DRN-2933752
The complaint
Mr B complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) and their failure to issue a
new debit card and pin to his local branch, as he requested.
What happened
On 29 September 2020, Mr B reported his card lost to Natwest. A new card was issued to
his home address. But this card didnt arrive. On 11 October, Mr B contacted Natwest and
reported the card stolen, as there had been several reports of post being stolen in his area.
So, he requested for a new card and pin to be sent to his local branch for him to collect, to
prevent any further risk of fraudulent activity on his account.
But Natwest issued this new card and pin to his home address, rather than his branch. And
again, the card and pin didnt arrive. On 26 October, Mr B contacted Natwest to make them
aware of this. The card and pin were cancelled, and a new card and pin was sent to Mr Bs
local branch correctly. Mr B collected this card and activated it shortly after. But Mr B wasnt
happy with this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr B was unhappy that Natwest had failed to send his new card and pin to branch as he
requested on 11 October. He requested this to ensure he received the card as he needed it
to hire equipment and a vehicle for an upcoming job. As the card and pin didnt arrive, Mr B
explained he was unable to attend a job due to begin on 26 October and had lost £850 in
earnings. So, he wanted Natwest to cover his loss of earnings.
Natwest didnt agree they should cover Mr Bs loss of earnings. But they agreed theyd failed
to order his new card and pin to Mr Bs local branch on 11 October and they paid Mr B £75
to recognise the inconvenience this caused. Mr B was unhappy with this response, so he
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She agreed Natwest had
failed to send Mr Bs card to his local branch as he requested. But she didnt think Natwest
should cover Mr Bs loss of earnings. She thought Mr B couldve done more to mitigate his
loss of earnings by transferring the necessary funds to someone else to hire the equipment
on his behalf. So, she thought the £75 Natwest offered was a fair offer and didnt think they
should do anything more. 
Mr B didnt agree. He explained hed asked others to hire the equipment and vehicle, but no
one was willing to do so. This was because they would then be responsible for the costs of
the equipment if it was damaged. And he explained if someone hired a vehicle for him, they
would be the one who would need to drive it. So, he didnt think he was able to mitigate his
loss of earnings and maintained his view that Natwest should cover them.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 May 2021, where I explained my intention to uphold the 
complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold the complaint. Ive focused my comments on what I think
is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its
affected what I think is the right outcome.
Its not in dispute that Natwest failed to issue Mr Bs new debit card and pin to his local
branch on 11 October 2020. Natwest have accepted they failed to do. I think its clear that Mr
B asked them to do so to prevent any risk of fraudulent activity on his account, after his first
replacement card had failed to arrive. And by failing to follow this request, Natwest have
contributed to the length of time Mr B has been without a debit card.
Natwest have offered Mr B £75 to recognise the inconvenience this caused. But Mr B
doesnt think this is a fair offer, as he missed a job due to not having a debit card available.
Without a debit card, Mr B has explained he was unable to hire the items and transport he
needed to fulfil the job he was due to attend. Natwest have suggested Mr B wouldve been
able to transfer funds that would allow someone else to hire the items and vehicle on his
behalf. But I dont agree.
I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr B to find someone to hire the items and vehicle.
This is because Mr B would also have been asking someone else to take on the risk of
covering the costs of the items if they were lost or damaged. And I dont think most people
would reasonably be willing to do so. And when a vehicle is rented, most rental companies
will only provide a vehicle to the person whose card is being used to pay for it. If not, an
additional amount would need to be paid to add Mr B as a named driver. And even in that
situation, the person who hired the vehicle would be responsible for any damage that may
be caused to it while its being used. Again, I dont think its reasonable to assume someone
else would be willing to take on that risk.
So, I do think that Mr B was unable to hire the necessary items and transport he needed to
attend the job on 26 October. I think a debit card wouldve been necessary, as most
companies require a card to authorise the hire of high value items. And having seen his
communication with the employer, I think its reasonable for me to assume Mr B wouldve
attended had he been able to do so. So, I do think Natwests error meant Mr B was unable to
attend the job.
As I think Natwests error led to Mr B being unable to attend the job, Ive then thought about
what I think Natwest should do to compensate him for this. Its important to note that any
recommendation I make is intended to place Mr B back in the position he wouldve been in,
had the error not occurred. Im unable to direct Natwest to take an action that would place Mr
B in a position of betterment, as we are an independent organisation that must ensure we
act fairly to both Natwest and Mr B.
Im aware Mr B thinks Natwest should pay him the £850 he wouldve earned had he
attended the job. But this £850 doesnt take into account the costs Mr B wouldve incurred in 
hiring the equipment he needed, plus the hire of a vehicle for transport. It also doesnt factor
in the fuel Mr B wouldve used to travel to and from the job site. And it also doesnt take into
account the tax and national insurance Mr B wouldve needed to pay, as well as any other
costs Mr B may have incurred such a daily living expenses whilst at work.
And Im unable to calculate for certain what these costs wouldve been. Mr B has provided
me with screenshots of the types of equipment he was intending to hire, and the costs of
this. But Im aware hire costs can change given the demand and availability of items, so I
cant say for certain this is how much he wouldve paid. 
And the same applies for the hire of a vehicle. Without evidence to show exactly was Mr B 
was due to pay on the day he was due to collect the equipment and transport, Im unable to calculate accurately exactly what Mr B wouldve earned from the job he was due to attend. 
Because of this, I cant fairly ask Natwest to pay this.
But I dont think the £75 Natwest have already paid Mr B is enough to compensate him for
the upset and frustration he wouldve felt when he realised hed be unable to attend the job. I
dont think it takes into consideration the embarrassment Mr B wouldve felt when he had to
let his client down, and the implication this may have had on his ability to secure future work
with the same client. Considering this, I think Natwest should pay Mr B a further £125,
bringing the total compensatory amount to £200.
I think this a fair offer, which considers Mr Bs loss of earnings and the emotional impact this
wouldve had at the time.
Responses
Natwest accepted the provisional decision and agreed to pay an additional £125 in 
compensation. Mr B didnt respond, so Ive assumed he reject the provisional decision 
without providing any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my initial conclusions. Natwest have agreed to 
pay Mr B a further £125, to recognise the upset and frustration Mr B wouldve felt when he 
realised he wouldnt be able to attend the job he had booked in. Mr B hasnt provided me 
with further comments to explain why he doesnt think this is a fair offer. So, in the absence 
of this, I think the additional £125 compensation is a fair one.
Putting things right
As explained above, I think Natwest should pay Mr B an additional £125 compensation, 
which considers his potential loss of earnings and the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused by their error. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint about National Westminster Bank 
Plc and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr B a further £125 to recognise the difficulties Mr B faced after not receiving his
new debit card to his local branch.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Josh HaskeyOmbudsman