DRN-3675357
The complaint
Mr S complains about the settlement figure he was given by Bamboo Limited.
What happened
Mr S took out a loan with Bamboo for around £5,000 in December 2018. Mr S complains that 
when he contacted Bamboo about repaying this loan early, the settlement figure which was 
quoted was too high. Mr S is unhappy that the payments he had been making on the loan 
had not been reducing the capital amount of the loan, but rather a significant proportion of 
the interest which was applicable to the loan.
Bamboo did not agree with Mr Ss complaint. It maintained it had offered the correct early 
settlement figure and had followed the relevant guidelines when doing so. Bamboo also 
offered to waive one monthly payment from the loan amount. 
Our investigator agreed with Bamboos response; and did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Our investigator was satisfied Bamboo had acted fairly when coming to the 
settlement figure as it had followed the relevant guidelines when doing so. Mr S disagreed 
with this outcome and maintains the figure is too high, and Bamboo has acted unfairly.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied this complaint should not be upheld. This is for the same 
reasons that our investigator gave to Mr S. 
I appreciate Mr Ss position and can understand why he is concerned that the remaining 
figure appears to be a high amount. However, Im satisfied that Bamboo has acted 
reasonably in this instance. 
Bamboo has explained to Mr S and our service how it reached the relevant settlement figure. 
It has demonstrated that it has followed the applicable guidelines; and Ive not seen any 
evidence that it has acted unreasonably when doing so. Nor have I seen any evidence that 
the settlement figure which has been reached is incorrect. 
Mr S is unhappy that the payments he did make did not reduce his capital amount but 
instead went proportionally more towards the interest element of the loan. Whilst I can 
understand his frustration, I dont find this unusual. Most loans work in this manner, and Ive 
not seen any information which demonstrates that the interest which Bamboo has charged 
has been unfairly or incorrectly applied.
So whilst I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by this outcome, Im satisfied that Bamboo 
has acted reasonably in this instance. 
My final decision
Bamboo Limited has already agreed to waive one monthly payment from the loan. Im 
satisfied this is a fair outcome to the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman