DRN-3195192
The complaint
 A company which I refer to as M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc treated it unfairly when 
they declined to reimburse the loss it sustained due to currency movement when it reversed 
of a foreign currency transfer. 
In bringing this complaint M is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mrs W. 
   
What happened
 M operated two accounts with HSBC  a USD account and a business current account. 
On 29 June 2020 using its business internet banking App (BIB) Mrs W transferred just over 
$100,000 from Ms USD account to its business current account so that she could pay one of 
Ms suppliers. 
Mrs W said that after carrying out the transfer she checked the business current account to 
see whether the funds had been successfully credited. But as that didnt appear to be the 
case and neither could she see anything to indicate the payment was pending, Mrs W said 
she repeated the transfer; albeit this time she used a different process known as HSBCnet. 
A slightly smaller amount was transferred, and the amount did appear in the business 
current account when Mrs W checked.  
The following day  30 June 2020 - the first transfer that Mrs W had made completed. But 
due to insufficiency of funds in the USD account, it became overdrawn and HSBC asked Mrs 
W to deposit funds into the USD account to remedy the position.  At first Mrs W asked HSBC 
to cancel the first transfer, but the bank told her that wasnt possible because the transaction 
had already completed, and the funds credited to the business current account. Mrs W 
therefore, returned the payment from the business current account to the USD account. 
However, when she did so, due to the fluctuation in foreign exchange rates M lost over 
$2,000 in the process. 
M therefore complained to HSBC. On its behalf Mrs W said the reason she carried out the 
second transfer was because the business current account did not indicate the first one was 
either completed or pending. And, she didnt think HSBC should in any event have 
processed the first transfer the next day - 30 June when by doing so the USD account would 
become overdrawn when no such arrangement was in place.  
HSBC didnt think theyd done anything wrong. The said the error that occurred in this case 
was made by Mrs W rather than the bank. According to HSBC after carrying out the first 
transfer, Mrs W should have checked the business current accounts Activity History which 
would have confirmed the transfer was in fact pending. They said Mrs W looked in the wrong 
place. Alternatively, the bank argued, that before carrying out the second transfer Mrs W 
should at least have spoken to the bank if she was unsure whether that first transfer had 
gone through successfully. 
HSBC maintained that both transfers were authorised by Mrs W and so, were processed 
appropriately by the bank. On that basis HSBC didnt believe they acted unfairly when they 
declined to reimburse M for the currency exchange loss it sustained due to the movement in 
rates when the funds were returned to Ms USD account.  
M didnt agree with HSBCs conclusions and referred its complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong when on 30 June they 
processed Mrs Ws first transfer. He believed that if in doubt, before carrying out the second 
transfer Mrs W ought reasonably to have checked with HSBC whether or not the first one 
had completed successfully. 
M didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and has asked an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. On Ms behalf Mrs W has repeated the essence of Ms case. In particular, that 
HSBC shouldnt have processed the first transfer, when by doing so the USD account would 
be tipped into overdraft but had no arranged overdraft facility. She believed that but for 
HSBCs action the events that unfolded and the loss M sustained as a consequence 
wouldnt have occurred. 
Furthermore, Mrs W says HSBC knew it had acted wrongly because during a phone call with 
the bank in July 2020 it promised to refund the $2,000 USD that M had lost plus £100 for 
inconvenience. She said later HSBC reneged on their offer. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In essence Mrs W believes that HSBC are ultimately responsible for Ms loss for two main 
reasons:  
it was not clear from the on-line information on the business account that the transfer 
shed made had been successful which in turn prompted her to carry out the second.; 
and 
the bank allowed the first transfer to go through even though there were insufficient 
funds in the USD account and no arranged overdraft facility in place. 
Ive considered each in turn. 
The information displayed on BIB after the first transfer
The bank said on 29 June when the first transfer was made using BIB, Mrs W would have 
needed to look at the Activity History on the business account in order to view the status of 
the payment. The payment status would not have been visible in Pending which is where 
Mrs W had in fact looked.  
HSBC have provided me with a screen shot of the Activity History for 29 June which shows 
the transfer as well as the following summary:
Well initiate the transfer on the transfer date shown. Please note, the dates may change if 
there are any public holidays for the currency  
Its likely had Mrs W looked in the right place, any doubts she might have had as to whether 
the transfer had been successful would have been allayed. It is unfortunate that she didnt 
because the subsequent events would very likely have been avoided.  But I cannot reasonably hold HSBC responsible for that omission. I do not find that HSBC misled Mrs W 
by displaying incorrect information regarding the status of the transfer which in turn caused 
Mrs W to initiate the second.  
HSBC allowed the second transfer even though this caused the account to go into overdraft.  
HSBC said whereas the second transfer Mrs W made through HSBCnet debited Ms account 
immediately, the BIB transfer had triggered a fraud check which after successful completion 
meant it debited Ms account the following day  30 June 2020. HSBC acknowledges that 
the second transfer didnt trigger the same fraud check which meant it completed the same 
day. But HSBC say this can happen in circumstances where, for example, a customer has 
made a payment to the same beneficiary on HSBCnet previously.
That being said Im aware that what is at the centre of Ms case, however, is that if the bank 
had declined to honour the first transfer on 30 June because the result would tip the USD 
account into overdraft when none had been arranged , the issues that unfolded 
subsequently would not have happened. In other words, M would not have needed to return 
the payment to the USD account and so wouldnt have incurred $2,000 loss due to currency 
fluctuation.
 Ive thought about this very carefully. In this connection, HSBCs case is that although a 
foreign currency account isnt generally allowed to go overdrawn, that doesnt mean that it 
cant. And it has referred me to the clause 18 of the accounts terms and conditions which 
says:
Even if you dont have enough money or an arranged overdraft, we might make the 
payment by allowing an unarranged overdraft. Any payment that we cant make will be 
returned unpaid
I bear in mind the transfer was instructed by Mrs W. And Im satisfied that the condition 
highlighted did allow HSBC to carry out the transfer as instructed at their discretion even 
though it resulted in the USD account becoming overdrawn. And bearing in mind the 
transaction was a transfer between two accounts held by M, its difficult to conclude the bank 
acted unfairly when it exercised its discretion. 
Unfortunately, returning one of the transfers to the USD account meant it would be subject to 
any movement in foreign exchange rates that might have occurred in the interim. But I do not 
find that HSBC were to blame for that. I am satisfied therefore HSBC did not treat M unfairly 
when they declined to compensate it for loss it sustained arising from the adverse movement 
in foreign currency exchange rates.  
Promised compensation 
Unfortunately, M is unable to recall the actual date the conversation with the bank took 
place. But in any event, the case was referred to this service, for an impartial consideration. 
So, it then became a matter for us to look into it fairly and impartially and decide whether 
HSBC were at fault and if so to compensate M appropriately. But since I have not found that 
HSBC have been at fault in this case, I havent been persuaded M should be awarded 
compensation. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman