DRN-2567580
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd (Lowell) wrote to an incorrect address about an 
account it was asking him to repay, causing him distress. He is also unhappy that it made a 
mistake when responding to a subject access request, delaying the response.
  
What happened
In October 2019 Lowell purchased a debt from another company, which it understands is 
owed by Mr B.
Lowell has said that, after initial correspondence was returned undelivered, it attempted to 
trace Mr B. In doing so it obtained address information that it thought mayve related to Mr B. 
So, in January 2020 it sent a letter to that address, addressed to Mr B, about the outstanding 
balance, asking him to get in touch with it to arrange repayment.
Mr B complained to Lowell shortly after this. He said that the address it had used belonged 
to his father, who had opened the letter. This had in turn, he said, caused significant tension 
and a breakdown in their relationship, causing Mr B a great deal of distress. As part of his 
complaint Mr B made a subject access request (SAR).
In response to the complaint, Lowell said it had traced the address using its standard 
processes. But it acknowledged that the information it had wasnt strong enough to confirm 
Mr B lived at the address it had written to, so it said it shouldnt have done so. To address 
this, it offered Mr B £50 for the upset caused  noting that the letter had been addressed 
specifically to him, so it wasnt responsible for this being opened by a third party.
Lowell responded to the SAR but, due to a typing error in entering Mr Bs email address, it 
sent this to the wrong email address. This meant that Mr B had to contact it again to chase 
the response. In recognition of this error Lowell offered a further £75 for the trouble caused. 
Mr B didnt feel the response by Lowell, particularly in relation to the address it had written to 
incorrectly, was fair as he didnt feel it had been truthful about how this information was 
obtained. Mr B also didnt think the redress offered reflected the upset that had been caused. 
So, he asked our service to look into the complaint.
One of our investigators considered matters. He said that Lowell had acknowledged it had 
made a mistake when responding to the SAR, causing a delay. And that it had written to the 
traced address in error. So even though the letter was addressed to Mr B, without its initial 
error none of this wouldve happened. In light of this and the considerable upset he felt had 
been caused to Mr B, he recommended that Lowell pay him a total of £350 for the upset 
caused (including the £125 already offered). 
Lowell did not agree with the investigators opinion as it said it didnt think the 
recommendation was proportionate to the mistakes made. As a result, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, in relation to the SAR made by Mr B as part of his initial complaint, Lowell has 
acknowledged that its response was delayed as it initially entered Mr Bs email address 
incorrectly  and the first attempt to send this information was returned undelivered. It has 
said this was due to a typing error by one of its members of staff. And I havent seen 
anything to the contrary that leads me to think the error was deliberate. Lowell has also 
explained that the information sent, which was returned as undelivered, was password 
protected anyway. And that the password was sent separately to Mr B by post.  This was to 
protect against the information being opened by third parties. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that the information was accessed by anyone that shouldnt have been able to. But I 
dont doubt that the delay caused, as a result of this error which Lowell has acknowledged 
making, was frustrating for Mr B, particularly given the nature of the complaint he had 
already made was about Lowell using incorrect contact information.
Turning to the address trace and the letter sent, Mr B has said that he does not feel Lowell 
has been truthful about how this information was obtained. Lowell has explained that this 
was gathered via its standard tracing methods, using information provided to it by credit 
reference agencies. Mr B has said hes had information from credit reference agencies that 
shows this is incorrect. But the information provided to a business as part of searching and 
tracing isnt necessarily the same as that held on a persons credit file, which may explain 
this discrepancy. Regardless, based on what Ive currently seen, I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Lowell acted incorrectly in obtaining this information.
Lowell has, however, acknowledged in its response to Mr B, and our service, that it should 
not have written to the address in question. It has accepted that the information it had was 
not strong enough to confirm Mr B lived at that address. So, writing to it was an error. What 
is therefore left for me to decide is what a fair way to address this, and the error with the 
response to the SAR, is.
Mr B has explained that these issues, particularly the letter being sent to his fathers address 
incorrectly, has caused him significant upset. He has explained that this has led to a 
breakdown in his relationship with his father which has in turn had an effect on his children 
and on his own health. Mr Bs testimony about this, and the impact this issue has had on 
him, has been consistent throughout his complaint and, in my view, persuasive. And I think 
this issue has caused significant distress to him.
Lowell says the letter was addressed to Mr B, and the person that opened it, while sharing a 
family name did so incorrectly. And I understand its point. But given the parties did share a 
family name, I dont think it is necessarily unreasonable that the letter was opened by the 
other party. And more importantly, as our investigator explained, if Lowell hadnt written to 
that address in the first place  which it accepts it should not have done  the situation 
wouldnt have arisen, and the distress suffered by Mr B wouldnt have been incurred.
Ive thought carefully about what both parties have said in this complaint when deciding what 
I think is fair and reasonable. And having done so, while I acknowledge only one letter was 
sent incorrectly, and I dont think this was done by Lowell with the intention of causing 
distress, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I think the result of this error was 
that Mr B was caused a great deal of upset, that he otherwise wouldnt have been. I think it 
is appropriate that Lowell compensate him for this. And taking everything into account, I 
think, as our investigator suggested, a payment of £350, less the £125 offered previously if 
this has already been paid, is a fair way to resolve matters.  
My final decisionFor the reasons given above I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
To put things right Lowell Portfolio I Ltd should pay Mr B £350, less any of the £125 redress 
offered previously that has already been paid to him.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman