DRN-4295645
The complaint
Miss M and Mr S complain about Acasta European Insurance Company Limiteds offer to 
settle a claim made under their furniture warranty.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
In March 2019, Miss M and Mr S took out a five-year furniture warranty policy underwritten 
by Acasta to cover a sofa theyd purchased. The policy covers accidental damage to the 
fabric, staining and structural defects.
They made a claim in March 2022 after accidental damage to the footstool which was part of 
the sofa suite.
Acasta accepted the claim and sent out a technician. They decided the fabric cover of the 
footstool needed to be replaced altogether. They said this would arrive from the 
manufacturer in around 6-8 weeks. This was confirmed by email to Miss M and Mr S in late 
March 2022.
Miss M and Mr S chased things up around seven weeks later and were told the 
manufacturer needed a sample of the material from the footstool. They were understandably 
frustrated that they werent told this at the outset, that no progress had been made and that 
things only started moving because they chased. Nonetheless, they sent the sample as 
requested.
Just after this, Miss M and Mr S say Acasta told them they were declining the claim because 
the footstool wasnt part of the sofa. This is odd because the stool is specifically mentioned 
in the policy certificate.
Eventually, after Miss M and Mr S contacted the manufacturer for confirmation, Acasta 
accepted the footstool was covered.
Acasta then wrote to Miss M and Mr S to say the manufacturer had ceased production of the 
particular model of sofa. They said that meant the footstools fabric couldnt be replaced. And 
they offered to settle the claim in a different way.
In essence, they offered a credit note with the retailer for over £1,100 or a cash settlement of 
just over £500. This reflected the policy terms relating to replacement of a damaged item. 
These say the maximum Acasta will pay to settle a claim is the original purchase price.
And they said this would bring the policy to an end, again in line with the terms and 
conditions, because the sofa had been replaced entirely.
Miss M and Mr S werent happy with this settlement offer. They say they couldnt replace 
their sofa with a similar one from the original retailer or elsewhere for the money being 
offered by Acasta.
They said theyd made enquiries with the manufacturer and their model of sofa had been in 
stock up to May 2022. The assumption being that the footstool or the footstool fabric would 
have been in supply up to around that date.
And so, if Acasta had dealt with the claim in a timely manner  and as they originally said 
they would in March 2022  the footstool or the fabric would have been replaced and their 
sofa would be intact and not needing replacement.
Miss M and Mr S complained to Acasta. They apologised for the delays and offered £200 in 
compensation for Miss M and Mr Ss trouble and upset. But they said their settlement offer 
was correct and would stand, given that they were offering the maximum amount allowed 
under the policy terms.
Miss M and Mr S werent happy with this and brought their complaint to us. They think the 
delays meant theyre now unable to replace their sofa.
They want Acasta to pay the full cost for a replacement of their sofa with a similar model. 
They want compensation for the financial and moral stress theyve suffered. And they want 
Acasta to compensate them for the loss of around two years of the warranty which would 
have been remaining had the claim been settled by repairs to the footstool.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Acasta should be asked to do any more. He 
thought the settlement offer was fair given that it was at the maximum afforded by the policy. 
He thought the policy had ended in the way set out in the terms and conditions. And he 
thought the £200 compensation was reasonable given the extent of the delays and 
inconvenience experienced by Miss M and Mr S.
Miss M and Mr S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view, I issued a provisional decision. This 
allowed both Acasta and Miss M and Mr S an opportunity to provide further evidence or 
information and/or to comment on my thinking before I issue my final decision in this case.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt in my mind that Acasta made errors in the way they handled this 
claim. Theres no real dispute about that given that Acasta have admitted it and 
offered compensation to Miss M and Mr S.
To be clear, those errors led to delays from the outset. Acasta didnt ask Miss M and 
Mr S to provide a sample of fabric until they were chased for progress  almost two 
months after the claim was made. And they then unnecessarily and unreasonably 
questioned the validity of the claim, causing further delays.
If those delays hadnt occurred, its not unreasonable to suppose that the 
replacement fabric would have been provided within 6-8 weeks, as Acastas engineer 
promised when he visited to inspect the sofa.
And in that case, its reasonable to assume Miss M and Mr S would not have had to 
replace their sofa  the footstool would have been re-covered. They would also still have had two years cover remaining on a five-year warranty which cost them £229.
In my view its an error here to apply the policy limits. If Acasta were simply settling a 
claim, then of course, those limits would apply.
But theyre not simply settling a claim here. What were asking them to do is cover 
the knock-on costs incurred by Miss M and Mr S solely as a consequence of Acastas 
errors  and the subsequent delays.
Those costs are the cost of having to replace their sofa plus the cost of having to buy 
a new warranty which will cover two years that Miss M and Mr S might have 
expected to benefit from had Acasta not made the errors they did.
In short, Acastas errors have put Miss M and Mr S in the position they found 
themselves in  with a need to entirely replace a sofa with inadequate funds from 
their claim to cover that cost. And without a warranty on whatever sofa they choose 
to replace their current sofa.
That being the case, Im minded to say that Acasta should refund two-fifths of the 
original cost of the warranty (two-fifths of £229). And replace Miss M and Mr Ss sofa 
with a similar model or pay for its replacement with a similar model.
It would be reasonable to suggest Acasta should agree a replacement model with 
Miss M and Mr S and then purchase and deliver it. Suffice to say, it should be a 
model with similar specifications, fabric and size to the original.
If Miss M and Mr S dont wish to accept that, Acasta should pay a cash settlement to 
Miss M and Mr S. This should be the same amount it would cost Acasta to purchase 
and deliver a replacement as set out above.
I can understand that Miss M and Mr S have found this whole episode very 
frustrating and stressful, especially when Acasta delayed the originally planned repair 
and then when they said they were declining the claim altogether.
That said, bearing in mind that the actual impact on Miss M and Mr S was that they 
had a damaged footstool for a period of time, Im satisfied that the £200 
compensation offered by Acasta was fair and reasonable.
Its not entirely clear to me whether that £200 has been paid or was offered and 
declined. If it has been paid, clearly Acasta dont need to pay any more 
compensation. If it hasnt been paid as yet, they should pay it now.
So, in summary, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint and to require Acasta to 
replace the sofa with a similar one (or pay for its replacement), refund two-fifths of the 
premium and pay Miss M and Mr S £200 in compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Miss M and Mr S didnt provide any further information, evidence or thoughts in response to 
my provisional decision. I assume thats because they agree with it.
Acasta commented in some detail, for which I am grateful.
They agreed that they should refund Miss M and Mr S for the remaining time on the 
warranty, so paying them £91.60 (two-fifths of the original £229 premium).They said they still thought their offer to Miss M and Mr S relating to replacement of the sofa 
was fair. 
First, theyd decided not to subtract from the amount offered the cost of a previous claim  
which they would usually be entitled to do under the terms of the policy.
And second, our services usual approach, if part of a matching set is damaged and cant be 
replaced with an exact match, is to ask the insurer to pay for the specific item damaged in 
full, but to pay half the cost of replacing any undamaged matching items. In which case, we 
should have asked them to pay for the footstool and half the cost of the sofa.
They also clarified that theyd sent a cheque to Miss M and Mr S for the £200 they offered in 
compensation, but that it hadnt yet been cashed. Theyre happy to pay the £200 again if the 
existing cheque is returned or cancelled.
Acasta went on to say that if I dont accept their further arguments around the settlement, it 
would nonetheless be difficult - and possibly unfair to Miss M and Mr S  to maintain my 
position that Acasta should replace the sofa with a similar one.
They pointed out that fashions change and its now difficult, if not impossible, to identify a 
similar model to Miss M and Mr Ss sofa. Whether any candidate sofa met the criteria I tried 
to set out would be a matter of subjective judgement - and might lead to further delays in 
settling the matter. 
They also pointed out that it would also make it difficult to assess how much they would have 
to pay Miss M and Mr S if they replaced the sofa themselves.
Acasta suggested that a fair alternative might be to increase their initial offer (£1,199  which 
was what Miss M and Mr S paid for the sofa) in line with inflation  using the Bank of 
England calculator. 
This would come to £1,460.21, to which Acasta were happy to add delivery costs at £80, 
bringing the overall total to £1,540.21. Theyd then add the £200 compensation and the 
£91.60 refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M and Mr S havent responded to my provisional decision, so theyve given me no 
cause to think again about the proposed compensation (£200) and the premium part-refund 
(£91.60). Im glad that Acasta have also agreed that those figures are fair and reasonable.
Acasta havent given me any good reason to change my basic stance on this complaint.
They had already agreed not to subtract from their offer the amount it cost them to carry out 
a previous repair. That was for good reason - and it was fair and reasonable for them to do 
so.
I can see their argument about matching sets. However, I dont think in this case the items 
in question are a sofa and an entirely separate but matching footstool. 
The footstool appears to be an integral part of the sofa. It may be moveable, but its clearly 
intended to be used to extend the sofa and allow the user to put their feet up, whilst sitting on the sofa. So, I dont think the matching sets argument holds any water in this particular 
case.
I do however think Acasta have  very fairly  tried to suggest a means by which we might 
avoid a potential situation where Miss M and Mr S cant agree with Acasta what an adequate 
or equivalent match for their sofa looks like in the current market.
I am very keen to avoid the possibility that Miss M and Mr S cant or wont accept any 
suggested replacements from Acasta  because theyre not a sufficiently close equivalent to 
their sofa  whilst Acasta wont accept Miss M and Mr Ss preferred alternative because its 
too expensive.
That said, I think its important that Miss M and Mr S arent put in a position where they cant 
reasonably replace the sofa with something equally useful and pleasant.
The increased settlement figure in line with inflation seems to me to be an elegant way to 
avoid the possibility of a further impasse. And its clearly fair to Miss M and Mr S to give 
them what they paid for the sofa - but at todays prices.
So, Im satisfied thats a fair and reasonable way to conclude this matter if it cant be 
concluded in the manner already suggested. Ill clarify what I mean by this below.
Putting things right
Acasta should now pay Miss M and Mr S £91.60 as a part-refund of their policy premium.
They should also pay Miss M and Mr S £200 in compensation for their trouble and upset, 
assuming Miss M and Mr S return the previous cheque issued by Acasta for this amount or 
in some other way satisfy Acasta that they wont or cant cash that cheque in future.
Acasta must also replace Miss M and Mr Ss sofa with a suitable equivalent model, if the two 
parties can agree on that within a reasonable timeframe. Acasta would also, in that case, 
cover delivery costs.
If the two parties cant agree on an acceptable replacement, Acasta should either issue a 
credit note  for use with any of their suppliers  for £1,540.21 or pay Miss M and Mr S in 
cash the cost of that credit note to themselves. Miss M and Mr S will understand that if they 
take this option, this will be a slightly lower figure.
I should be clear that Im not suggesting that Miss M and Mr S enter into a long process of 
negotiation with Acasta about a replacement sofa. If they can find a suitable sofa from 
Acastas suppliers now for less than £1,540.21, I assume theyll be happy to take it.
If not and they want to take the credit note to put towards the cost of a slightly more 
expensive sofa from Acastas suppliers, thats up to them.
And if they dont wish to take the credit note, they can tell Acasta to pay them in cash the 
cost (to Acasta) of the credit note. Acasta have previously told us that the cost to them of a 
credit note worth £1,199 would be £1,079.10. Im expecting that the cost to Acasta of a credit 
note for the £1,540.21 would be a similar proportion of the overall value of the note.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss M and Mr Ss complaint.Acasta European Insurance Company Limited must:
pay Miss M and Mr S £91.60 as a part-refund of their policy premium;
pay Miss M and Mr S £200 in compensation for their trouble and upset (assuming the 
previous cheque is returned or cancelled); and 
replace their sofa with a model Miss M and Mr S agree to; or
provide a credit note for use with their suppliers to the value of £1,540.21; or
provide a cash settlement at the amount it would cost them to purchase the credit 
note mentioned above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman