DRN-3973636
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car acquired with finance from 247 Money Group Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In June 2021 Mr R was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
247. At the point of supply the car was around 12 years old and was advertised as having 
covered around 83,900 miles.
The cash price of the car was £7,290 with monthly instalments of £315.97. 
In July 2021 some issues were repaired under warranty. 
In March 2022 the car broke down. It was recovered to a  third party garage who said there 
was an oil leak and the engine had failed.
Mr R complained to 247 and asked to reject the car.
247 said that because the issue with the engine had occurred more than 6 months after the 
point of supply, it was up to Mr R to provide evidence to show that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. 247 arranged an independent inspection of the 
car.
The inspection was completed in May 2022. The engineer said there was an oil leak and that 
the engine had failed. The engineer concluded that the fault wouldnt have been present or 
developing at the point of supply, taking into account the time and mileage elapsed.
Based on the findings of the independent inspection, 247 said it wasnt upholding Mr Rs 
complaint about the quality of the car. It looked into a mileage discrepancy and 
acknowledged that the actual mileage of the car at the point of supply had been higher than 
advertised. It compensated Mr R for this.
Mr R remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although Mr R had experienced 
some issues with the car when he got it, there was no evidence to link the oil leak to the 
engine failure, and no evidence to suggest that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. The investigator said the compensation paid for the mileage discrepancy was fair.
Mr R didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account things such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition, and other things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr R was 12 years old, and had covered significant mileage, so Id 
expect to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs more often than say, a 
brand new car. In order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was 
a fault with the car at the point of supply which made it of unsatisfactory quality, as opposed 
to a fault caused by general wear and tear.
Under the relevant legislation, where a car isnt of satisfactory quality in the first 6 months, its 
assumed that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply unless the business can 
show otherwise. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer  
in this case Mr R  to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed all of the available evidence about the issues with the car. I can see that 
repairs were carried out in July 2021.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there is a fault with the car. I say this because the 
independent inspection report says that the engine has failed.
However, just because theres a fault doesnt mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Its up to Mr R to show that there was a fault at the point of supply which 
caused the engine to fail.
Mr R has said there was an oil leak when he got the car and that this wasnt repaired in July 
2021 when it should have been. Ive reviewed the repair quite dated July 2021 and I can see 
that it mentions an oil leak. The repair invoice (issued after the repairs had been carried out) 
doesnt say anything about an oil leak. Based on the available information I cant be certain 
whether the oil leak was repaired in July 2021 or not.
In order to be persuaded that it was an oil leak which caused the engine to fail. I would need 
to see conclusive evidence which states this. The independent inspection says there is an oil 
leak but doesnt say that this is what caused the engine to fail.
If the oil leak was present at the point of supply, and if the oil leak was the cause of the 
engine failure. I would have expected the engine to fail much sooner than it did. I say this 
because Mr R had owned the car for almost 10 months when the engine failed and had 
covered around 13,000 miles during this time. I dont think it wouldve been possible to drive 
the car for this length of time if there was an oil leak serious enough to cause the engine to 
fail.
Theres no evidence to link the oil leak to the engine failure. The independent inspection 
report states that the oil leak wouldnt have caused the engine to fail, and that the engine 
failure isnt related to the previous repairs in July 2021. Taking this into account, I think its 
more likely that the engine failure was caused by wear and tear.
Ive thought about the other issues Mr R experienced with the car. I appreciate that some of 
these were repaired in July 2021, and some werent. Having considered the nature of the 
issues, I think these are wear and tear issues which a reasonable person would expect on a 
car of this age and mileage. 
Theres no evidence to link any of the issues Mr R experienced with the car after he purchased it with the subsequent failure of the engine. I cant fairly conclude that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply because the issues at the point of supply 
were wear and tear issues.
I understand that Mr R is frustrated by the issues hes experienced with the car. However, 
having considered all the available information, there isnt enough evidence to link the oil 
leak  or any other issue  with the engine failure. Because of this Im unable to say that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. I wont be asking 247 to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman