DRN-2937426
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the interest rate Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) is proposing 
to charge him for using his overdraft. He says its unfair that he will be charged an Annual 
Percentage Rate (APR) of 49.9% when the standard rate is 39.9%.
Background
In 2020, Halifax wrote to its customers to explain that it would be moving to a new overdraft 
pricing structure based on an APR. Mr A was told that the APR that would be applied to his 
overdraft would be 49.9%. Mr A complained to Halifax saying this rate was significantly 
higher than the amount some other customers were receiving. 
Halifax didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said it considered a number of factors when 
deciding which APR to apply on an overdraft and it was satisfied that Mr A wasnt treated 
unfairly. Mr A remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So 
while Mr A is unhappy with what he considers to be an unfair increase in Halifaxs overdraft 
interest rate, Im afraid that this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Halifaxs charging structure changes per se, it wont have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr A if it implemented these changes unfairly. Mr A says 
that the changes have been implemented unfairly here as he has been treated as a higher 
risk customer even though he has an impeccable track record and an excellent credit score. 
He believes hes a good credit risk and cant understand why he hasnt been offered the 
lower interest rate. 
But while Mr A may be keen to get a better understanding of why he hasnt been offered the 
lower interest rate its, ultimately, up to Halifax how it assesses what interest rate to offer its 
customers. Thats a business decision for it to make. And its not for our service to tell 
Halifax how to assess application or say it should have offered a lower interest rate in a 
particular set of circumstances. 
Halifax says it considered a number of factors when making its decision including, amongst 
other things, Mr As relationship with the bank, credit file data, his existing overdraft limit and 
his usage of the facility. These are factors which are typically considered by most, if not, all 
lenders when deciding to offer credit and on what terms. So I dont think that theres anything 
here to indicate that Mr A has been discriminated against. 
I understand Mr As strength of feeling on this matter and why he might be unhappy at 
having to pay a higher interest rate than some other customers. But as Mr A isnt overdrawn 
(or at least he wasnt at the time the new rate (which I understand is lower than what he was 
paying before) was introduced) and the facility has a small credit limit, Im satisfied hes able 
to stop using it and have it removed, if he doesnt want to accept the new pricing structure. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Halifax implemented these 
changes in a way that treated Mr A unfairly. And as the terms and conditions permitted 
Halifax to make these changes in the first place, it follows that Im not upholding Mr As 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman