DRN-3132394
The complaint
Mr W complains about Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (QFL) and the 
service hes received after instructing them to pursue several claims for mis-sold Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2019, Mr W authorised QFL to pursue several claims for mis-sold PPI against different 
lenders. QFL submitted these claims on Mr Ws behalf and he received several PPI refunds.
But Mr W was unhappy about the service he received from QFL and in particular, the way 
they chased him for payment of their settlement fees associated with each claim. So, he 
raised a complaint.
Mr W was unhappy that QFL had invoiced him for a settlement fee seven months after hed 
received his PPI refund from Lender B. He explained hed lost his job at the time he received 
the refund in September 2020 and has used the refund to pay outstanding debts. So, he 
explained he was unable to afford QFLs settlement fee, which they invoiced him for in April 
2021. Mr W was also unhappy that QFL had continued to chase him for their settlement fee 
due relating to his refund from Lender S when hed made them aware hed not yet received 
his PPI refund. He thought QFL had chased him for payment unfairly, contacting him almost 
daily with the written correspondence being threatening and harassing.
Mr W was unhappy that QFL had continued to chase him for their settlement fee relating to a 
PPI refund from Lender H, even though hed made it clear to them he hadnt received the 
refund. And he was unhappy Lender H wouldnt discuss this with him directly as hed used 
QFLs services.
Mr W was also unhappy with the way he was spoke to by QFLs handlers during the time he 
was being chased for fees. Because of the above, Mr W wanted QFL to close his remaining 
accounts and waive any associated fees.
QFL responded and upheld the complaint. They recognised the delay in invoicing Mr W for 
their settlement fee for the claim with Lender B. But they didnt think this was their fault as 
they didnt receive the final decision letter from Lender B at the time. They explained theyd 
invoiced Mr W as soon as they were made aware the claim had been successful. And as 
they felt the refund was paid due to the claim they submitted, they thought they were fair to 
charge their settlement fee. They also explained Lender Hs decision not to speak to Mr W 
wasnt their responsibility and explained information provided to them by Lender H showed 
the refund had been issued. So again, they thought they were fair when charging their 
settlement fee.
But they recognised theyd made a mistake when placing a hold on chaser letters for Mr Ws 
claim with Lender S. And they accepted Mr W had received letters chasing payment when 
theyd agreed not to send these and that this wouldve been upsetting and frustrating for Mr 
W. So, as Mr Ws settlement fee for the claim with Lender B remaining outstanding, they 
reduced this by £400 to recognise any upset Mr W had been caused. And they invited Mr W 
to complete an income and expenditure form to arrange an affordable payment plan if Mr W 
was unable to pay the new, reduced invoice. Mr W remained unhappy with this response, so 
he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought QFL were fair to 
invoice Mr W for their settlement fee with Lender B as the work they completed led to the 
refund he received. And she didnt think it was QFLs fault they werent notified about this by 
Lender B in 2020. She also didnt think it was QFLs fault Lender H had failed to pay Mr W 
and recognised Lender H confirmed it had been paid to them. But she didnt recognise QFL 
had chased Mr W for payment when theyd agreed not to do so and she did think this 
wouldve been frustrating and upsetting for Mr W. But she thought the £400 QFL offered by 
way of an outstanding fee reduction was fair to recognise this, so she didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree. He re-iterated the points he made previously and explained how his 
dealing with QFL had impacted his health and led to him being prescribed medication. He 
maintained his view that QFL had acted unfairly and should close any remaining accounts, 
waiving any associated fees. As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr W. Im aware Mr W is in 
financial difficulty following the loss of his job towards the end of 2020 and I appreciate the 
upset and worry this wouldve caused. I recognise how this upset and worry has impacted 
his health and why he feels QFL added to this. I can also understand why Mr W would use 
the PPI refund he received from Lender B to clear some of his outstanding debt to alleviate 
his immediate financial concerns at that time. And I recognise why hed dispute QFLs 
decision to invoice him for a settlement fee a significant period of time after hed received, 
and spent, this refund. But for me to say QFL have done something wrong in relation to this, 
Id need to be satisfied it was their error that led to the delay in invoicing and that asking for a 
settlement fee after the delay was unfair. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
It's not in dispute that Mr W authorised QFL to pursue PPI claims on his behalf against all of 
the lenders Ive referred to. And when Mr W signed the Letters of Authority to allow QFL to 
do so, he was also agreeing to be bound by the terms and conditions of the agreement.
These terms and conditions explain that where a claim is successful, {QFL} will charge a 
contingency fee of no more than 24% inc. VAT. So, where a lender has made Mr W a PPI 
refund offer, I think QFL were able to invoice Mr W for their settlement fee in line with these 
terms.
Mr W has confirmed he received a PPI refund from Lender B in September 2020. And Ive 
seen this refund was paid due to the claim QFL submitted. So, I think theyre entitled to 
charge their fee in line with their terms and conditions.But Im aware QFL didnt send Mr W their invoice until April 2021, some seven months later. 
QFL have explained Lender B didnt make them aware a refund had been paid until they 
invoiced Mr W for their fee. Ive seen QFLs system notes which show they received 
notification of this through a spreadsheet at this time. While Im unable to speculate as to 
why Lender B didnt make QFL aware in September 2020, I dont think this is the fault of 
QFL as Im satisfied they submitted Mr Ws claim to the lender with all the correct 
documentation. 
I am aware this led to a seven-month delay in invoicing, during which time Mr W had spent 
the refund he received and, due to his financial circumstances, was no longer able to pay it 
back. And I recognise the upset and worry hed have been caused when he received the 
invoice from QFL. 
But I think QFL invoiced Mr W as soon as they were reasonably aware a refund had been 
paid to him. As Ive explained, I dont think it was QFLs fault they werent made aware of this 
in September 2020. And from QFLs system notes, and call recordings Ive received, Im 
satisfied Mr W was in contact with QFL around the time the PPI refund was paid by Lender 
B. So, as Mr W instructed QFL to pursue this claim and as Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
Mr W was pursuing the PPI claim himself, I think he shouldve been reasonably aware the 
refund had resulted from the work QFL completed and realised a fee would need to be paid.
I recognise Mr W says he received a letter from Lender B in May 2020, before the PPI 
refund was paid, that said there was no PPI identified on his account. But I havent seen a 
copy of this and nor have QFL. While I appreciate this may have created some confusion, Mr 
W receive a PPI refund after he says this letter was received. As QFL were instructed as his 
representative, Id have expected Mr W to contact QFL to discuss this if he was concerned 
at the conflicting information provided by Lender B. But crucially, it was Lender B providing 
this information, not QFL. 
So, although I recognise there was a delay in an invoice being sent, I dont think this was the 
fault of QFL. And because of this, I think theyve acted fairly and their fee remains payable. 
But due to the length of time between Mr W receiving the refund and the invoice being sent, 
Mr W has spent the refund he received and is unable to pay the settlement fee in one lump 
sum. I think QFL should act positively and sympathetically towards Mr Ws situation and 
work with him to agree an affordable repayment plan which takes into consideration his 
current financial situation. Im happy to see QFL have already taken steps to offer this option 
to Mr W.
Ive then thought about Mr Ws concerns regarding the service QFL provided him when 
chasing him for payment for several claims. And QFL have accepted they failed to place a 
hold on collections activity when they told Mr W they would do so and to recognise the upset 
this caused, reduced Mr Ws outstanding invoice by £400. As QFL have accepted their 
service fell below a reasonable standard, I dont intend to discuss this further. Instead, Ive 
thought about whether the offer theyve made is a fair one.
I think its clear Mr W because frustrated at the amount of contact he received chasing him 
for payment of several claims. For Lender H, I recognise Mr W says he paid the settlement 
fee to stop this without receiving a PPI refund. But Ive seen evidence that shows Lender H 
confirmed to QFL Mr W had been paid. So, I dont think it would be fair to say QFL acted 
unfairly for chasing Mr W for their fee as from the information they had, Mr W had received 
the refund. Any issue Mr W had with speaking to Lender H would be something hed need to 
raise with Lender H as this was out of his control. And as Lender H have confirmed Mr W is 
owed a PPI refund, any issue with the payment of this would also be the responsibility of 
Lender H. So, I dont think QFL should compensate Mr W for the upset this caused.But I recognise QFL did agree to place a freeze on collection activity while he waited for a 
refund from Lender S to be received. And QFL have accepted this wasnt actioned correctly. 
Ive listened to several conversations Mr W held with QFL, and seen several letters, e-mails 
and texts sent to Mr W throughout the time QFL were instructed. And I recognise some of 
the wording including in these letters may have caused Mr W concern as they warned of 
potential legal proceedings. And I do understand why Mr W wouldve been upset by this, 
when he expected there to be a freeze on these communications. And I can appreciate why 
Mr W would feel forced into paying QFLs fees to prevent further action from being taken and 
why Mr W would feel as though hed been chased unfairly.
I think there wouldve been some emotional upset caused to Mr W. And I think it wouldve 
been inconvenient for Mr W to contact QFL on several occasions to explain why he was 
unable to pay their invoice when he was waiting for a refund to be received and I think QFL 
couldve been more sympathetic towards this. But I think the £400 reduction in the 
outstanding invoice is more than reasonable to recognise the above as I think it takes into 
account the stress Mr W has been caused but also acknowledges some of the difficulties 
were caused by the lenders delay in paying a refund as well as the actions of QFL. And 
because of this, I dont think QFL need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for and I recognise this doesnt 
alleviate his immediate financial concerns. But Id only be able to recommend a closure of 
his remaining accounts, and waiver of outstanding fees, if I was satisfied QFL didnt 
complete the work needed to secure the PPI refunds on Mr Ws behalf. And this isnt the 
case. Mr W entered into a contract with QFL which agreed to pay them a percentage of any 
PPI refund he received from the work they completed. And because of this, QFL are entitled 
to charge a fee for their work. As Ive explained above, I expect QFL to act positively and 
sympathetically towards Mr W following this decision and make efforts to agree an affordable 
repayment plan of the outstanding invoice.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Quickly Finance 
Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman