DRN-3375112
The complaint
Ms T complains about a car she acquired using finance provided by Startline Motor Finance 
Limited. She says the car was making a noise and had problems since she got it that still 
continue.
What happened
In September 2020 Ms T acquired a used car funded by a hire purchase agreement 
provided by Startline. The car cost £8,645.84. It was around four years old and had covered 
around 51,500 miles when Ms T got it.
Ms T says she immediately had problems with a loud creaking noise. The car was returned 
to the dealer, who Ill refer to as L, shortly after Ms T got it and it was identified it needed 
the steering rack and steering column replacing. It appears parts for the car were ordered.
In October 2020 Ms T contacted Startline about the car. And later this month also she got in 
touch with our service about her complaint. 
There is some dispute over what happened next. Startline say L was working with Ms T to 
find a replacement car. But, it said Ms T was refusing to engage with the process with L. It 
appears it was also discussed between Startline and L that Ms T could reject the car around 
this time. L appeared to believe it was up to Ms T to decide what to do next.
Ms T says that she was never asked to choose a replacement car and she was never 
offered one. And she says it was never discussed with her that she could hand the car back 
at any point.
In February 2021 Ms T says the car began to make a louder noise and she thought it might 
not be safe to drive. In March 2021 a repair was done and the steering rack was replaced. 
In May 2021 some further work was carried out and the steering column was also replaced.
 
In June 2021 Startline issued its final response to Ms Ts complaint. It said, in summary, that 
L had initially agreed to take the car back as Ms T had requested. It said L then told it Ms T 
was refusing to return the car. Startline then said it failed to maintain contact with L and Ms T 
and it said it was upholding this part of the complaint. It also said it was upholding the 
complaint about the car, but it said as it had now been repaired it wasnt allowing Ms T to 
reject it. Although it upheld parts of the complaint, Startline didnt offer Ms T anything.
Ms T remained unhappy with this. And, in July 2021 she said the repair was unsuccessful 
and the car was still making the same noise. She spoke to L and was told it would take some 
time for a repair. In November 2021 the car went back to L who said the offside top mount 
was creaking and needed replacing. L said this was unrelated to the previous repair. Ms T 
said it must be related, as the noise the car made never went away. At this point the mileage 
of the car was recorded as 63,865.
Our investigator issued an opinion and upheld Ms Ts complaint. He said he thought it was 
likely the car had a fault which meant it was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
He said Startline should cover any cost of repairs Ms T had paid out for, it should reimburse 
her 10% of six monthly repayments and pay her £100 to reflect the trouble and upset it had 
caused.
Ms T was unhappy with this. She said she never refused any offer from Startline or L. She 
said it was clear she didnt want the car. And she felt 10% of the repayments wasnt enough. 
Ms T also explained she hadnt had the most recent repairs carried out.
The case was then passed to me for a decision. I initially thought the complaint should be 
upheld, but for different reasons to our investigator. And I was considering instructing 
Startline to do something different to put things right. So, I sent Ms T and Startline a 
provisional decision on 23 February 2022. My findings from this decision were as follows:
Ms T complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Ms Ts complaint against Startline. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations 
and guidance. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This 
explains under a contract to supply goods the supplier  Startline here  has a responsibility 
to make sure the goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable 
person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
Relevant factors in a case like this involving a car would seem to me to be things like, but not 
limited to, the cars age, price, mileage and description. So, here Ill consider that Ms Ts car 
was used, was around four years old and had covered around 51,500 miles. A price of 
around £8,650 also represents a reasonably significant discount on what the car wouldve 
cost new. This means I think a reasonable person would not expect the car to be in the 
same condition as a new or younger model with less miles. But, I do think they would expect 
it to have been free of any major faults at supply and to have trouble free motoring for a 
reasonable time.
In this case, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that Ms Ts car had a fault with it when it was 
supplied. But I still think its worth me commenting briefly on this. She complained very early 
about the car making noise. And Ive seen a job sheet from shortly after Ms T got the car that 
notes:
checked fault and confirmed found excessive play in steering column and reqs replaced 
(sic). Also steering rack worn and reqs replaced (sic) as motor noisy
Considering this fault and how early it occurred, Im satisfied this was present when Ms T got 
the car. And, Im satisfied this meant it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
So, I now need to think about what shouldve happened to put this right, and if anything 
further needs to now be done.
Startline says that the fault has now been fixed so there isnt anything further it needs to do. 
Ms T says the fault was never fixed as the car continued to make a noise after the repair 
took place. 
I can see this argument from both sides. Im satisfied that its clear from the notes and what 
Ms T told us that its likely the car started to make noises shortly after she got it back. But, 
the most recent information on the job sheet from November 2021 says that the issue is due 
to the off side front top mount creaking. The top mount is part of the suspension  so 
seems like a separate part of the car from the steering issues which were previously 
repaired.So, it seems to me that one of two things happened here. Firstly, the car may have been 
repaired and unfortunately developed a separate fault shortly afterwards. I can understand 
Startlines point here that it may not be responsible for this as, if this was a separate issue, it 
developed some time after supply. Or, secondly, its also possible that this is the same fault 
from when Ms T got the car that was never repaired. In which case, I think Startline would be 
responsible for it.
But, I dont think I need to make a finding here on what I think most likely happened. I say 
this as, either way, I still think Startline need to do something to put things right for Ms T. Ill 
explain why.
Looking at the communication between Startline and L, it seems in this case from an early 
point that both parties agreed there was a fault with this car. It seems they both accepted the 
repairs were taking too long - and I think its worth me briefly noting here that I also dont 
think it was acceptable for Ms T to wait over six months for a repair to take place. And, it 
seems L and Startline were working to do something for Ms T to put things right for her at 
this time.
Im satisfied Ms T made it clear in this case she no longer wanted the car quite early on, 
which was effectively exercising her right to reject under the CRA. Im satisfied, given how 
long the parts took to arrive, that Ms T had a right to reject when she complained. There is 
communication between L and Startline that suggests Ms T was either going to be able to 
return the car or replace it. L later said Ms T wasnt engaging with the process of finding a 
replacement car and then refused to hand this one back. But, I dont think its most likely this 
was the case. 
I say this as Ms T continued to complain to Startline and referred her complaint to our 
service during this time. I dont think its likely she, on one hand, wouldve been refusing to 
engage with L about returning the car, while on the other continuing to engage with Startline 
and ourselves about the fact she couldnt return it.
The other important point to make here is that, despite it appearing it was agreed between L 
and Startline that Ms T could replace or reject the car, Ive been provided with no evidence 
at all that Ms T was made aware of this. Startline also said in its final response that it failed 
to keep in touch with L and Ms T and it upheld this part of her complaint. But, it didnt offer to 
do anything to put this right. In the meantime, Ms T continued to drive a car with a fault and 
eventually a repair was attempted.
In summary, Im satisfied the car had a fault when Ms T got it that meant it was of 
unsatisfactory quality. Im satisfied she made it clear to Startline and L she no longer wanted 
the car and exercised her right to reject it. Im satisfied L and Startline agreed with Ms T here 
that this would be fair. But, Im satisfied this was never communicated with Ms T, who 
remained unhappy with the situation.
Thinking about all of this, I think its clear Ms T shouldve been allowed to reject the car 
shortly after she got it. I appreciate a repair was attempted  but Im satisfied this was an 
unacceptable amount of time after the fault appeared. Given Ms T was still making it clear 
she didnt want the car, Im satisfied this repair was effectively done under duress and so 
Ms T didnt authorise it. Thinking about things in the round here, I dont think this repair is 
therefore a fair and reasonable way to put things right  especially as, as Ive explained 
above, it might not have been successful.
I know Ms T said she would accept a replacement for the car. But, practically I need to 
consider the difficulty Startline would have arranging this, considering the car is several years old. I dont think it would be realistic for it to be able to source another car of the same 
model, mileage, age with the same options etc. So, I dont think this would be a fair way of 
putting things right.
So, Im satisfied that given Ms T had a right to reject the car and Startline shouldve allowed 
her to do so, under the circumstances here it would be fair and reasonable to now allow her 
to reject it. I also need to consider that shes been driving the car for the whole time shes 
had it with a fault, or faults, which have been making a noise. Ive considered that Ms T 
thinks she should get all of her repayments back. But, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for this to happen, as she has still been able to drive the car. Instead, I think its 
reasonable she is reimbursed a percentage of her payments to reflect the impaired use of it. 
Considering everything, in this specific case I think it would be fair for this percentage to be 
paid for the whole time Ms T has had the car. I say this as, even if the repair was successful 
- and I am not making a finding that this was likely the case - shes still then been driving a 
car which has been making a noise. This would not have been the case if Startline had 
allowed her to reject the car when she had a right to. 
Ive thought about the amount Ms T should be reimbursed. While I havent seen evidence to 
suggest it affected how the car drove, I think a creaking/grinding noise from the car every 
time it was used would have quite a big impact. And Ms T says she felt unsafe driving the 
car which is understandable.  So, I think its fair Ms T is reimbursed 15% of all her 
repayments.
I also think Ms T has been caused trouble and upset because of whats happened. It must 
have been frustrating to be left with a car that wasnt in working order. The communication 
from Startline was not what she couldve expected. And, she was waiting too long for a 
repair to be attempted. I think she should be paid £200 to reflect this.
I gave both parties until 9 March 2022 to provide any further comments or evidence.
Startline didnt respond. Ms T came back and said she wasnt happy with my decision. She 
said 15% wasnt enough of the repayments to get back. She also said £200 wasnt enough 
to reflect what happened. She told me shed had to pay out for maintenance and repair of 
the car, such as putting new tyres on, that would now be wasted. Finally, she said any faults 
outstanding should be covered by Startline.
I replied to Ms T and explained I would address most of her points in my final decision. But, I 
explained if she wanted me to consider reimbursement for any items such as repairs or tyres 
she should send me invoices or receipts for these. And, I explained, in summary I would only 
recommend Startline pay for repairs if I was confident this would fix the issue and was fair 
and reasonable under all the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about everything Ms T said in response to my provisional decision. I 
understand she isnt happy with the percentage of repayments I thought it was reasonable 
for Startline to reimburse, nor with the £200 I recommended to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused.Ive considered what Ms T said about this. And, I do appreciate her frustration with the 
situation. But, having reconsidered things, I still think these amounts are fair and reasonable 
under the circumstances of the complaint.
Ive also thought about whether it would be fair to recommend that Startline repair the car 
instead of allowing Ms T to reject it. But, I still think under the specific circumstances here 
that its reasonable for Ms T to reject the car as I explained above.
Ms T didnt send any invoices or receipts for work to the car so I havent considered this 
point further.
Ive thought about all the other information and evidence on the complaint again, along with 
all of Ms Ts comments. Having done so, I still think the complaint should be upheld for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Startline Motor Finance limited to 
put things right by doing the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the car at a time and date suitable for Ms T at no cost to her
Reimburse 15% of all repayments made towards the agreement*
Remove any adverse information from Ms Ts credit file about the agreement
Pay Ms T £200 to reflect the trouble and upset caused
These amounts should have 8% simple annual interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of settlement. If Startline Motor Finance limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Ms T how much 
its taken off. It should also give Ms T a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman