DRN-3890586
The complaint
Mr H complains that Think Money Limited wont refund money he lost to an investment 
scam.
Mr H is being represented by solicitors in his complaint.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill provide an overview and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
At the start of 2021, Mr H came across an investment opportunity on social media. He 
exchanged messages with an individual who claimed to be the CEO of a forex trading 
company, U. Mr H was told he could make large gains and was persuaded to invest. He 
followed the individuals instructions, and, between 31 January and 8 February, made 
several payments to a cryptocurrency exchange using his Think Money prepaid card before 
sending the cryptocurrency on to a crypto wallet to fund his account with U. 
One of the payments  for £2,479.96  on 6 February was blocked by Think Money for 
further checks. After two failed attempts, Mr H responded to its text message and confirmed 
that he was making the payment. Think Money subsequently allowed the payment to go 
through. Then, on 9 February, Mr H called Think Money and said he thought hed been 
scammed. It cancelled his card and began investigating the matter. While investigations 
were ongoing, Mr H made a further payment on 11 February using his replacement card. 
Think Money declined to refund the money, and, in the summer of 2021, Mr H made a 
complaint. The matter was then referred to our service and our investigator initially upheld 
Mr Hs complaint. But they ultimately concluded that a meaningful intervention by Think 
Money was unlikely to have made a difference to Mr Hs decision-making. And so, the 
investigator didnt recommend Think Money to do anything further.
Mr H didnt agree, and the complaint was passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the most recent conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
The first question I need to consider in any case involving an investment scam is to 
determine, so far as is reasonably possible, whether the complainant was in fact 
scammed, rather than simply losing money to a high-risk investment. This is 
important because payment service providers (including authorised electronic money 
institutions) only have a duty to protect customers from the risk of financial loss due 
to fraud. This duty to intervene isnt triggered where payments are made to a 
legitimate investment. 
Very limited evidence of correspondence between Mr H and U is available. The 
website address on a screenshot Mr H has provided shows a slightly different name 
for U to what hes mentioned in his complaint letter. Nevertheless, Ive done my own 
research into both variations and theres very little information available online. There 
arent any warnings published on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website, or 
on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO). There is some suggestion that U might have been cloning 
another firm. Ive considered this and forum reviews in conjunction with Mr Hs 
testimony. I think it is more likely than not that he was the victim of a scam.
The transactions in dispute were authorised by Mr H using his legitimate security 
credentials. So, under the relevant regulations, hes considered liable for the loss 
(even though he was duped) unless theres evidence that Think Money could and 
should reasonably have done more to protect him against the risk of fraud and scams 
and that this would have made a difference to his decision-making. 
I dont consider the first three disputed transactions were unusual or uncharacteristic 
that I think Think Money should have intervened. The fourth transaction, for 
£2,479.96, did trigger Think Moneys systems and it sent Mr H a text message to 
check it was him making it. Ive considered the activity on Mr Hs prepaid card, and I 
can see that around six weeks prior to that transaction, Mr H had made a card 
payment for £1,874.18. On the face of it, the transaction for £2,479.96 doesnt 
appear to be that unusual or uncharacteristic for Mr Hs spending activity. Im also 
mindful the payment didnt go directly to the scammer  it went to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange. Under the circumstances, its arguable that a text message 
was a proportionate intervention on Think Moneys part. 
Even if I were to make a finding that Think Money ought to have enquired about the 
transaction itself (such as the reason for it, etc.), Im not persuaded that this would 
have impacted Mr Hs decision-making. I say this because despite believing hed 
been scammed, and reporting it to Think Money, Mr H proceeded to make a further 
payment in connection with the investment opportunity. Ive listened to the call Mr H 
made to Think Money on 6 February; he can be heard telling the agent that hes 
since done his research and its complete fraud. When our investigator asked why 
he made a further payment, Mr H said the scammer had convinced him that 
everything was genuine, and he was shown screenshots of other investors making 
gains. Despite having concerns about being scammed, and reporting them to Think 
Money, Mr H was persuaded by the scammers explanation and made a further 
payment. Had Think Money probed further at the time of the £2,749.96 payment and 
given a scam warning, Im not convinced the intervention would have stopped Mr H 
in his tracks. Given the scammer was contactable and could have therefore provided 
a persuasive and satisfactory explanation, I think it is more likely than not that Mr H 
would have still gone ahead with the payment. 
Ive also thought about Think Moneys actions in relation to the recovery of payments 
after it became aware of the situation. Mr Hs prepaid card was issued under the 
Mastercard scheme, and MasterCard has made it clear that there would be no 
reasonable prospect of success through its scheme for claims of this nature. Under 
the circumstances, I dont find that Think Money acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
not considering a chargeback. I know that Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome. Not least because the matter has 
been ongoing for some time and our investigator initially upheld his complaint. I fully 
acknowledge that theres a lot of money involved here. Despite my natural sympathy for the 
situation in which Mr H finds himself, for the reasons given, it wouldnt be fair of me to hold 
Think Money responsible for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman