DRN-3140024
Complaint
Mrs A has complained about the overdraft fees and interest Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
applied to her current account. Shes said shes recently been diagnosed with an illness and 
therefore falls into the category of being able to claim these charges.
Background and my provisional decision of 19 October 2021
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs As complaint and thought Lloyds shouldnt have 
provided Mrs A with a temporary overdraft in June 2014 and so it needed to refund all the 
interest and fees it added charged from this point. Lloyds disagreed and so the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman.
On 19 October 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mrs As 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by saying that Mrs A had said shed recently been diagnosed with an illness. I was 
sorry to hear that was the case and sincerely sympathised with her current position. But 
while this was the case, and I considered what shed said about falling into a category of 
being able to claim charges, Mrs As recent diagnosis didnt automatically mean that Lloyds 
should refund any historic interest, fees and charges it had added to her account over the 
years. 
Furthermore, I hadnt considered whether the various amounts Lloyds charged were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately 
how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And this wasnt something 
for me to get involved with.
However, while I hadnt looked at Lloyds charging structure per se, I did think that Lloyds 
wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs A if it applied any of the interest, fees 
and charges to Mrs As account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mrs A was experiencing financial difficulty. So I went on to 
consider whether there were any instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mrs A fairly and 
reasonably because it failed to act when told Mrs A was in financial difficulty, or it failed to 
recognise this in circumstances where it ought to have done. 
Our adjudicator said that Lloyds shouldnt have granted Mrs A with a temporary overdraft 
facility in July 2014 because it ought to have realised that Mrs A was struggling at this point. 
But it wasnt in dispute that Mrs A was in difficulty at this point. Lloyds notes showed that 
Mrs A got in contact in July 2014 saying that she was experiencing temporary difficulty as a 
result of only recently returning to work from maternity leave. 
I explained that once a lender is told that a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty we 
would expect it to exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory 
obligations. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of 
their circumstances and then assess the most appropriate way to move forward. 
As a result of its conversations with Mrs A, Lloyds agreed to a temporary arranged overdraft 
limit of £210. This was to protect Mrs A from a potentially prolonged period of incurring far 
more expensive unarranged overdraft fees and to provide her with some breathing space 
while more appropriate longer-term options were explored. This temporary facility was due to 
be repaid within six-months but as it was Mrs A returned to a credit balance much sooner 
than this. 
So it seemed to me that Lloyds did exercise forbearance and due consideration when Mrs A 
got in contact in July 2014 and it offered her appropriate temporary relief, which did resolve 
matters. And once this was done the temporary agreed overdraft was removed from Mrs As 
account. Therefore, I didnt agree that it was unfair for Lloyds to have provided Mrs A with an 
overdraft at this stage, or that she lost out because of this.
I then proceeded to look through Mrs As statements from July 2014 onwards. And I couldnt 
see that Lloyds ought to have been aware that Mrs A might have been struggling during 
these periods. It was fair to say that Mrs A did incur unarranged overdraft and associated 
fees. And I acknowledged that Mrs A might well have argued that this in itself ought to have 
led Lloyds to have realises that it was unfair to apply these charges. But it was also fair to 
say that these charges were incurred sporadically.
And while I wasnt seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs A expenditure, 
nonetheless there were significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions going from the account. And it was these transactions rather than 
any charges which were causing Mrs A to go into an unarranged overdraft when she did. 
Equally the amount being credited to Mrs As account each month didnt indicate that the 
charges would cause difficulty. Indeed, Mrs A often had a credit balance on the account, 
which further supported that any difficulties in July 2014 were temporary.
I accepted that neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) meant that Mrs A 
wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But I didnt think that there was anything in Mrs As 
account statements or in the transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted Lloyds 
to further financial difficulty  especially as Mrs A having got into contact previously indicated 
she knew assistance was available if she was experiencing difficulty. And, in these 
circumstances, Lloyds had more reason to expect Mrs A to get in contact if she was 
struggling or needed more help. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I didnt think that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed with 
the interest, fees and charges it did add to Mrs As account. And I didnt think that Lloyds did 
unfairly charge Mrs A in circumstances where it ought to have realised that she may have 
been experiencing financial difficulty.
I acknowledged that Mrs As financial circumstances may have taken a turn for the worse in 
light of her recent diagnosis and I was sorry to hear about this. However, Mrs A had asked 
us to consider whether she was entitled to a refund of the historic charges applied to her 
account. And having carefully considered everything, I was minded to find that she wasnt 
because I didnt think Lloyds applied any of the interest, fees and charges it did to Mrs As 
account unfairly. And as this was the case, I wasnt intending to uphold Mrs As complaint. 
Lloyds response to my provisional decision
Lloyds didnt provide anything further for me to think about. 
Mrs As response to my provisional decision   Mrs A confirmed receiving my provisional decision and told the adjudicator that she was 
disappointed that I hadnt agreed with her initial view on the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision set out in some detail why I wasnt intending to uphold Mrs As 
complaint. And as neither party has provided anything further or challenged my findings, Ive 
not been persuaded to alter my conclusions on this matter. So having carefully considered 
everything, Im not upholding this complaint.
I appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Mrs A  especially given recent events 
and our adjudicator initially, albeit erroneously, concluded her complaint should be upheld. 
But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman