DRN-1844943
 
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain that on the 22 June 2019 they deposited £300 to their joint 
account with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest), but NatWest have denied receiving 
the same. Mrs M and Mr M would like to see NatWests CCTV, but NatWest have refused to 
allow them to view it.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues and is 
known to both Mrs M and Mr M and NatWest, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in 
any detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mrs M and Mr M visited a branch to deposit some money, and at the direction of a member 
of staff, used the automated machine known as a CDM machine.  Mrs M and Mr M say they 
paid £500 in cash to be credited to their credit card account, 2 cheques to a total of £53 to 
their joint bank account, and a further £300 in cash to their joint bank account. 
NatWest dispute the £300 cash deposit but accept the other two transactions were carried 
out. They say they have checked their systems and reviewed their CCTV footage and are 
confident the £300 was not paid in as claimed.
Mrs M and Mr M was unhappy with NatWests final response and so approached this service 
to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, 
and having done so, concluded that NatWest hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with 
the complaint fairly.
Mrs M and Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether NatWest acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
NatWest has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
The accepted facts are that Mrs M and Mr M attended the branch and conducted 2 
transactions via the CDM, those being the payment of £500 to their credit card and the 
deposit of the 2 cheques to their joint account. With respect to the third transaction, Mrs M 
and Mr M didnt obtain a receipt for the £300 deposit.
Mrs M and Mr M are confident they deposited the £300 cash, but equally NatWest are 
confident they did not. There is a striking difference therefore in the two views, and the only 
way of resolving such a conflict is to look at the available evidence, or lack thereof, and then 
form a view as to the most likely version or explanation.
 
Mrs M and Mr M dont have the receipt which would have been automatically produced had 
they made the deposit via CDM. NatWest have stated that when they have interrogated their 
systems, they found there to be no cash difference when the CDM amounts were checked. 
In short NatWest say there is no evidence of any malfunction with their system, and there is 
no evidence before me to suggest there was.
This service has been unable to look at the CCTV footage since it has not been supplied, 
due to NatWests compliance with Data Protection laws so I cannot make any valid comment 
on what it does or does not purport to show.
However, the balance of evidence I have seen suggests that there was no mistake made by 
NatWest since there is no evidence of any system failure, nor any evidence of a valid 
deposit in the form of a receipt. 
So, although Mrs M and Mr M will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say 
NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and I think Mrs M and Mr M must be 
mistaken in their belief that they deposited the £300.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman