DRN-2763568
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as W have complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance 
claim, after initially telling them they were covered. 
Mrs B, a director of W, has brought the complaint to us on Ws behalf. 
What happened
W held a business interruption insurance policy with NFU. They claimed on their policy after 
they were impacted by the Governments response to Covid-19. NFU turned down the claim 
because it didnt think Covid-19 had caused damage to Ws property. It also said W hadnt 
closed due to an incident within the immediate vicinity or within one mile of their premises. 
Unhappy with NFUs response, W brought their complaint to our service. They said theyd 
held insurance with NFU for a number of years and believed the Government had required 
them to close due to an incident in their vicinity.
Our investigator looked into Ws complaint and thought NFU had fairly said the claim wasnt 
covered under the terms of the policy, as Ws closure wasnt due to an incident within the 
immediate vicinity or one mile of their premises and Covid-19 hadnt caused damage.
W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said theyd been required to 
close by the Government, due to an incident in the vicinity. They thought the policy should 
cover their claim as pandemics werent specifically excluded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on W. However, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if NFU has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ws claim.
Im going to focus my decision on the endorsement on the Policy Schedule for Action of a 
Competent Authority - Prevention of Access as this is the part of the policy that W think 
should provide cover. This states: 
 
Action of Competent Authority - Prevention of Access 
 
WE will pay for loss of GROSS PROFIT arising from an incident in the immediate 
vicinity or within a one mile radius of the PREMISES where access is hindered or 
prevented by the action of any civil or statutory authority or by order of 
the government or any public authority for more than 24 consecutive hours. 
 
The most WE will pay in any one PERIOD OF INSURANCE is £50,000. 
 
When reaching a fair and reasonable decision, Im required to take account of the law. I think 
the FCAs test case - which started in the High Court and proceeded, on appeal, to the 
Supreme Court - is relevant to Ws complaint.  
 
The High Court considered a similar term to that within Ws policy and this part of the 
judgment wasnt appealed.  
 
The High Court judgment said that the action taken by the Government in the regulations 
introduced on 21 and 26 March did qualify, under policy terms such as the one above, as 
action taken by a relevant authority. However, paragraph 405 of the judgment says: 
 
it is a misuse of language both generally and on the correct construction of 
the clause to describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident 
occurring within a one mile radius of the insured premises. It may amount to a 
state of affairs but it is too geographically dispersed, variegated, prolonged and 
non-specific to amount to an incident. Saying that the pandemic is everywhere 
does not mean that it is present at particular insured premises and certainly does 
not mean that it amounts to an incident occurring within a one mile radius of 
the insured premises it is a misnomer to describe the presence of someone in 
the radius with the disease as an incident for the purposes of the clause. 
 
Paragraphs 406 to 407 of the judgment say: 
 
We consider that this is a narrow, localised cover intended to insure events or 
          incidents which occur within the one mile radius. The localised nature of the          
cover is even more marked in the case of the alternative wording requiring the 
incident to occur in the vicinity of the insured premises 
 
It follows that there is no cover under [this type of] clause in respect of business 
interruption losses caused by the restrictions imposed by the government in 
response to the national pandemic. 
 
I see no reason to depart from the judgment as I think the endorsement was intended to 
relate to incidents that were limited to the local vicinity of an insureds premises. The 
Government response to the national pandemic, which caused Ws closure, was not 
in response to a localised incident. As such, I dont think the endorsement provides cover for 
Ws claim.  
I appreciate that pandemics arent specifically excluded in the policy, but I dont think that 
makes a difference because there isnt any part of the policy that would provide cover for the 
circumstances of Ws claim.
I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, but I dont think I can fairly 
require NFU to pay Ws claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman