DRN-3294845
The complaint
Miss O complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as CashPlus (APS) 
didnt do enough to protect her from what she says was an investment scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In late 2019 Miss O made a series of debit card payments to a merchant Ill refer to as F. 
These totalled around £2,500 and Miss O says that shes been the victim of an investment 
scam in relation to those payments. 
She asked APS to assist her to get her money back. But ultimately APS said they werent 
able to pursue a chargeback claim in relation to the payments. Being unhappy with this 
outcome, Miss O complained and later referred the matter to our service. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
she wasnt persuaded that F were operating a scam and didnt recommend that APS needed 
to provide a refund. As she disagrees, Miss O has asked for an Ombudsman to review her 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Miss O, so Ill explain why. 
The card with which Miss O made the payments in question was a Mastercard. As such any 
chargeback will be subject to the rules of the Mastercard scheme. The Mastercard scheme 
only provides very limited protection for payments made to any form of investment. Our 
service has clarified with Mastercard that there may be a chargeback route to pursue if the 
merchant doesnt make available on its platform funds transferred to it. But in this case, 
Miss Os testimony supports that she had access to a trading platform. Miss O has 
confirmed that she was guided through trades on her account by an agent from F. So, I dont 
think APS acted unfairly when declining to take a chargeback further, as I dont think there 
was an avenue for them to pursue that had any prospect of success. 
Ive also looked at F to consider Miss Os allegation that she fell victim to a scam. Im not 
persuaded that at the relevant time F were operating a scam. I say this as at that time they 
were regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySec). They were 
also able to offer their services to UK customers as recorded on the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) website. The services being offered may have been high risk and I accept 
Miss Os testimony that its likely there were some questionable sales and marketing 
techniques. But Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to support that F were 
operating a scam at the time Miss O made the payments. 
And although banks have obligations to be alert to fraud, there is no obligation to protect 
against bad bargains or to provide investment advice. So as I dont think F were operating a 
scam, there isnt any reason for APS to have intervened at the time Miss O made her 
payments to them. 
Im of course sorry to hear Miss O lost money in the way she did. Ive seen the evidence 
shes submitted to support what a difficult time she has been through in recent years. And 
whilst Im sympathetic to Miss Os personal circumstances, this isnt a basis upon which I 
can fairly ask APS to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman