DRN-2343866
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way Arrow Global Limited has handled a debt which it bought in 
her name.
This complaint has been brought on her behalf by a professional representative.
What happened
In 2011, Arrow bought a debt that it says Mrs C owed to a store card company. Mrs C made 
payments towards the debt until 2017.
Mrs C says she thought that she owed a sum of money which shed been paying through a 
debt management plan. But after reviewing her debts, Mrs C was no longer sure whether 
she owed money or if so, how much. 
Mrs Cs representative says that as Arrow has such limited information about the account, its 
not possible to say what term shes alleged to have breach which allows Arrow to collect the 
debt. 
Mrs C doesnt think that its fair of Arrow to ask her to pay a debt it cant prove exists and is 
currently unenforceable. 
Ideally, Mrs C wants Arrow to write off any outstanding balance or at least cease collection 
activity until Arrow can prove the amount claimed.
Arrow partially upheld Mrs Cs complaint as it couldnt provide the requested information. 
Arrow said it had updated Mrs Cs account as being unenforceable meaning it would not 
take court action. But Arrow says the account is still outstanding so Mrs C should make her 
repayments.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Cs complaint be upheld. Given the length of 
time that had passed since the account defaulted in 2006, he didnt think it was 
unreasonable not to have a copy of the credit agreement or statements. The investigator 
thought that the information about the historic payments Mrs C had been making shows the 
balance is correct. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has already explained, this service cant declare a debt to be 
unenforceable  thats something only the court can decide. But I can still consider whether 
Arrow has acted unreasonably when pursuing repayment of the debt from Mrs C.
Arrow doesnt have a copy of the original credit agreement. But Mrs Cs representative 
doesnt seem to dispute that she entered in to the credit agreement with the third party. Im 
satisfied that Arrow has reasonable grounds to believe the debt is owed by Mrs C 
I understand Mrs Cs concern that the outstanding balance might not be correct. But the 
statement from Arrows system shows Mrs C made regular monthly repayments against the 
debt. Arrow hasnt added fees or charges to the account and over several years the 
outstanding balance reduced to just over £410. Overall, I consider it more likely than not the 
balance is correct.
Arrow couldnt get a copy of the original credit agreement and has confirmed that the debt is 
unenforceable as a result. Im satisfied that Arrow hasnt misled Mrs C or tried to take 
enforcement action against her. 
I appreciate that it will disappoint Mrs C but Im not upholding her complaint. Although the 
debt is unenforceable, Im satisfied that Arrow is still able to contact Mrs C and request 
repayment. Ive considered the concerns raised about the amount that Mrs C owes. But the 
information Ive seen shows that Arrow was working based on information obtained from the 
original lender and the outstanding balance was correct. 
I havent found anything to show Arrow made a mistake and Im satisfied its dealt fairly with 
Mrs Cs complaint. Im not telling Arrow to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman