DRN-3439112
The complaint
Mr B complains the Currys Group Limited trading as Team Knowhow (Currys) mis-sold a 
finance agreement.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr B is represented by his mother.
In August 2019, Mr B bought a fridge freezer at a store and entered into a finance 
agreement. This is a flexible credit agreement that is an interest-bearing finance 
arrangement. Mr B agreed to pay £2916.72 in total over three years, at £81.02 per 
month.
Ms B says her son understood the agreement to be for only two years and was on an 
interest-free basis. So, they felt the agreement was incorrect and complained to 
Currys. Mr B said he didnt receive any paperwork other than the till receipt at the 
point of sale. 
Ms B has told us Mr B has high functioning Autism which affects the way he can 
understand and retain information. As a result, he would have signed the agreement 
without knowing the financial implications.
Currys has obtained a copy of the agreement and confirmed the signed credit 
agreement was for a 36-month term. It said it was unable to obtain testimony from 
the store about the sale due to the passage of time.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he didnt think Currys had made an 
error. 
Ms B on behalf of her son requested that an ombudsman review the complaint. She 
reiterated that her son wasnt given a copy of the finance agreement at the point of 
sale and in the final response letter the store in question stated, the agreement 
shouldve been interest free. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen its not in dispute Mr B bought a fridge freezer on credit. However, it 
seems that Mr B was under the impression that the agreement he was taking out was for two 
years interest free. 
Ms B has explained that her son has vulnerabilities and he wasnt given a copy of the 
agreement at point of sale, She has told our service this meant he wouldn't have understood 
or retained the details of the finance agreement, including the term, the full cost including 
any interest. She also says he didn't receive any of his contract information or statements. 
She says his disabilities would have been immediately obvious to staff, who should have 
offered him more support. 
Currys has said if Mr B had disclosed any vulnerability, with Mr Bs permission it wouldve 
recorded this information on its system. If the salesperson felt the customer was vulnerable 
but it wasnt disclosed, they wouldve explicitly explained everything and even offered for the 
customer to go home to discuss with others for clarity. Alternatively, it says if the customer 
informed the sales person to proceed but the sales person still had doubts regarding 
understanding or vulnerability there was a system in place for a call to be made by the 
finance company before giving a decision on the finance application. 
Based on the available evidence, it seems most likely to me that Mr B didnt disclose a 
vulnerability as this wasnt recorded on Currys system. Currys have been unable to speak to 
the salesperson to get testimony at the point of sale as they have since left their 
employment. However, Im not persuaded that there is enough evidence to say with certainty 
Mr B disclosed his vulnerabilities, or that the salesperson had cause for concern of Mr Bs 
understanding of the agreement. I can see Mr B provided his personal details and email 
address and this information was presented to him, alongside the details of the plan that 
outlined the cash price, number of payments, monthly amount, interest rate and the plan end 
date. Currys said it wouldve provided this with his till receipt.  
I appreciate Ms B has said it wouldve been obvious her son had vulnerabilities without being 
told. However, the Equality Act 2010 is designed to prevent discrimination against people 
with a protected characteristic. And therefore, under the Act, Currys shouldnt treat Mr B 
less favourably because he has a disability. It cant assume someone doesnt have the 
capacity to enter into a financial agreement. So, although I can empathise with Ms Bs depth 
of feeling about this, I note Mr B didnt have a Power of Attorney in place and therefore Im 
satisfied he was responsible for making his financial decisions and couldve discussed it with 
family if he needed to. Im also satisfied that it is more likely than not that the agreement was 
provided at the point of sale with the receipt and as Mr B provided an email address, he 
would have had access to this online as well.
If Mr B hasnt been receiving correspondence by way of statements etc, then in the first 
instance he will need to make a complaint with the finance company as under this complaint 
Im only able to look at the actions at the point of sale. 
Ms B has said that on delivery of the item they had to arrange to have plumbing work done 
and some units removed to fit the fridge. If Mr B or the family had concerns about the 
purchase, they had the opportunity to question things or even return the goods and exit the 
agreement within the cooling off period if this is what Mr B had wanted.
I have looked at the offers that were available in store at the time of purchase. And the 
information Ive seen shows that a two-year interest free option wasnt available at that time. 
I appreciate Ms B has said that this is in contradiction with what it said in the FRL. I dont 
think the FRL has been particularly well worded and when it says They also felt the 
agreement should have been interest free, .. this is referring to when they spoke to Ms B  
whom they referred to as the third party. I appreciate Ms B has said that the offer is available 
now but that is the nature of retail that offers and sales will sometimes be available on 
products but it doesnt mean retrospectively that this should be applied to the purchase Mr B 
made. In summary Im not upholding the complaint as I cant see that Currys made an error and 
there wasnt any option for an interest free period. I therefore wont be asking it to do 
anything further and I appreciate this will come as a disappointment.
Finally, if Mr B is experiencing some financial difficulties because of the monthly payment 
continuing for longer than he expected, then the finance business is obliged to provide some 
support and I'd recommend that he contacts it to discuss what type of help is available.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman