DRN-1882590
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited as he placed 
a limit order to sell his shares but it failed to action his instructions.
What happened
Mr P instructed Hargreaves Lansdown to sell all of his shares once their value reached 
68.5p each. However, Mr P has said despite the share price reaching that limit, Hargreaves 
Lansdown didnt sell his shares.
The reason Mr P wished to sell shares was to pay for a tax bill, and to pay off two interest 
only mortgages as the terms had ended. Mr P says as Hargreaves Lansdown didnt sell his 
shares as he instructed, he is now incurring penalty charges for not paying his tax bill. So, he 
complained to Hargreaves Lansdown.
Hargreaves Lansdown have said the reason Mr Ps shares were not sold was because the 
limit minding service was unable to execute the instruction within the time period the share 
price remained above Mr Ps limit. And as Hargreaves Lansdown doesnt guarantee that limit 
orders will be executed (even if the share price does reach the limit) it said it hadnt acted 
unfairly.
Mr P remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Ps complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. To summarise he said, Mr Ps 
limit order price had been met for less than two minutes and therefore he didnt think it was 
unreasonable that Hargreaves Lansdown was unable to execute the order in that time 
frame. He also said that the terms and conditions confirm that they cannot guarantee a 
consumers stop loss or limit order will be executed, even if the share prices reach the stop 
price or limit price set. Mr P didnt agree with the investigators opinion. So, our investigator 
asked Hargreaves Lansdown for evidence to demonstrate it had at least attempted to 
execute Mr Ps requests. 
Upon further investigation Hargreaves Lansdown said it had identified that Mr Ps order did 
trigger at 08:05:43, but the order did not proceed to obtain a quote or to place the trade. 
However, it went on the explain that it felt the situation remained the same as the price 
moved very quickly, and the volume of shares he wished to sell far exceeded the normal 
market size. And because of this the request would have been sent to the dealing desk for 
manual execution. Therefore, the price would have moved always outside Mr Ps limit.
However, Hargreaves Lansdown did offer Mr P £50 for the trouble an upset it may have 
caused by not informing him sooner that an error in the system caused an issue with Mr Ps 
order. Mr P remained unhappy and felt the offer Hargreaves Lansdown made was insulting. 
Therefore, he asked for the complaint to be passed to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
Ive seen evidence to demonstrate that Mr P submitted limit order instructions on     
11 November 2019 for Hargreaves Lansdown to sell his shares once the share price 
reached 68.5p per share.  
I have reviewed the London Stock Exchange times and sales data. Having done so, I 
can see that on 13 December 2019 at 08:05:25, Mr Ps limit order had been met and 
his shares were valued at more than 68.5p.
I can see from looking at the London Stock Exchange times and sales data that on 
13 December 2019 at 08:07:10 Mr Ps share price fell below 68.5p.
So, while I agree Mr Ps share price did exceed his limit order instructions and  
Hargreaves Lansdown should have proceeded to sell them, they only had 1.42 
seconds to sell the shares. 
I appreciate that it is frustrating for Mr P to find out that his limit order was triggered at 
08:05:43 but unfortunately didnt proceed to get a quote and place the trade. I have 
seen evidence from Hargreaves Lansdown of its internal records which shows the 
actions taken on Mr Ps limit order. And I think Hargreaves Lansdown should have 
taken more care when investigating what had happened to ensure Mr P was 
provided with the correct information. 
I have gone on to consider the position Mr P would have been in if his order had 
been executed as expected. And on balance I think it is unlikely Mr Ps request would 
have been executed in the timeframe the shares price exceeded his limit. I say this 
because due to the volume of shares Mr P was selling, it is likely it would have 
involved manual execution from the dealing desk. And it is unlikely the processes 
required to do this would have happened within 1 minute 42 seconds. 
I have also considered the terms and conditions which state:
Hargreaves Lansdown cannot guarantee that your stop loss or limit order will be 
executed, even if the share price reaches the limit price or stop price you have set. If 
you are not comfortable with this, you should not use this service.
So, while I appreciate Mr P may not have known the volume of shares he was selling 
may need manual intervention, he was aware that Hargreaves Lansdown didnt 
guarantee that this type of order is guaranteed to be executed. And so, I think it is 
reasonable to suggest, if Mr P wasnt comfortable with this and was relying on the 
sale of the shares to assist him paying his tax bill, he would have chosen  a safer 
alternative method to sell his shares. 
I appreciate Mr P feels the offer of £50 Hargraves Lansdown has made is insulting. But this 
isnt intended to compensate him for his request not being executed. This is to compensate 
him for it not providing accurate information as to why his limit order didnt generate a quote 
and place the trade. And I am satisfied this offer is in line with what our service would have 
awarded if Hargreaves Lansdown hadnt already tried to put things right. So, with that in 
mind I wont be asking Hargreaves Lansdown to do anything further
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman