DRN-2910769
The complaint
Mr U complaints on behalf of his business S that First Data Europe Limited (FDE) mis-sold 
a payment terminal to him as they didnt explain the terms of the contract he entered into at 
the point of sale.
What happened
In early November 2020, Mr U entered into a hire agreement (the contract) for a card 
payment terminal. Shortly after receiving the terminal, Mr U decided it wasnt fit for purpose, 
so he contacted FDE to cancel the contract as he thought there was a cooling off period. 
FDE said there was no cooling off period in Mr Us contract, so he wasnt able just to cancel 
it. They said he could end the contract early, but he would need to pay for the remaining 
months left to run. Mr U didnt think this was fair, so he complained to FDE. 
FDE didnt uphold the complaint. They said the terms and conditions of Mr Us contract didnt 
have a cooling off period and by signing the contract, he confirmed he had read, understood 
and would abide by the terms. 
Mr U didnt agree. He said he should have verbally been told by the agent whod sold him 
the contract that there was no cooling off period, and it was unfair this hadnt happened. He 
also said the contract was unclear and he wasnt even sure if the contract was 18 or 48 
months, as the information he had showed both periods. So he asked this service to look 
into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. He thought the terms and 
conditions were clear that there was no cooling off period. He also felt Mr U had the 
opportunity to read the contract and ask any questions before he signed it - as the sales 
agent had already been responding to previous questions. So he didnt think FDE had 
treated Mr U unfairly. 
Mr U didnt agree. He said he didnt know there wasnt a cooling-off period for the contract 
which is why he hadnt asked about it. He also said he hadnt completed the application 
himself, and if hed done so, he would have identified there wasnt a cooling off period  but 
hed only signed where hed been told to as he was being rushed by the sales agent. He 
also said he wasnt sure if his contract was for 18 or 48 months.
Our investigator said that although Mr U hadnt completed the application form himself, it had 
been completed by the sales agent based on information Mr U had provided, and he had 
been given time to read it before signing. The investigator also said FDE explained that 
although the contract had initially been quoted for 18 months, Mr U had been offered a 
higher discount if hed signed up for the 48-month term, with an option to review the contract 
once it had been in place for 18 months  which is what hed signed up for in the contract.  
Mr U didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr U has told us he wasnt told there wasnt a cooling off period when he signed the 
contract. He also said because he was in a rush to set up this service, he didnt read the 
contract as it had been completed by the sales agent - he just signed where he was told. So 
he feels he was mis-sold the contract. 
Looking at the contract, Ive seen it says in several places this non-cancellable contract for 
the period of the contract. For example, on page one of the application form, under the 
breakdown of the payable monthly fees, it says The fees set out in the table above are 
calculated on the basis that there is a non-cancellable commitment for the contract term. If 
the contract ends for any reason before the end of the contract term, the Merchant shall pay 
a termination payment in an amount equivalent to the aggregate of the monthly payment for 
each remaining month of the contract term.  
Ive also seen that on page two of the application form, Mr U signed to say that he agreed to 
be bound by and comply with the Contract which comprises this Application Form, the 
Merchant Terms which have been provided with the Application Form and any additional 
documents specified in the Merchant Terms as forming part of the Contract. And looking at 
both of these important pieces of information, Ive seen that they beneath the sections which 
explained the breakdown of the costs involved of the hire, the wording was in a reasonable 
size font and in clear and understandable language. 
I recognise Mr U has told us he didnt complete the application form, so he didnt see the 
terms that Ive mentioned above. However, Ive also seen the contract history which shows 
the date the contract documents were created and the time which was 12:16. These were 
then emailed to Mr U at 12:17 and viewed by him at 12:18. Mr U didnt sign the documents 
until 13:09, so Im satisfied he had enough time to read and digest the contract  and raise 
any queries or concerns he had about the contract cancellation  before signing the contract 
and returning it. 
Mr U also told us he wasnt verbally made aware of the cancellation terms, and he felt he 
should have been as he didnt complete the information on the contract. However, I think the 
terms in the contract were clear and although Mr U said he was in a rush to get this facility in 
place, he was still given the opportunity to read the documents before he signed them. I 
acknowledge Mr Us comment that he was told just to sign it, but there is also a reasonable 
expectation on a consumer to read the documents they are provided with to ensure they are 
an accurate representation of what was agreed.   
Furthermore, even if Mr U wasnt able to read all of the terms and conditions related to the 
contract because he was in a rush - which I acknowledge is entirely possible - the actual 
terminal contract document was only two pages long - not including the terms of service. 
These two pages contained the important information about the terminal hire contract 
including the cost of the contract and the confirmation there was no cooling off period. So 
based on what Ive seen I think Mr U had a reasonable opportunity to see the financially 
important information without spending a significant amount of time looking for it. 
I understand that Mr U will be disappointed with my decision as he wanted to be able to end 
the contract without paying the outstanding hire costs and cancellation fee. However, Mr U 
was given the information about the amounts he would have to pay if he ended the contact early which he signed to say he agreed to and understood. So I cant reasonably say FDE 
treated Mr U unfairly and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman