DRN-3471476
The complaint
Mr T complains that a chargeback he raised with TSB Bank plc wasnt successful. He says 
the reason given for the chargeback not being successful is void.
What happened
Mr T says he purchased three mobile phones from an online retailer in December 2021. He 
says several days after they were delivered, they were no longer required so he contacted 
the retailer to commence the returns process and request a full refund. Mr T told us:
He paid just over £4,000 for the three phones but decided he no longer needed them 
and tried to arrange for their return with the online retailer;
He hasnt been able to return the phones and it seems his relationship with the online 
retailer has broken down;
he asked TSB to raise a chargeback, which the bank did, but the claim was rejected 
on the basis that the goods hadnt been returned;
he disagrees and he wants a refund for the cost of the three new phones. Mr T says 
the retailer wont enable him to return the phones, so its wrong that the chargeback 
claim has been rejected.
TSB rejected Mr Ts complaint. It said it had raised a chargeback when Mr T first asked it to, 
but the claim was declined by the retailer. It says the retailer notified it that there were no 
chargeback rights as VISA requires the goods in question to be returned before a 
chargeback can be raised. And it said Mr T would need to get in touch with the retailer if he 
required further assistance.
TSB told us that Mr T took delivery of the three phones on 10 December 2021, and the 
payment for them debited his account on 13 December. TSB says it raised the chargeback 
on 22 December 2021, but this was declined because Mr T hadnt returned the phones. It 
says in these circumstances, there are no chargeback rights.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained how the chargeback scheme operates and said that in this particular case, TSB 
had to follow the rules set out by VISA  it was a VISA debit card issued by TSB that Mr T 
had used to make his purchase.
She acknowledged that Mr T was in dispute with the retailer and hadnt been able to return 
the mobile phones, but she explained that the chargeback rules dont cover the scenario 
where a customer simply changes their mind after purchase. She concluded that although 
TSB did raise a chargeback - which was defended by the retailer and unsuccessful - it didnt 
need to do anything more because there simply wasnt any reasonable prospect of success. 
Mr T disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says hes unable to resolve the 
matter with the retailer as it wont communicate with him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint, Im only considering the actions of TSB and how it handled Mr Ts 
request that it raise a chargeback on his behalf. Im not looking at the actions of the online 
retailer, the merchant, and Im not investigating the apparent breakdown of relations 
between it and Mr T.
Having considered everything very carefully, I have to tell Mr T that Im not going to uphold 
his complaint, and Ill explain why.
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be refunded in a 
number of situations, some common examples being where goods or services arent 
provided, where goods or services are defective, or where goods or services arent as 
described. In this particular case, an appropriate reason might be that although the goods 
were returned, the refund that was promised never materialised.
There's no automatic right to a chargeback. And chargeback is not a guaranteed method of 
getting a refund because chargebacks may be defended by merchants. This is because the 
rules, set out by the card scheme lay down strict conditions which must be satisfied for a 
chargeback claim to succeed. If a financial business thinks that a claim won't be successful, 
it doesnt have to raise a chargeback. But where theres a reasonable chance of success Id 
expect a financial business to raise a chargeback.
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme's rules  in 
this case VISAs  and not the relative merits of the cardholder/merchant dispute. So, its not 
for TSB  or me  to make a finding about the merits of Mr Ts dispute with the online 
retailer. TSBs role is to raise the appropriate chargeback and consider whether any filed 
defence by the merchant complies with the relevant chargeback rules.
And from what Ive seen, thats what TSB did here. It raised a chargeback quickly, just one 
day after Mr T first contacted it. But the merchants response suggested that it didnt agree 
Mr T had a valid claim; it said there were no chargeback rights as the goods needed to be 
returned before the chargeback is raised. And the merchants defence was enough to mean 
the chargeback didnt succeed.
Ive considered the relevant chargeback rules and Im satisfied the merchant was correct on 
this occasion. Thats because the code for cancelled goods wouldnt have succeeded 
based on what Mr T says and what hes provided. So, taking everything into account, Im 
persuaded that TSB took the claim as far as it reasonably couldve done given the 
merchants defence. In view of this, theres nothing more for TSB to do.
I know that Mr T will be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint, but I hope he 
understands why Ive concluded that TSB doesnt need to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman