DRN-3237741
The complaint
Mr T complains the handling of his home insurance claim by Aviva Insurance Limited has led 
to long delays. Hes also upset that he hasnt been given some information he asked for 
about the claim and the work done.
What happened
Mr Ts set out the details of the insurance claim and the work done in his complaint to Aviva. 
Im satisfied everyones aware of those details. So Im not going to repeat them here. 
In response to Mr Ts complaint, Aviva accepted their handling of the claim had caused 
delays. And they offered some compensation  £500  to acknowledge the trouble and 
upset caused for Mr T. Mr T feels a much higher amount of compensation should be paid. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She found Aviva werent able to give Mr T the 
information he wanted about the claim and the work done. So the question became how 
much compensation would be the right amount to acknowledge the trouble and upset 
caused for Mr T by the failings in this case. 
Our investigator said an extra £2,000 should be paid, to take account of the following:
Mr T and his wife had felt unable to get on with their lives while the claim continued.
There were a significant number of problems with the work that was originally done 
under the claim.
These left Mr T and his wife without some basic facilities.
It took a relatively long time for corrective work to begin, after Mr T had raised issues 
with the original work.
Mr Ts contact with Aviva demonstrated hed spent a lot of time trying to sort the 
problems out. 
A suggestion by Mr T to apply an hourly rate to the time hed spent pursuing the 
claim and his complaint didnt fit with our published approach to these awards.
The compensation already paid by Aviva was to cover a distinct issue earlier on in 
the claim, so didnt address the later problems that came up. 
Aviva didnt respond to that view. Ive taken that to mean they have no further points that 
they feel need to be considered. Mr T responded, saying he wanted our investigator to 
reword their view in certain ways. He also said he wanted Aviva to show they took 
responsibility for their failings, and for more compensation to be given. 
The complaint has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find the service here has been unreasonable. And I find its caused an 
impact for Mr T that needs to be acknowledged with a compensation payment.
Avivas role here was to ensure Mr Ts home was put right after an insured incident 
occurred. A reasonable level of service when doing that would make sure the process ran 
smoothly, without too much delay. Because the potential impact of any problems would be 
amplified by the fact it was Mr Ts home  his place of being  that was affected. 
I appreciate Aviva have been let down by the quality of the work done by the builders they 
employed. But Mr T is right to point out that part of Avivas role is to ensure the work is 
monitored, and delivered to an acceptable standard, and on time. A failure in that part of the 
process seems to have allowed the problems seen here to creep in.
Likewise, when problems came up, Avivas communication about the problems and what 
was being done to put them right has fallen short. Some of their contact with Mr T shows an 
awareness of how unreasonable the delays were becoming. But other actions show a lack of 
ability  or perhaps desire  to move the work forward. 
In short, Avivas management of the work allowed errors to occur, and to linger. Their poor 
communication left Mr T feeling he had to keep writing lengthy complaints to record all the 
problems accurately and get action started to fix them. And those failings by Aviva have had 
a significant impact on Mr T. So Aviva should acknowledge the impact their poor service had 
on Mr T.
Putting things right
Ive listed the factors that our investigator considered when deciding what level of 
compensation would acknowledge the impact on Mr T in this case. Thats because those are 
all factors I agree need to be considered. And I cant see theres a significant impact thats 
been missed off that list. 
So it perhaps wont be too surprising when I say I agree that £2,000  on top of the £500 
already paid by Aviva  is suitable to recognise the things Mr Ts described when writing 
about the impact the failings here had on him and his family. Im considering the same 
factors as our investigator, and taking the same general approach  as published on our 
website.
Thats a more significant sum than we typically see for this sort of impact. But thats right to 
reflect that the impact here has been on Mr Ts home-life. It affected him every day, for a 
period that lasted years, rather than the months that could typically be expected for this sort 
of home insurance claim. 
But it stops short of being the sort of sums Mr T has said hed like. Compensation on that 
scale would be more appropriate in cases where a failing has a severe and lasting impact on 
someone. Things like being made homeless, or suffering otherwise avoidable physical harm.
Here  thankfully  it seems like the work needed to settle the home repair side of the claim 
has finally been completed. That should bring that side of the matter to a close. The payment 
of £2,000 by Aviva is suitable in my view to also draw a line under the trouble and upset that 
its taken for Mr T to get his claim to that point. My final decision
I uphold Mr Ts complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited. To acknowledge the impact this 
caused for Mr T, Aviva should pay him £2,000 in compensation  further to the £500 already 
paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman