DRN-3616195
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) handled the closing of an 
account he held jointly with another party.
What happened
Mr L held a joint account with an overdraft facility at Barclays. Following the account being 
overdrawn for a number of months without receiving credits in Barclays made the decision to 
revoke the overdraft facility on 14 September 2015. As a result of this the account had an 
outstanding balance and was in unarranged overdraft which led to a termination notice being 
issued on 23 September 2015.
Following this contact was received from one of the joint account holders and a repayment 
plan was agreed. The plan failed and the account was terminated on 8 January 2016 and 
the debt passed to a debt collection agency and a default registered. 
Mr L complained to Barclays about how the account was managed prior to the account 
closing and requested information about the interactions on the account from January 2015. 
He says he had no idea his name was still on the account as he wasnt receiving statements.  
Mr L says he didnt know that the account had defaulted and that Barclays had failed to liaise 
with both parties to the account.
Barclays said it was unable to share any information regarding the joint party on the account 
as it didnt have the joint partys authority to do this. Barclays said the actions it took in 
closing the account were in line with the terms and conditions of the account, that all correct 
procedures were followed and Mr L was correctly notified about the termination of his 
account. 
Mr L was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ls concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Barclays hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr L disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr L has experienced and see if Barclays has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr L back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
I hope that Mr L wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. And the crux of Mr 
Ls complaint is that Barclays failed to liaise properly with him about the status of an account 
he held with it and the subsequent closure and registration of the default.
So the question I have to ask is whether Barclays did anything wrong in closing Mr Ls
account or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, closing his account 
and registering a default when he didnt pay back the outstanding balance of his overdraft in 
the required time.
Having reviewed the statements leading up to the termination of the account I can see that 
the account was overdrawn and hadnt received any credits into the account for around four 
months. The terms and conditions of the account allow Barclays to withdraw the overdraft 
facility if it is dis-satisfied with the conduct of the account  such as a lack of credits into the 
account. 
Barclays took the decision to withdraw the overdraft facility and wrote to Mr L informing him 
of what was to happen if the account wasnt brought back into a credit position. Ive seen a 
copy of the letter dated 14 September 2015 and can see that it is correctly addressed and is 
the same address Mr L has listed with us. I havent been given any reason why Mr L might 
not have received this letter, indeed most post is delivered correctly, so I cant say Barclays 
did anything wrong here.
And because the account wasnt brought back into credit within the required time the 
overdraft facility was removed which resulted in the account being in unarranged overdraft. I 
can see from Barclays internal screen shots that a termination notice was sent to Mr L on 23 
September 2015. The letter is again correctly addressed and provides details about what is 
to happen if the outstanding debt is not repaid - including transferring the debt to one of its 
recovery units and registering details of the account management with the credit reference 
agencies (CRA) it subscribes to.
Following this I can see a repayment plan was set up as Ive seen a copy of a letter 
addressed to Mr L dated 28 September 2015 confirming this. But as the plan failed and as 
the debt remained outstanding Barclays terminated the account in January 2016 and 
registered a default. So again, I cant say Barclays have done anything wrong as Im 
satisfied it followed the correct processes in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
and gave the required notice.  
Mr L says he wasnt receiving statements so he wasnt aware of the status of the account or 
that his name was still on the account prior to the closure. But Ive seen no evidence of any 
contact from Mr L asking for his name to be removed from the account. Mr L knew he had an 
account held jointly with his ex partner (even though he may not have been using it). And as 
a joint account holder Mr L is equally responsible for the management of it  this includes 
making sure he is aware of how the account is being used. 
I understand that Mr L is concerned about the impact the default has had on his credit report, 
but Barclays has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
CRAs it subscribes to is factually accurate  and what was reported is as far as Im aware is 
a true reflection of what happened. 
It might assist Mr L to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his credit record. 
The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any explanatory 
circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration when 
making lending decisions. If he wishes to do this, he should contact the CRAs directly.So overall and having considered everything I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint as I dont think 
Barclays has done anything wrong or treated Mr L unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman