DRN-3841560
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited irresponsibly gave her a loan she couldnt 
afford
What happened
In August 2021, Miss B applied for a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. She 
borrowed £10,000, which would be repayable by 60 monthly repayments of £221.17. The 
total amount repayable was £13,270.20.
Miss B made two of the repayments before she stopped paying altogether. In 
February 2022, Miss B complained to Shawbrook to say the loan shouldnt have been 
provided to her as it wasnt affordable and that if Shawbrook had completed the appropriate 
checks it would have seen this too.
Shawbrook said that Miss B had met their lending criteria and affordability had been 
assessed based on information she had provided on the application and from information 
obtained from credit reference agencies. Shawbrook said none of this information indicated 
any affordability concerns.
I sent Miss B and Shawbrook my provisional decision on 21 November 2022. I explained 
why I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I said:
The rules for lenders are set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook of rules and guidance. In summary, 
these say that before providing Miss B with credit, Shawbrook were required to 
complete proportionate affordability checks to satisfy itself that Miss B could afford to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way.
There isnt a set list of checks that Shawbrook were required to complete, but it 
needed to ensure that what checks it did do were proportionate in the circumstances. 
What is considered proportionate will vary in each case as there is no one-size-fits-
all approach. Some of the relevant factors in deciding what would be proportionate 
are (but are not limited to):
The amount being borrowed;
The amount and frequency of the regular repayments;
The term of the agreement;
The cost of the borrowing and the total repayable;
The consumers individual circumstances.
In this case Miss B was expected to repay over £13,000 in a period of five years with 
monthly repayments of over £200. That is a fairly significant commitment, so, my 
starting point is that any proportionate affordability checks ought to have been 
relatively thorough.
Miss B declared an annual income of £40,000. When assessing income CONC sets 
out that generally it isnt sufficient for a lender to rely solely on what the borrower 
declares their income to be. I think given the circumstances here, it would have been 
proportionate to verify income in some way.
Shawbrook says it sought to verify Miss Bs declared income using a tool provided by 
a credit reference agency. Shawbrook has provided the results of these checks 
which show that the credit reference agency had a high confidence that what Miss B 
had declared as her income was likely to be accurate. I havent seen anything in this 
specific case to make me think that Shawbrook should have had any concerns about 
the accuracy of Miss Bs income, so I dont think it needed to do more.
CONC also sets out that generally Shawbrook should take reasonable steps to either 
find out or make a reasonable estimate of Miss Bs expenditure before lending. I think 
it would have been proportionate for Shawbrook to have done this here, given the 
size, term and overall cost of the loan.
Shawbrook completed a credit check and has provided us with the results of those 
checks which I think gave it a reasonable understanding of what Miss Bs credit 
commitments were likely to be. This showed she was paying £539 per month 
towards a mortgage, had an existing credit card with a limit of £3,000 that was 
currently not being used and that she had three current accounts all with a credit 
balance and a utility account that was up to date.
I dont think there was anything within this credit check that ought to have alerted 
Shawbrook to a potential problem with affordability. It seems Miss B had very little in 
the way of credit commitments and those that she did have were managed very well 
with no signs of financial distress.
While Miss B did have three other loans totalling £30,000, these did not appear on 
the credit check Shawbrook completed. That isnt particularly surprising given that 
Miss B had entered into those loans only a few weeks earlier. As they didnt appear 
on Shawbrooks credit check I cant reasonably say they should have known about 
them unless Miss B told them (which she didnt) or I think Shawbrook should have 
completed more thorough affordability checks which would most likely have revealed 
them. However, I dont think in this specific case Shawbrook needed to do more 
check than it did. Ill explain why.
Shawbrook also estimated Miss Bs reasonable living expenses which it calculated to 
be £733.48 per month. In some situations, it might not be reasonable to rely on an 
estimate of average expenditure. For example, this might be in circumstances where 
it ought to be clear that using an average or estimate is likely to not be representative 
of the true financial circumstances of the borrower.
However, Ive seen no reason to say that in the very specific circumstances of this 
case it was unreasonable for Shawbrook to rely on an estimate of likely living costs in 
the way that it did. I say this because Miss B appeared to have a reasonable income, 
very few credit commitments with no signs of financial difficulty or distress and there 
was nothing else within the application or checks that Shawbrook completed that 
ought to have caused it some concern about affordability.
Our adjudicator suggested that Shawbrook should have gone further in verifying Miss Bs expenditure and had it done so it would have seen that she had taken out three 
other loans for £10,000 each only a few weeks earlier. Its possible that further 
checks may have revealed these loans, and in some cases it might have been 
reasonable for Shawbrook to have done more to verify a consumers expenditure 
before lending. However, Im not persuaded that was necessary here or that it would 
have been proportionate to do so.
I think Shawbrook gathered a reasonable amount of information and evidence about 
Miss Bs financial circumstances to help it understand whether the loan was likely to 
be affordable to her. These showed that Miss B likely had a large amount of 
disposable income with which to be able to afford the loan and there was nothing 
within any of the checks it completed that ought to have caused Shawbrook to 
question that conclusion or to seek more assurances about the affordability of the 
loan. As Ive said above, Miss B appeared to have very few credit commitments and 
those she did have were managed well and there was no history of payment difficulty 
or other indicators of potential concern. I therefore think Shawbrooks affordability 
checks in this specific case were reasonable and proportionate and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest it ought to have done more thorough checks.
Having thought about what the results of Shawbrooks affordability checks revealed, 
Im satisfied that these didnt highlight any affordability concerns. Therefore, I dont 
think Shawbrook acted unfairly in giving Miss B the loan.
I understand Miss B is struggling with the repayments towards the loan currently and 
I remind Shawbrook of its obligation to treat her fairly in relation to her financial 
difficulty.
I invited both parties to submit any further comments or evidence. Miss B accepted my 
provisional decision and Shawbrook didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence and as Miss B has 
accepted the provisional decision, Ive seen no reason to reach a different conclusion to the 
one I reached previously. Im therefore not persuaded that Shawbrook acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in giving Miss B the loan for the reasons Ive set out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman