DRN-3333444
The complaint
Mr P complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) delay in obtaining a police report. 
What happened
Mr P was involved in a car accident in June 2018 which he reported to AXA. At that point   
Mr P didnt have details of the third party involved in the accident so AXA requested the 
police report to get these details. Mr P chased AXA on a number of occasions but was told 
they still hadnt received the police report. By early 2021, AXA still hadnt received the police 
report so Mr P complained about the delay. Mr P explained he wanted to pursue a personal 
injury claim but was prevented from doing so until AXA obtained the police report. Mr P also 
complained that he had been told by AXA he would need to instruct his own solicitor to 
pursue a claim. Mr P said this was unreasonable as he cant go to a solicitor without the third 
party details and he also feels this is unfair as he has legal cover so AXA should arrange a 
solicitor to deal with any claim.      
AXA responded and said they understand Mr P is unhappy at being told to speak with his 
own solicitor about pursuing a personal injury claim. AXA say, at this point, they didnt have 
the third partys vehicle registration on file so they werent able to instruct a solicitor. AXA 
said, they did later get this information but this wasnt a requirement under Mr Ps policy 
conditions as they are only required to provide legal cover where they have a reasonable 
prospect of success. They acknowledged Mr P was unhappy with the delay in them 
obtaining the police report to gather information about the third party and this meant the 
limitation period to make a claim against the third party had now run out. AXA accepted they 
had caused some delay but the bulk of the delay was caused by the police as they didnt 
respond to AXAs correspondence in a timely manner and didnt initially accept the reference 
number they provided Mr P for the incident. AXA said, in addition to this, the police notified 
them there was a new process in place for insurers requesting a police report but the 
process wasnt made clear to AXA. AXA accepted they werent as proactive in chasing the 
police for a response as they couldve been and offered Mr P £400 compensation.    
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mr P and AXA on 2 February 2022. In my provisional decision I said as follows:   
   
The delays in this matter have left Mr P in a position where the limitation period to 
claim for personal injury has expired  so, as things stand, Mr P cant now claim 
against the third party for injuries he says he sustained. AXA accept they werent as 
proactive as they couldve been when chasing the police for the report. They agree 
they were responsible for some delays which includes raising payment for the report. 
AXA say their delay was small compared to the delays caused by the police. So, Ive 
looked into this further to see how much of the delay is attributable to AXA. 
Mr P reported the accident to AXA on 21 June 2018 and its noted at this point that 
he doesnt have any details for the third-party. AXA contacted the police on 2 July to 
request the report and then sent a letter by post on 11 September to request a copy 
of the police report. The letter has been stamped to show it was received by the 
police on 19 September. The police respond on 26 September to say it can take up 
to 12 weeks for information to be made available for release. They explain theres a 
new process for insurers requesting information and ask AXA to complete a 
disclosure form which can be found by following a link they attach. 
AXA email the police on 7 January 2019 and ask for a crime reference number for 
the incident. AXA email again on 11 February to say theyve been asked for a crime 
reference number but they only have an incident number. They ask the police how 
they would go about getting a crime reference number in order to request the police 
report. The police respond on 28 February asking AXA to complete a disclosure 
form. The police email on 30 April and apologise for the delay in responding which 
they say is due to a backlog of requests. The police say they cant find a completed 
disclosure form or payment of a search fee. They say they require this first before 
theyre able to confirm the availability of the information AXA have requested. AXA 
send a disclosure form to the police on 22 August. The police email AXA on 19 
September attaching details of their search fee. The police say a payment of £35.20 
is required before any further action is taken. They also say a copy of the full report 
will incur a further charge. 
I can see AXA have provided a screenshot from their system showing a payment of 
£35.20 was made to the police for the search fee on 3 March 2020 and they then 
chased the police for the report on 23 July. The police respond on the same day and 
say their records show theyre awaiting payment of the search fee. They ask for 
further information to help them locate the payment, this includes their reference. 
AXA respond on 28 August with the further information requested. The police 
respond on 2 September and confirm receipt of the search fee and also confirm a full 
police report is available at a cost of £100.70. The police provide details of how the 
payment should be made. AXA chase for an update on 21 September and the police 
respond the same day to say any payments for September 2020 requests are being 
processed and this can take 4-6 weeks for these to be cleared. The police say they 
will respond as soon as possible. AXA chase on 13 and 23 October and the police 
respond to confirm they have received the search fee and theyre now awaiting a 
response to the request. AXA chase again on 4 November. The police respond on 5 
November and confirm a police report is available but they require £100.70 for this to 
be released. They provide details of how to make payment. 
AXA chase on 19 November and the police respond the same day to confirm receipt 
of the search fee payment and refer to their email of 5 November requesting a 
payment of £100.70 for the police report. The police explain the £35.20 payment was 
their search fee to confirm they hold the requested information but theres a separate 
fee of £100.70 to release the report. 
AXA responded on 2 February 2021 to confirm the payment hasnt yet been raised 
and ask whether the same account details should be used for this payment also. The 
police respond the following day to confirm the account details and AXA then pay the 
fee on 8 February and confirm this to the police on 15 March. AXA then chase on 28 
May to say they have made payment. AXA then chase on 1 June and again on 2 
June providing proof of payment. The police respond on 3 June to confirm receipt of 
the payment and to say they have asked their internal team to send the report that 
day. AXA responded the following day asking if the report can be sent by email or if 
they could have details of the third party. The police respond on 7 June to say they 
dont send disclosure information by email. The report is then received by AXA on 14 
June. 
The information shows the police provided AXA with details on how to submit a 
request for information. The police provide clarity in April 2019 but the disclosure form isnt sent by AXA until around four months later. The police then provide details 
of the search fee which needs to be paid but this isnt paid by AXA until over five 
months later. And, following payment, AXA dont then chase until over four months 
later. Theres then an issue with the police being unable to locate the payment but 
AXA dont respond until a month later with the further information requested by the 
police. At the start of September 2020 the police confirm a full report is available 
together with payment details. Its not clear why AXA then chase the police for the 
report as the next steps, as set out by the police, are for AXA to pay the fee for the 
full report. Another email is sent at the start of November with details of the fee to be 
paid. This fee isnt then paid by AXA until three months later  and five months after 
first being notified of the fee to be paid for the report. AXA then chase about a month 
later and again 10 weeks later. By this point, the limitation period for Mr P to claim is 
only a few days away. 
Taking this all into account, I think there have been significant delays by AXA and I 
dont agree with AXAs comment that these delays are small in comparison to the 
delay caused by the police. The delays by AXA I have highlighted above amount to 
around 21 months. The information shows AXA were aware as far back as August 
2018 that Mr P was intending to pursue a personal injury claim and required the third-
party details to take this forward. So, there shouldve been much more urgency on 
the part of AXA to get the report. The information shows, when the fee is paid for the 
police report, its received by AXA four months later. So, I believe, its more likely 
than not, had the fee for the report been paid when AXA first received information 
about the fee in September 2020, the report wouldve been received around January 
2021  leaving sufficient time for a solicitor to consider the merits of a potential 
personal injury claim on behalf of Mr P.       
I can see, as the limitation period was approaching, AXA contact their solicitors to 
see what steps can be taken in relation to Mr Ps personal injury claim. AXA discuss 
whether protective proceedings can be issued to prevent Mr P from losing his 
opportunity to claim but the solicitors advise they cant issue protective proceedings 
without details of the third party. The solicitors explain they require the third partys 
details by 11 June if they are to deal with the personal injury claim. They then email 
AXA again on 14 June to say they have closed their file as the third-party details 
havent been received.    
I think its important to add, its not my role to determine whether any personal injury 
claim wouldve been successful and, if so, what damages Mr P mightve received. 
Its clear though that, as things stand, Mr P has lost his opportunity to claim  and I 
think AXA are largely responsible for this. While I accept the delay isnt down to them 
alone, I think there is significant blame attributable to them as Mr P is their customer 
so they have a duty to act fairly and promptly. And theyre fully aware why he needs 
the third-party details. From reviewing all the information, I cant say theyve acted 
promptly in relation to obtaining the police report.   
I think its right that AXA should compensate Mr P for the loss of opportunity of 
pursuing a claim and the significant upset and frustration caused by their delays. The 
information from AXA shows Mr P was regularly contacting AXA for updates and 
being told AXA are still waiting for the police report. This was even on occasions 
when there was action for AXA to take. For example, Mr P calls AXA in early March 
2020 and is told AXA are awaiting the police report, but at that point in time AXA 
hadnt yet paid the search fee. Its clear Mr P was becoming increasingly frustrated 
and this then led to his complaint. Mr P has described the injuries he sustained as a 
result of the accident and he says hes still affected by those injuries now. Its understandable that Mr P is very upset and frustrated at the fact that he may not ever 
know whether there was a personal injury claim to pursue and whether he couldve 
recovered damages for his injuries. As mentioned above, I cant say whether he 
wouldve been successful in a claim, but it doesnt change the fact that he has been 
deeply impacted by AXAs delays.   
Taking this all into account I think compensation of £600 would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the significant upset and frustration 
caused to Mr P as a result of the delay and the loss of opportunity to have a solicitor 
consider whether there were merits in pursuing a personal injury claim. I can see 
AXA have already paid £400 compensation to Mr P, so they would need to pay an 
additional £200 to bring the total to £600.     
I note Mr P is unhappy AXA told him he could get his own solicitor to pursue a claim. 
I understand why this upset Mr P as he paid to have legal cover option included in his 
policy but I cant say AXA have made an error here. The terms and conditions say, 
under the heading Prospects of success, We will only provide cover where your 
claim or any appeal you are pursuing or defending is more likely than not to be 
successful. The information shows AXA did speak with their solicitors but they 
advised they couldnt take any claim forward without the third-party details. So, when 
Mr P was told he could arrange his own solicitor, it was because AXA didnt feel there 
were reasonable prospects of success. 
So, subject to any further comments from Mr P or AXA, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint and require AXA to pay compensation of £600 to Mr P. 
Following my provisional decision, AXA responded to confirm they agree with the provisional 
decision. Mr P has responded to say the case now isnt based on AXAs delay but on their 
negligence to supply the product he purchased within his legal cover. Mr P says he has been 
on the polices website and cant see the process of obtaining a police report is difficult to 
follow. He says AXA are one of the largest insurers so they shouldve been familiar with the 
process. Mr P says the circumstances of the accident suggest he wasnt at fault so, had the 
third-party been identified sooner, his claim would have had good prospects of success.     
Mr P says its now more than three years since the accident and he still suffers symptoms 
and feels AXA should pay for a medical assessment and then action any recommendations 
made. Mr P feels the £600 being recommended doesnt cover his injuries, medical 
appointments and other expenses. Mr P has also provided evidence of previous and future 
hospital appointments for the injuries he says he sustained from the accident.  
Mr P has raised some questions for AXA about what legal advice they received. And, he 
questions why, given the time taken to get information, AXA didnt make a claim to a body 
that handles claims where the third-party cant be identified.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
I am very sorry to hear about the impact the accident has had, and continues to have, on   
Mr P. An accident is a distressing event so we expect insurers to deal with things fairly and 
promptly to ensure their customers arent caused further worry and upset. That hasnt happened here as AXA have clearly caused significant delay in obtaining the police report. I 
agree with Mr Ps point that the process for obtaining a police report was straightforward 
and, from what Ive seen, the delays were caused primarily by AXAs lack of action rather 
than it being a complicated process. 
I acknowledge Mr Ps feelings about the prospects of success of a claim against the third-
party but, as Ive mentioned, I cant assess the prospects of success or even look into the 
merits of pursuing a claim. I acknowledge the loss of opportunity for Mr P  and thats what 
the compensation of £600 takes into account. Mr P has provided evidence of hospital 
appointments and I dont doubt hes still not fully recovered from the accident. But, these 
injuries relate to the accident and not the service provided by AXA. So, given that I cant say 
what the outcome of any claim wouldve been, I cant say AXA should be responsible for any 
expenses incurred for medical treatment.  
I understand Mr Ps point about why a claim wasnt submitted to the body which handles 
claims against untraced third parties but again I cant say what the outcome of this wouldve 
been. It might well have been the case that body couldve decided that this isnt a claim 
which meets their criteria as there is a suggestion the third party has been identified in a 
police report. 
Mr P has raised some questions for AXA about what legal advice they received. Looking at 
the information provided by AXA, it doesnt look like they received any advice on the merits 
of a claim and the advice they received was limited to the solicitor explaining they need the 
third partys details and also about whether protective proceedings could be issued. Mr P 
also asks about the impact on his no claims bonus, but hell need to refer this to AXA. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that AXA have caused significant delays in obtaining the police report. 
So, AXA should pay Mr P compensation of £600 for the significant upset, frustration and loss 
of opportunity caused to Mr P. AXA say they have already paid £400 compensation to Mr P 
 if that is the case then they would need to pay an additional £200 to bring the total to £600.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman