DRN-1955976
The complaint
Mrs J complains that TSB Bank plc didnt do enough to stop fraudulent activity on her 
account. And didnt notify her about the fraud. Shes also unhappy that TSB stopped her 
making online payments for several months. She wants compensation for the trouble and 
upset she suffered.
What happened
Between 6  26 November 2019 several online transactions were made from Mrs Js TSB 
current account totalling just under £140, without her consent. 
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties are of aware of which 
transactions are in dispute.
Mrs J says the bank never tried to call her. And she only discovered the fraudulent 
transactions when she called the bank on 25 November 2019, because she was having 
trouble making an online payment to buy something for her son. During the call TSB asked 
Mrs J to go through her bank statements and then go into a branch to identify the disputed 
transactions. Mrs J did this and TSB refunded the disputed transactions on 26 November 
2019. 
Mrs J says she has no idea how the fraud occurred  especially as she says she wasnt able 
to make online payments from the account herself. And always keeps her account details 
safe. She cant understand how a fraudster managed to make the transactions and why the 
bank didnt pick up on the unusual activity. Shes upset the bank didnt stop the transactions. 
And says she was left without money to buy food and essentials. Shes also said she wasnt 
able to make online transactions since July 2019, which was before the fraud and direct 
debits went unpaid. So, she wants TSB to pay her compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered. 
Mrs J complained to the bank. TSB said it hadnt done anything wrong. And said it tried to 
speak to Mrs J on 8 November 2019 about the activity on her account, after its fraud system 
flagged that Mrs Js account mightve been compromised. But Mrs J didnt answer her phone 
when the bank had called her. The bank explained the alert wouldnt have blocked Mrs Js 
account as this couldve caused her unnecessary inconvenience. However, it added a flag 
as a security measure, which increased the chance that payments would be blocked and 
then checked. This caused the payment Mrs J tried to make on 25 November 2018 to be 
blocked.
TSB explained that although a flag was applied its not uncommon for fraudulent 
transactions to still debit an account, which is why they ask customers to monitor their 
accounts. The bank says Mrs J accessed her internet banking on 5 occasions between 5 
and 14 November 2019, but she made no attempt to contact the bank and query the 
transactions. And they wrote to Mrs J on 1 November 2019, about an unpaid direct debit, but 
this hadnt prompt Mrs J to check her account. TSB says it accepted Mrs J never authorised 
the disputed transactions and refunded all the payments. And said it hadnt blocked Mrs Js 
account, so she was able to make online payments.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs J brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into things for her. The investigator said she hadnt seen any evidence 
Mrs J wasnt able to make online payments since July 2019. She thought if this was the case 
Mrs J wouldnt have waited until November 2019 to contact TSB.
 
Based on the available evidence, she said TSB had tried to contact Mrs J when it believed 
her account had been compromised and it had followed its fraud processes to protect 
Mrs Js account. 
Mrs J disagreed. She maintained TSB had blocked her account which prevented her making 
online payments for months. And said the bank had failed to safeguard her account because 
it allowed several fraudulent transactions to debit her account. She maintains the bank didnt 
do enough to protect her from fraud, it has breached its duty of care to her and didnt 
educate customers about fraud.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for roughly similar 
reasons. 
I appreciate Mrs J was disappointed by the investigators opinion and Im sorry Mrs J has 
been the victim of fraudsters. I can understand that the criminals have caused Mrs J a good 
deal of upset and stress. 
Mrs J has mentioned in her submissions that TSB failed to conduct a proper fraud 
investigation into the activity on her account. She says the bank was dismissive and failed to 
take any responsibility for what had happened. So, she says shes lost all confidence in the 
bank. 
Im aware of Mrs Js concerns about the extent and scope of TSBs fraud investigation, but it 
is not my role to tell it how investigate fraud cases. Like the investigator has said, its the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who regulate businesses and their 
processes. Were not the right service to address Mrs Js wider points about how TSB 
investigates fraud. Thats the job of the FCA.
 
Having looked at whats happened here I can see that TSB took steps to refund Mrs J the 
losses she suffered as a result of the actions of the fraudsters quickly - within a day of Mrs J 
confirming she hadnt authorised the disputed transactions. So, Im satisfied Mrs J hasnt 
suffered any financial loss.
Mrs J is seeking compensation for the trouble and upset she was caused by the fraudulent 
activity on her account. She holds the bank responsible and cant understand how the bank 
allowed the disputed transactions to happen. But when Im looking to make an award for 
distress and inconvenience I can only do so if that flows from a mistake by the financial 
business involved. And having considered the circumstances, I dont find TSB acted 
inappropriately. Im also satisfied that the principle cause of Mrs Js distress was the 
fraudsters actions. And not as a result of something TSB did or didnt do.Mrs J says the bank should have done more to protect her account and contacted her about 
what was happening on her account. TSB has explained that it believes it has robust fraud 
detection and prevention measures in place to protect their customers. Ive looked at the 
banks contact notes and I can see that the bank did try and contact Mrs J on 8 November 
2019, when it noticed unusual activity on her account. And when it wasnt able to speak to 
Mrs J it placed an alert flag on her account. So, Im satisfied that TSB did take steps to 
protect Mrs Js account and speak to her about what was happening.
TSB has explained that placing an alert on Mrs Js account didnt stop the fraudulent 
transactions. But it takes this tact so as not to cause inconvenience to its customers and 
waits for customers to contact the bank. I dont find this action unreasonable. And I 
acknowledge that banks face a difficult balancing exercise when trying to set the right level 
of protection to stop fraudulent transactions against the potential inconvenience caused to 
consumers whod be unnecessarily blocked from making legitimate transactions.
TSB have been unable to explain how the fraud was committed. Unfortunately, the 
techniques and methods used by fraudsters are constantly adapting, becoming increasingly 
sophisticated and evolving to work around fraud prevention measures that banks bring in to 
protect customers. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to expect TSB to be able to 
completely eliminate the risk of fraud, or to find it at fault for not being able to do so. 
Ive also kept in mind that the disputed transactions consisted of small transactions to the 
same merchant, which I couldnt reasonably have expected TSB to have detected as 
unusual or unauthorised. I can also see that Mrs J was checking her online banking during 
the period of the disputed transactions and that the bank wrote to her after a direct debit was 
declined. But it seems Mrs J also didnt notice anything unusual. Overall, Im satisfied, TSB 
followed their procedures here. So, I dont think the bank did anything wrong. It follows that I 
dont think I can fairly tell them to pay Mrs J compensation for fraudulent activity occurring on 
her account. 
Mrs J has said that she wasnt able to make any online payments on her account since July 
2019, which is why she says couldnt make an online purchase on 25 November 2019. But 
like the investigator Ive not seen any evidence that this was the case. TSB has also 
confirmed that the payment Mrs J tried to make online on 25 November 2019, was stopped 
as a result of the fraud alert flag TSB had placed on Mrs Js account. And not because it had 
blocked Mrs Js account since July 2019. So, whilst I appreciate not being able to make a 
purchase for her son wouldve been inconvenient, I cant say the bank has done anything 
wrong when it blocked the payment. 
Im also satisfied that the bank has done enough to raise customer awareness and to 
educate customers about the types of fraud they might be exposed to, before Mrs J became 
a victim of fraudsters.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman