DRN-2651956
The complaint
T, through one of its directors Mr B, is unhappy because Barclays Bank UK PLC did not 
reimburse the money it transferred to a fraudster.
Although this is a complaint by T about its business account, I will refer to Mr B rather than 
the limited company throughout much of this decision as it was Mr B who chiefly interacted 
with the fraudster.
  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and I wont repeat it all here. 
Its not disputed by either party that T was contacted over email by a fraudster impersonating 
one of their suppliers. The fraudster, presumably through monitoring Ts email 
communications, was aware that a debt was owed by T to its supplier and asked for a 
£50,000 payment to be made to a new set of account details. Mr B made the payment 
through Ts online banking facility on 11 October 2019.
On 18 October 2019, after making contact with the genuine supplier, Mr B became aware of 
the scam. He reported it the same day. After being contacted by Barclays about the scam, 
the bank that received the money said they had been partially at fault for what had 
happened. So, they refunded £25,000.
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Barclays says that T ignored an 
effective warning and lacked a reasonable basis for believing the payment to be genuine. On 
that basis, it declined to provide any refund to T. It did, however, acknowledge that it had 
provided poor service and paid T £200 compensation to reflect this.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They neither thought Barclays provided 
an effective warning nor Mr B lacked a reasonable basis of belief. So, they recommended 
the complaint be upheld and the remaining £25,000 be refunded.
Barclays disagreed. It maintained T had ignored an effective warning, so thought it was fair 
for it only to have received half the money back. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Barclays should have refunded the money T lost.  
I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the 
circumstances of this case. 
The money was taken from Ts business current account and Im satisfied its been 
deprived of money it was going to use to pay its supplier, so the firm should also pay 
interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year from 2 
November 2019 (the date by which Barclays should have provided a refund under 
the CRM Code) to the date of payment.
I have carefully considered Barclays representations about the warning it gave and whether 
the consumer had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they 
do not persuade me to reach a different view. In particular I am not persuaded that T failed 
to take the requisite level of care required for Barclays to choose not to reimburse under the 
terms of the CRM Code.
Barclays have said Mr B would have seen the following warning after selecting the payment 
was for an invoice:
Could this be a scam?
Was this invoice unexpected? Does it have new account details? Fraudsters have been 
known to intercept genuine correspondence, including text messages, and change the 
account details to their own. 
Thats why we recommend checking the details of where youre sending the money to in 
person. If you were contacted by phone to pay this invoice, use a different phone to call the 
company so the call cant be diverted.
Mr B doesnt recall seeing this warning, instead he thinks he saw a warning about a different 
type of scam. He also believes that the warning above wasnt the one displayed at the time 
(even if invoice was selected as the payment reason) and that it was only displayed more 
recently. Ive reviewed Barclays technical evidence and Im satisfied that the reason for the 
payment was chosen as invoice  so its unlikely that Mr B saw a warning about a different 
scam. But Barclays havent demonstrated that this is definitely the warning that would have 
been in place at the time and neither have they shown exactly how it would have been 
displayed to Mr B.
I dont think its necessary to make a finding on either point as, even on the assumption that 
this was the warning Barclays provided and that it was displayed sufficiently prominently, I 
dont think Mr B ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate action in response 
to it. Ill explain why. 
Given the warning appears when a customer selects invoice as the reason for the payment, 
Im satisfied it is intended to prevent scams like the one T fell victim to  where fraudsters 
have intercepted genuine communication and provided new account details.
But the wording of the warning is unhelpful. It seems to put emphasis on an invoice being 
unexpected. Thats not how scams of this nature often work (and wasnt here). Fraudsters 
will frequently replace a genuine, expected, invoice with a fraudulent one. I can see why a 
customer reading this warning, who hadnt received an invoice unexpectedly, might 
reasonably think it didnt apply to them and may not have even gone onto read the rest of 
the warning. In addition, confirming account details in person or over the phone with the sender is almost 
always sufficient to prevent this type of scam. So, its crucial that the importance and 
relevance of doing this is explained (as well as the consequences of not doing it).
The warning does mention contacting someone in person (which, taken literally, could be 
an impractical step in many circumstances) but the warning fails to stress the importance of 
such a step or what the consequences of not taking it were. By not doing this, the warning 
lacked impact and was less likely to be effective for customers in Mr Bs position.
The warning also fails to really bring alive what a scam of this nature looks like - how a 
fraudster can gain access to and monitor email accounts so as to impersonate someone and 
send emails from their email address (or something which looks very similar). By failing to do 
this, it makes it much easier for a customer, like Mr B, not to recognise their own 
circumstances in the warning.
 
That may have been what happened here. Mr B appears to have been convinced the 
correspondence was genuine by the fact the fraudulent emails looked identical to genuine 
correspondence and referred to an existing debt. Without the warning describing these 
features, I can understand why Mr B (assuming it was the warning he saw) may not have 
appreciated it applied to his circumstances.
Overall I dont think Mr B ignored an effective warning or was unreasonable to proceed 
having seen it.
 
Since their initial submission to our service, Barclays have provided no further arguments in 
response to our investigators finding that Mr B did have a reasonable basis for belief in 
making the payment. So, I will comment on this aspect only briefly.
 
Im persuaded that Mr B did have a reasonable basis for belief in making the payment for 
broadly the same reasons as the investigator:
The fraudsters emails, in terms of appearance, are nearly identical to the genuine 
emails  making it very hard for Mr B, or anyone else, to tell them apart.
The fraudster had knowledge of the existence and circumstances surrounding a 
genuine debt and was able to almost seamlessly insert themselves into the 
conversation with the genuine supplier. They also appear to have used sophisticated 
techniques to divert Mr Bs replies and genuine emails sent by the supplier. As a 
result, Mr B had little reason to think that he wasnt communicating with the genuine 
supplier or that the payment request hadnt come from them.
The reason given by the fraudster for the new account details  that an audit was 
being carried out of the suppliers Euro account  wasnt so implausible that Id have 
expected Mr B to be concerned about whether the payment request was genuine.
The mere fact that Mr B could have checked the account details over the phone with the 
supplier does not equate to a finding that he lacked a reasonable basis for belief. Im 
satisfied that he had no particular reason to find the payment request unusual, did not doubt 
its authenticity and wasnt unreasonable in doing so. 
I understand the frustration felt by the representatives of T in the aftermath of the scam and 
it appears to have been given some conflicting information about the claim. However, I cant 
make an award for distress suffered by T and I think the £200 compensation already paid 
fairly reflects the inconvenience caused by having to chase up Barclays on a few occasions.
 Finally, Ive thought about Mr Bs comments that the payment was out of character for the 
account  being much larger than any previous payment. I dont dispute this  but I dont 
think the transaction sticks out as particularly unusual given the turnover of T and how the 
account was normally used. In any case, Ive found Barclays to be responsible for refunding 
the remaining loss  so such a finding would only have a limited impact on the overall 
outcome in that Barclays would be required to pay interest from the date of the disputed 
transaction rather than the date it ought to have refunded under the CRM Code.
   
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC  and I therefore require the bank to pay T:
The remaining 50% of the money lost - £25,000; and
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from 2 November 2019 to the 
date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman