DRN-3268574
The complaint
Mr B complains that Willis Corroon Financial Planning Limited (Willis Corroon) mis-sold him 
a mortgage endowment policy in 1996. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead Ill summarise what happened and focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
- Mr B was sold a mortgage endowment policy in 1996. It appears that it had a 25-year 
term and a target amount of £31,000. He said he was told it would pay off his 
mortgage and that thered also be a surplus.
- Mr Bs policy matured with a substantial shortfall. He said it was mis-sold as it wasnt 
suitable for him and the risks werent discussed. 
- Our investigator considered this complaint. He pointed out that there was little 
documentary evidence on which to draw conclusions around the advice given at the 
time of the sale. But he noted that, at the time, these with-profits policies had been 
performing well for a number of years and were considered to be very low risk. 
Based on Mr Bs circumstances, it was likely hed have been prepared to accept the 
low risk presented by the policy in return for the prospect of receiving a surplus. So 
he couldnt safely say the policy was mis-sold or unsuitable.
- Mr B disagreed. He said he didnt need life cover due to being single with no 
dependents, that his attitude to risk wasnt established, no fact find was completed 
during the sales process and no other repayment options were discussed. He also 
said there wasnt any discussion around a potential shortfall, where the funds would 
be invested or any fees and charges. He said he didnt invest in stocks and shares 
due to potential risks. 
- So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  and Ill explain 
why.
Theres very little evidence available in relation to this alleged mis-sale  neither party has 
been able to provide point of sale documentation. Given how long its been since the sale, 
this is understandable. Mr B has provided his recollections including what was and wasnt 
discussed. But I must consider that this is in relation to a sale that took place over 20 years 
ago, so the accuracy of those recollections is likely to have been affected by the passage of 
time. And, especially without point of sale documentation, Willis Corroon, cant reasonably 
be expected to provide its own persuasive account of what was and wasnt discussed during 
the sale. 
To uphold this complaint, Id need to be satisfied that the adviser did something wrong when 
the policy was sold. But, at that time, endowment policies were not only paying off mortgage 
they were attached to, but also often providing significant additional sums. While there was a 
risk associated with the policy, it would have been considered a low risk at the time. So, its 
likely the policy was presented to Mr B in a positive light and would have been expected to 
pay off his mortgage at the end of the term. 
As such, the type of policy Mr B was sold was considered appropriate for most consumers  
even those with a relatively low appetite for risk. So, Id need to see evidence that the policy 
was clearly inappropriate. And Im not persuaded, from the evidence available, that this with-
profits endowment policy, along with life cover, wasnt suitable for Mr B. Nor can I be 
confident of what was and wasnt discussed at the time, or even that Mr B accepted the 
recommendation of the adviser. 
I can appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr B, especially as hes now suffered a shortfall 
from the mortgage endowment policy he was sold. But Im afraid such situations are 
commonplace where the event complained about happened so long ago, and documentation 
is no longer available. I cant safely say that the business made an error when selling this 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman