DRN-3464331
The complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank PLC blocked his account without reason then closed it.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr M had a current account with Metro. On 17 November 2021 Mr M transferred £6,142 
into his Metro account from another account he held with a different business (N).
On the same day, N sent Metro an email that said it had concerns about a potential scan 
involving Mr M. N said it had asked Mr M some questions about a transfer and hed 
chosen to close his account. Metro blocked Mr Ms account on the same day.
On 24 November 2021 N sent another email that said Mr M had been in touch to raise 
concerns his account with Metro had been blocked. N confirmed its concerns related to 
funds Mr M wanted to transfer to another business. N said it didnt have concerns about 
the source of Mr Ms funds. N asked Metro to get in contact if it had any further questions.
Over the following two weeks Mr M repeatedly called Metro to ask for help removing the 
block on his account. On 7 December 2021 his account remained blocked and Mr M called 
Metro. During the call, Mr M became upset and distressed. He explained the impact of 
Metros block on his account and that he had no way of paying priority bills, his mortgage 
or living expenses. Mr M also explained that he was unable to work as he didnt have an 
active bank account.
During Mr Ms call on 7 December 2021 Mr M explained how frustrated the situation had 
made him feel and said he could react violently if he visited a branch.
On 8 December 2021 Metro discussed Mr Ms account with N again and on 9 December 
2021 his account block was removed. Metro didnt tell Mr M the block was removed or that 
he was able to use his account again. But Metro did write to Mr M on 9 December 2021 to 
say it was giving 60 days notice to close his account.
On 14 December 2021 Metro sent Mr M a letter giving seven days notice to close his 
account. It was closed on 21 December 2021. As Mr M hadnt been told his account was
unblocked before Metro took the decision to close it, he didnt transfer the remaining funds or
complete any transactions. As a result, Mr Ms money remained in his account when it was
closed.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator contacted Metro to make arrangements for Mr Ms funds to be released. 
Further delays occurred when a transfer wasnt correctly processed by Metro. Ultimately, 
Mr M had to visit a branch of Metro to receive his money.
The investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint and Metro agreed to pay him £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its actions. Mr M asked to appeal and said the £300 
settlement didnt reflect the impact of the problems raised. Mr M explained car and home 
insurance had been cancelled as a result of his insurers being unable to collect premiums. 
Mr M has also told us he had no access to another bank account and had to rely on 
friends and family during this time. As Mr M asked to appeal, his case has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several issues I need to consider when deciding how to fairly resolve Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill start by looking at the transfer Metro received on 17 November 2021 and its 
decision to block Mr Ms account.
Metro received a transfer for £6,142 and paid it to Mr Ms account. Metro also received an 
email from N that raised concerns over a transfer hed tried to make. Metro took the step 
of blocking Mr Ms account on receipt of Ns email. Ive read the message Metro received 
and whilst I understand the account terms allow it to block an account in certain 
circumstances, I think it shouldve done more to clarify the situation in this case. Instead, 
Metro blocked Mr Ms account and access to his funds. I cant see anything that shows it 
took urgent action to either clarify the reason for Ns email or contact Mr M for further 
information. But I can see Mr M repeatedly contacted Metro to ask how to resolve the 
matter.
N contacted Metro again on 24 November 2021 and confirmed it had no concerns about 
the origins of Mr Ms funds. But Metro still doesnt appear to have taken action to remove 
the block until it spoke with N on 8 December 2021, some two weeks later. At this stage, Mr 
M had no banking facilities and no access to his funds. I can see Metro was informed of Mr 
Ms circumstances throughout this period and that he was becoming increasingly 
distressed.
Whilst I understand Metro has to take measures against fraud, Im satisfied mistakes 
and unreasonable delays have had a substantial impact on Mr M. I havent seen 
anything that reasonably explains the length of time it took Metro to resolve the 
situation.
Metro says it took the decision to close Mr Ms account following his call on 7 December 
2021. Ive listened to this call. And I heard Mr M make use some aggressive language. That 
being said, I think its important to consider the context of Mr Ms call and the level of delays 
and lack of information hed been given over a period of three weeks. I also think its 
reasonable to say the call handler showed a lack of empathy and understanding to Mr M 
that increased his frustration.
Whilst I agree the comments Mr M made were unwise, Im satisfied they came about as a 
result of his distress and frustration at the lack of assistance and unexplained delays. Im 
surprised that, following his call, Metro took the decision to close Mr Ms account. Im further
surprised that despite initially giving Mr M 60 days notice it was reduced to a week a short 
time later.
A couple of days after that, Metro spoke with N and removed Mr Ms account block. But 
Metro didnt tell Mr M so he had no way of knowing his funds were unblocked. I recently 
asked Metro to explain why it took the step of reducing the notice period to close Mr Ms 
account from 60 to seven days. Metro says that was a commercial decision. But Im not 
persuaded the decision was fair for Mr M having taken the preceding events into account. Especially taking into account that Metro failed to notify Mr M the account blocks were 
removed in the short time available before it closed his account.
Further to the above, there were additional delays in releasing Mr Ms funds even after his 
account was closed. A transfer Mr M requested wasnt processed correctly. And Mr M was 
left with the only option of visiting a branch to obtain his funds. Given the reason Metro 
closed Mr Ms account I can understand why he felt it was particularly unfair that his only 
option was to visit a branch to obtain his funds. Mr M was only able to obtain his money in 
January 2022, around two months after the transfer was received from N.
Whilst I agree Mr M made some unwise comments during his call on 7 December 2021, Im 
satisfied Metro caused him a substantial level of distress and inconvenience over an 
extended period. Metro incorrectly interpreted Ns initial email and took too long to establish 
the reason behind Ns initial email. Looking at the level of contact Mr M made with Metro, I 
can see him becoming increasing frustrated, upset and despondent at the unexplained 
delays and lack of progress. I can find no reasonable explanation for the timescales 
involved in reviewing the account block Metro applied. As noted above, N specifically 
emailed Metro on 24 November 2021 to confirm it didnt have concerns that Mr M was 
attempting fraud. But it took a further two weeks before Metro spoke with N. Even after 
Metro confirmed Ns stance, it didnt notify Mr M the account block had been removed.
In the background, Mr M was repeatedly asking for Metros help without success. Mr M has 
explained he closed his bank account with N and his only other open account was with 
Metro. Mr M has also provided evidence to show insurance payments were returned 
unpaid and that he suffered significant inconvenience as a result of the way Metro handled 
his transfer. Whilst Im please Metro agreed to increase the settlement offered to Mr M, Im 
not persuaded that £300 is a fair reflection of the level of distress and inconvenience 
caused.
I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint and significantly increase the level of compensation 
awarded to reflect how he was impacted. In my view, Metro should pay Mr M £1,500 to 
reflect the distress a e way it handled his transfer and closed his account.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional information or comments they wanted 
me to take into account before I made my final decision. Mr M responded to confirm he 
accepted the provisional decision. Metro didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr M accepted and Metro failed to respond, I havent been given any new information to 
consider. As I havent been persuaded to change my view, Im going to proceed in line with 
the settlement I gave in the provisional decision. I still think Mr ms complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to pay him £1,500 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman