DRN-3348614
The complaint
Ms A complains about the service she received from Nationwide Building Society
(Nationwide) after she asked for support due to the impact of Covid-19. She says that
Nationwide declined her request for a payment holiday and placed her account in arrears,
which caused her distress and inconvenience as well as negatively impacting her credit file.
What happened
In January 2020, Ms A entered into a loan agreement with Nationwide. Her circumstances
changed as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and this affected her ability to make the loan
repayments. Ms A called Nationwide on or around 24 March 2020 to discuss the situation. At
that point, her account was up to date. Nationwide wasnt offering payment holidays at that
stage. But it put a nil payment plan on her account for the following month, meaning that no
payment would be due for April 2020. Nationwide says it advised Ms A to get in touch again
at the end of April or beginning of May to discuss her options and avoid any negative impact
on her credit file.
Shortly after this call, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released guidance which said
that firms had to offer payment holidays for customers who were negatively impacted by the
pandemic. It said that customers credit files shouldnt be affected by taking a payment
holiday.
Ms As payment date was the 7th of the month. She says she contacted Nationwide at the
beginning of May and was told to apply online for a payment holiday. She says she did this
before the May payment was due. Whilst waiting for a response to her request, she received
a Notice of Sums in Arrears from Nationwide, demanding payment. This was sent to her on
8 May 2020. Ms A also found out that Nationwide was reporting arrears on the account to
the Credit Reference Agencies.
She called Nationwide and was told that she wasnt eligible for the payment holiday as her
account was in arrears. Nationwide doesnt have a copy of the letter declining Ms As
payment holiday request, but it says the letter appears to have been sent on 16 May.
Ms A raised a complaint with Nationwide, following which it agreed to set up a three-month
payment holiday to start in July 2020. But it said it wouldnt stop reporting arrears accrued
before that to the Credit Reference Agencies. In September 2020, the payment holiday was
extended for another three months. Nationwide says it made an exception by doing this, as it
wouldnt usually have set up a payment holiday where a customers account was in arrears.
But Ms A wasnt happy about the negative entries on her credit file. She also queried the
loan balance and said it didnt take account of overpayments shed made.
Following further contact between the parties, Nationwide agreed to amend Ms As credit file
to remove the adverse entries from July to December 2020, covering the period when a
payment holiday was in place. It didnt agree to remove any adverse entries before that, as it
said that payments had been missed before the payment holiday was in place. It said the
outstanding balance was correct but suggested rewriting the loan or Ms A making a payment
to clear the arrears, so that no further negative entries would be made on her credit file.
Ms A remained unhappy with the situation and asked this service to look into it. I issued a 
provisional decision on 13 January 2022 and both parties have responded. Nationwide said 
it had nothing further to add. Ms A provided further comments. She says that, from early 
2021, the information held by Nationwide about her loan was incorrect. She says that, rather 
than admit this, Nationwide implied that she was deluded, causing her serious distress. Ms A 
provided further documents for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at everything again and considered Ms As comments and the information she 
has provided. Im sorry to disappoint her, but I havent seen anything which changes my 
mind about this complaint. So Im going to uphold it in the way I recommended in my 
provisional decision. My reasons are set out below.
Its not in dispute that the reason Ms A contacted Nationwide in March 2020 was because
Covid-19 had had a direct impact on her income. I understand why Nationwide didnt put a
payment holiday in place at the time of this first phone call. But I think it ought to have
granted a payment holiday when she applied in May as it was clear that shed been
negatively affected by the pandemic.
I dont think it was reasonable that Nationwide treated the account as being in arrears from
April 2020. Thats because it had agreed a nil payment plan for that month, following
proactive contact from Ms A in March 2020. I realise that the official guidance on how to treat
customers wasnt yet in place at the time of her call. But I dont think that should have put Ms
A at a disadvantage.
I think the FCA guidance ought to be applied retrospectively here. Ms A called Nationwide
when lockdown was announced. She did so because of the impact of Covid-19 on her
income. Her account was up-do-date at that point and there is no sign she was experiencing
financial difficulties before the pandemic. Its clear that she was affected by the pandemic
and was trying to manage her account responsibly. So I dont think its fair for her credit file
to be impacted simply because she requested help before the official guidance was
announced.
I can appreciate how distressing it was for Ms A to have her request for a payment holiday
declined and to receive arrears letters. I note that a further Notice of Sums in Arrears was
sent to her in October 2020, while the payment holiday was in place.
In order to put things right, I think Nationwide should remove any adverse information
reported to the Credit Reference Agencies from the day Ms A first called Nationwide, which I
understand to be on or around 24 March 2020. I also think it should pay her compensation
for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. Ms A has explained how the
situation affected her and I think compensation of £300 would be appropriate here.
I understand that Ms A has concerns about the accuracy of her account balance. There have 
been numerous communications between the parties about this. Im aware that a statement 
was sent to Ms A which didnt accurately reflect the transactions on her account. Nationwide 
says it was a statement showing the loan repayment schedule from start to finish which 
assumed that all payments had been made on time and in full. It didnt reflect what had 
actually happened. I think it was unhelpful that this was sent to Ms A and I can understand why she felt that 
Nationwide wasnt providing accurate information about her account. But I havent seen any 
evidence of incorrect information being provided to Ms A deliberately or maliciously. I think 
Nationwide was trying to send her the information she had requested, but there was 
confusion about what she wanted to know. 
The loan balance was affected by the missed payment and payment holiday, as I explained 
in my provisional decision. Interest continued to accrue on the loan during the payment 
holiday. So the amount outstanding on the loan at the end of the payment holiday was 
higher than it would have been if no payment holiday had been taken, for two reasons. 
Firstly, it includes the missed repayments. And, secondly, it includes the interest charged 
during the payment holiday, which would have been more than usual because the balance 
wasnt being reduced during that time. This means that, to pay off the loan within the existing 
term, the monthly payments need to increase.
Alternative ways of dealing with the increased balance are for the term of the loan to be
extended (so that the monthly payments dont have to increase) or for Ms A to make a one-
off payment to bring the account up to date, so that the monthly payments can stay at the
original level and the loan still be paid off at the end of the original term.
I note that Nationwide invited Ms A to make a payment to clear the arrears in full or, as an
alternative, offered to re-write the loan. But I dont think it explained the situation about the
balance to Ms A clearly and that has undoubtedly added to Ms As distress. I think
Nationwide could have clarified the position much earlier and Ive taken this into account
when deciding on the amount of compensation which needs to be paid here. But I dont think 
Nationwide deliberately provided incorrect information to Ms A or tried to cover this up. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that the information shown on Ms As regular statements is 
incorrect. So Im not going to ask Nationwide to do any more about this. 
The parties should now work together to agree a way forward, for example by re-writing the
loan or agreeing a payment plan.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should:
remove any adverse information reported to the Credit Reference Agencies from the
day of Ms As first call to Nationwide; and
pay Ms A compensation of £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman