DRN-3236409
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) took money out of her bank 
account which increased her overdraft balance.
What happened
Miss O says she checked her available balance using the telephone banking system on 28 
October 2021. Shed made a note of this to be around £246 which included her arranged 
overdraft of £300.
To avoid going further into her overdraft, Miss O transferred in £40 from her savings account 
into her bank account. When she checked her account on 30 November 2021, the available 
balance had dropped to around £157.
Miss O has explained she was shocked and upset by this as she only made one further 
transaction of £10, so she couldnt understand why her available balance had changed 
significantly. She said she hadnt made any further transactions and believes Halifax have 
taken money out of her account. She asked them to reimburse her.
Halifax said that theyd reviewed the account with Miss O, and she confirmed shed made all 
the transactions. They explained the balance was correct. Unhappy with this, Miss O 
referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator said that Halifax havent made an error as Miss O recognised all the 
transactions and there werent any discrepancies on her bank statement. Miss O disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Miss Os bank statement for the period in dispute. Having done so, like our 
investigator, Im satisfied the account balances are consistent with the transactions made on 
the account. Ill explain why.
The bank statement shows Miss O had a debit balance of £89.33 on 26 October 2021. This 
means she had £210.67 remaining for use. When Miss O credited her account with £40 on 
28 October 2021, it reduced her overdrawn balance to £49.33 and left her with £250.67. But 
this didnt include the expenses that were due out of Miss Os account from 28 October 2021 
and 1 November 2021 which amounted to £93.07.
Once these payments had been removed from the account, it increased Miss Os overdrawn 
balance from £49.33 to £142.40. This matches Miss Os statement, as the debit balance on 
1 November 2021, before she transferred further funds in, was also £142.40. This meant she 
had £157.60 available to spend.
Miss O has confirmed she recognises all the transactions on her account, and my analysis of 
the credits and debits match the balance on the statement. So, I cant see that theres 
money missing from Miss Os account. 
I know Miss O has explained shes diligent with her banking, as she notes down her 
available balance and pending transactions. But if Halifax had taken money from Miss Os 
account as shes suggested, then Id expect to see discrepancies in the balance within the 
bank statement. But this doesnt appear to be the case. 
I also appreciate Miss O says shes certain that the balance she had available to spend on 
28 October 2021 was around £246. However, pending transactions can be posted at 
different times during the day. So, its possible some of the expenses from Miss Os account 
was pending after she checked her balance, which may explain the confusion.
When Miss O raised her concerns, Halifax looked into her statement to check if there were 
any disputed or unrecognised transactions. They also checked that the balances were 
correct. This is what Id expect them to do in this situation.
All things considered, Im afraid there simply isnt enough evidence to show that Halifax took 
any money or that funds are missing from Miss Os account. So, I cant fairly agree that 
Halifax have done anything wrong here. 
I know Miss O will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope she feels reassured that 
money isnt missing from her account now someone independent has reviewed her 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman