DRN-3087166
The complaint
The estate of Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt calculated the compensation 
correctly for a mis-sold loan Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy. The estate of Mr D 
wants additional compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by delays to 
the payment of the compensation and the legal fees incurred in employing the services of a 
solicitor to act on its behalf.  
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by the 
adjudicator, so I havent repeated all of this information here.
Briefly:
In April 2019 HSBC upheld the estate of Mr Ds loan PPI mis-sale complaint and offered 
compensation. 
Over the course of the next 18 months there were various exchanges of correspondence 
between the estate of Mr D, HSBC, and the estate of Mr Ds legal representative to provide 
the necessary information and documentation to allow HSBC to make payment of the PPI 
compensation.
HSBC paid half of the compensation to the estate of Mr D in December 2020. And it made a 
further payment in June 2021 after a delay of around four months from receipt of the final 
piece of signed documentation. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and in summary they concluded that the 
PPI compensation had been calculated correctly and represents fair compensation. But they 
acknowledged there was a delay in making the second half of the compensation and they 
recommended HSBC recalculate its offer to bring the 8% interest element of the second half  
of the compensation up to date to reflect the date of payment, which HSBC hadnt done. 
HSBC also said it was willing to offer £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
The estate of Mr D disagrees that HSBC has calculated the offer fairly; in particular it doesnt 
believe the 8% interest element of the compensation has been calculated correctly. It has 
highlighted a discrepancy in the various figures quoted by HSBC, which it says supports its 
view that the figures arent right. It wants a full breakdown of whats been paid and what 
should be paid to bring the interest element up to date.
Because the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that HSBC has calculated the PPI compensation correctly and 
in-line with our guidance. But to represent overall fair compensation, Ive decided that HSBC 
should bring its compensation payment up to date to reflect the delay in payment and 
resulting inconvenience caused to the estate of Mr D and make payment as it has agreed to 
do. My reasons are set out below.
But before I give my reasons, I think its necessary for me to explain an important point. I 
need to make a clear distinction here between the estate of Mr D and the representatives of 
the estate dealing with the complaint. This is important because I can see the 
representatives have talked about the distress and inconvenience HSBC has caused.
But this is a complaint about the estate of Mr D. An estate cannot suffer pain or distress -
albeit I think it can experience inconvenience or delay, which I will talk about below. 
And I cannot make a distress and inconvenience or cost award to third parties. And this
includes executors or representatives of an estate. I do not have the power to direct a
business to make payments to third parties. So I cannot make any award for their distress, 
pain, or inconvenience.
I can see that HSBC has offered to make a payment of £150 to one of the representatives of 
the estate in recognition of the delay and inconvenience caused. But for the reasons Ive 
described above, I wont express an opinion about this here. HSBC should nevertheless 
make payment as it has offered to do.
I can see the estate of Mr D has also asked for a cost award to reflect the legal fees it has 
incurred in bringing this complaint. But I wont be making such an award. In addition to what 
Ive said above about not making cost awards to third parties, it was ultimately the estate of 
Mr Ds decision to employ the services of a representative  it wasnt something it had to do 
to pursue this complaint.
Turning now to HSBCs offer of compensation for the upheld loan PPI mis-selling complaint 
 Im satisfied HSBCs offer has been caried out in line with our guidance and the calculation 
methodology is fair. But Id like to expand on my reasoning for why there is an apparent 
discrepancy in the amounts HSBC says it has paid. 
Firstly - the aim of redressing mis-sold PPI is to put the estate of Mr D back in the position it 
would have been in had PPI not being taken out. To do this HSBC should calculate how 
much extra each month the late Mr D paid toward the loan and refund this along with 
compensatory interest at a rate of 8% on each monthly payment from the date it was paid to 
when it is paid back. 
I can see that HSBC did this and it communicated its offer in a letter to the estate of Mr D on 
3 April 2020. Here it provided the necessary breakdown of the compensation (divided by two 
to reflect that it agreed to pay two equal shares of the compensation to the representatives 
of the estate of Mr D) quoting the PPI premiums paid (£508.13), the gross taxable interest 
(£796.60), the deduction for basic rate income tax (£159.32) and the resulting total due 
(£1,145.41).
But payment of the first half of the compensation wasnt paid until December 2020  some 
eight months after the calculation date. And I can see that this payment was greater than the 
half share stated in the April offer letter.
It appears that HSBC did in fact bring the offer up to date and it increased the 8% interest 
element to the date of the December 2020 payment. I think this explains the apparent discrepancy with the figures the estate of Mr D has highlighted, which I will expand on below. 
I can also see the adjudicator wrongly attributed these figures to the original April 2020 
calculation in their letter of 16 September 2021 - but the revised figures were gross taxable 
interest (£829.23), the deduction for basic rate income tax (£165.85) and a net figure paid 
(£663.38). 
Taking everything into account, including the more detailed calculation methodology HSBC 
has provided, Im satisfied that the first payment of compensation HSBC made in December 
2020 represents fair compensation.
But despite HSBC receiving the necessary paperwork to facilitate payment in February 
2021, it didnt make the second share of the compensation payment until June 2021. And it 
didnt bring the compensatory interest element up to date to reflect the delay. I think the 
estate of Mr D was inconvenienced by this because it was out of the money - so it should be 
compensated for this. And I think bringing the compensatory interest element up to date to 
reflect the June 2021 payment date for this share of the compensation fairly addresses this 
(and which HSBC has already agreed to do.)
HSBCs letter of 18 August 2021 set out the revised calculation. This show the taxable 
interest (£681.27) and the deduction for basic rate income tax (£170.32). And while not 
quoted, the gross interest figure is £851.59. The letter highlighted that a payment of £22.36 
was due  the difference between £663.38 already paid and the revised amount of £681.27.
Im satisfied the above explains the apparent discrepancy the estate of Mr D has highlighted 
and why it is surprised that the additional compensatory interest figure is small. As I have 
shown it is because the interest element was updated in December 2020. So the revised 
calculation is not accounting for additional 8% interest between April 2020 and June 2021  
but rather between December 2020 and June 2021. 
Im satisfied HSBC has calculated this in line with what I would expect  so I consider it is 
fair compensation.
I can see the estate of Mr D has provided its own calculations of the 8% interest element of 
the compensation, which it says shows HSBC figures are incorrect. But I dont agree. The 
estate of Mr Ds calculations are somewhat rudimentary. As I set out above, the 8% interest 
element is calculated on each monthly overpayment from when it fell due to when it was paid 
back to reflect the actual time the estate of Mr D was deprived of monies or loss of 
investment opportunity. So for example, the first PPI payment paid (in this case in 1998) will 
have a larger 8% compensatory interest figure attached to it than the last PPI payment, 
which was paid almost three years later towards the end of 2001. 
So as I have concluded above, Im satisfied HSBCs calculation of PPI compensation in this 
case is fair.
The estate of Mr D has repeated its request for HSBC to provide a further breakdown of the 
compensation and a more detailed calculation. But Im satisfied that HSBC has already 
provided what I consider to be sufficient breakdown of what it has paid as I have detailed 
above. I think this along with the information I have set out in my decision is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances  I wont be asking HSBC to do anything more here.
Putting things right
HSBC should:pay the estate of Mr D the updated PPI compensatory interest element of the redress 
owed (an amount of £22.36) in recognition of the inconvenience caused by the delay in 
payment.
pay the estate of Mr D £1501 as it has offered to do to reflect the delay and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided that HSBC Bank UK Plc has calculated the estate of Mr 
Ds loan PPI compensation fairly. But to reflect the inconvenience caused by the delay in 
payment of the second share of the compensation, HSBC Bank UK Plc should pay the 
estate of Mr D  if it hasnt already done so - the updated compensatory interest element as 
set out above. And I think this represents fair compensation overall.
HSBC Bank UK Plc should also pay the estate of Mr D £150 as set out above  if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
1 This offer was made in connection with two complaints brought by the estate of Mr D  only one 
payment of £150 should be paid.