DRN-3223846
The complaint
Ms C complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) will not allow 
her to cash in her annuities with it.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in a provisional 
decision. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
In 2005 Ms C took benefits from a personal pension she held with Prudential. This pays her an 
annuity of £80.52 a year in half year instalments and tax-free cash was paid at the time. Then in 
2006, she took out another annuity from another policy with tax-free cash paid. The annuity pays 
£142.08 in monthly instalments of £11.84.
Ms C says she has contacted Prudential a number of times to ask whether her annuity paying 
£11.84 a month can be cashed in or stopped altogether or paid to charity. Shes explained this 
annuity means she isnt entitled to pension credit. And this is very important to her as she would 
then be entitled to free health care options which she needs for her health conditions.
Prudential said legislation did allow annuities valued under £10,000 to be cashed in but this was 
at providers discretion and it had chosen not to offer this.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Prudential has been fair and reasonable in its stance that it will not offer 
Ms C a cash value for her annuity.
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that scheme 
if
(a)the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is 
met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and make 
payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes cashing-in of 
annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What this means is the schemes are allowed to make 
these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Ms Cs position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it can, but 
only up to a limit of £10,000.
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance? 
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally 
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Principles for Businesses
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of their 
business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should act in 
the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the expense of other 
customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without consideration of other factors or 
wider implications.
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal arrangement 
with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could cause issues with 
commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively affect 
the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case
1. Does Prudential have discretion to commute Ms Cs annuity as requested? For 
example:
-Is the value under £10,000?
-Is Ms C the legal owner of the annuity?
-Is Prudential the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2. If Prudential is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Ms Cs best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
-Would it expose her to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
-Would it affect other income that she relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3. If Prudential was free to grant Ms Cs request to commute the annuity and doing so 
would have been in her best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Prudential to 
refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way?
My findings in light of the above considerations
Prudential hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to 
allow Ms C to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have discretion to 
commute her annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Ms C to show that she would be worse off if she 
were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Considering the size of her annuities, it does 
appear that a cash lump sum would be more beneficial for Ms C in place of an annuity. So I 
accept her position that shed benefit more from a cash lump sum, even if small. For these 
reasons, and subject to the lump sum value (which hasnt been determined), Ive proceeded also 
on the basis that it would be in Ms Cs personal interest to encash this annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether Prudential fairly took into account Ms Cs interests 
when it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow Ms C to cash-in her annuity. I think it did.
Prudential has told us it is unwilling at this point in time to offer a cash in value to Ms C, 
essentially because the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in, so it would be difficult 
to offer that option now without incurring significant cost and inconvenience  and possibly to 
the detriment of other customers. It made a number of points about this, for example:
-Offering commutation to Ms C simply because the annuity is small means it would have 
to offer the same option to all customers with small annuities. Otherwise, it wouldnt be 
treating its customers consistently (and therefore fairly). It doesnt have the systems and 
processes in place to facilitate significant numbers of commutations.
-Without appropriate processes and checks, customers could be exposed to the risk of 
poor outcomes.
-Designing an appropriate framework to allow a commutation option would require 
significant time, planning and regulator engagement (and presumably cost).-Annuities are long-term commitments, backed by long-term and illiquid assets, so 
cash values arent easily realised.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think Prudentials points are fair ones. I dont think 
Prudential simply disregarded Ms Cs interests in this case. Its position is based on its 
considerations of what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business model 
more widely.
It seems to me that Prudential could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to treat 
Ms Cs case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a business 
the size of Prudential. However, I acknowledge Prudentials difficulty here. Im not persuaded 
there is reason in Ms Cs case to treat her differently to other customers with small annuities. (Its 
my understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Ms C would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the 
annuity isnt useful to her. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt 
something Ms C had a right to. And while Prudential was free to allow her request, Im 
satisfied it did have other legitimate interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity 
product was designed, the impact on Prudentials existing systems and processes, the 
interests of its customers more widely and the potential cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Prudential to decline Ms Cs request. 
It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Ms C in line with other customers.
Ms Cs has asked for the annuity to be stopped altogether or paid to charity so that she can 
access pension credit and the benefits that come with that. But this is a state benefit with 
eligibility criteria and whilst I appreciate it would be very useful for Ms C  I dont think it would 
be fair to ask Prudential to help Ms C get around this. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that 
purposely reducing an income would equal eligibility for state benefits  as this is against the 
intention of the legislation.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities and Im 
aware that some businesses have previously offered cash values to customers. If in the future 
Prudential changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its possible Ms C 
may benefit from such a change. But I cannot fairly say Prudential must change its position at 
present, in the circumstances Ive considered in this decision.
I appreciate Ms C will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not 
intending to uphold her complaint.
Ms C hasnt added anything new or substantive following the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings reached in my provisional 
decision. And so my final decision remains the same and as set out above.
In summary, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Prudential to decline Ms Cs 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Ms C in line with other 
customers.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman