DRN-3062020
The complaint
Mrs M complains about her insurance policy underwritten by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc (RSA).
Although Mrs Ms complaint has been directed to the claims handler of this policy  as RSA 
were the underwrites, they would be responsible for any complaints. When I mention RSA, it 
includes its agents. 
 
What happened
Mrs M held a landlord emergency policy underwritten by RSA. 
In February 2021, Mrs M called to ask for a visit from an engineer to inspect a boiler/hot 
water problem. 
An engineer came out to inspect the boiler, but Mrs M says it was a day after they were 
scheduled to visit, and as she waited in all day for the engineer she should be compensated. 
Mrs M has also raised a complaint with RSA about the cost of the labour. She says the 
engineer only attended for 30 minutes on his first call out and as she has one-hour free 
cover included in her policy, the remaining 30 minutes shouldve been added to the second 
call out. Mrs M says she was told this would happen when she called and spoke to an 
advisor at RSA. 
RSA looked into the complaint and upheld it. RSA said the engineer got stuck behind an 
accident on the day of the first call out and had to attend the following day. RSA went on to 
say the engineer tried to contact Mrs M, but couldnt get through. As he didnt attempt to call 
the tenants, due to not having their number, RSA offered £25 compensation. RSA did find 
Mrs M was given some incorrect information regarding rolling the remaining labour time over 
on to the next visit, but this was corrected on a subsequent phone call. As Mrs M remained 
unhappy with the compensation amount, she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought RSA had offered a fair amount of 
compensation. Our investigator found that even though the delay of a day was out of the 
engineers hands, he found the £25 was fair compensation for not informing both Mrs M and 
the tenant. 
Our investigator went on to say that although it was clear there had been a 
miscommunication on the phone call with Mrs M regarding the labour costs. Mrs M had been 
given the correct information shortly after, and RSA were acting in line with the terms of her 
policy when they have charged for the additional labour cost. As our investigator didnt find 
this error had caused Mrs M any detriment, he didnt recommend increasing the 
compensation amount. 
Mrs M disagreed with our investigators view. So, the complains been passed to me to issue 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the information given to me by both parties, Ive come to the same 
outcome as the investigator  for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Labour cost
As our investigator has pointed out, Mrs Ms policy included one hours labour at no cost to 
the policy holder. I appreciate Mrs M thinks that any remaining time from this visit should be 
rolled over to other call outs, but thats not how a policy like this works. Mrs Ms policy covers 
for up to an hours worth of work on each visit, so any time after that would be chargeable  
as it has been in this case. Mrs M wasnt charged for the first visit or the first hour of the 
second visit, which is in line with her policy. Im satisfied that the second hour of the second 
visit is chargeable in line with the policy. So, it follows that I dont find RSA have acted 
unfairly when they have charged the additional amount. 
Phone call
Its clear from listening to the calls between Mrs M and the advisor at RSA that she was 
given incorrect information. I can also see that the incorrect information was corrected. As 
this information was given when making the claim, its clear Mrs M didnt rely on this when 
choosing the policy. When a mistake like this happens, we look at how quickly the business 
corrects the mistake and the impact it had on the consumer. On this occasion it was 
corrected immediately, and I cant see Mrs M has suffered any detriment or paid more than 
she should have because of the mistake. And the investigator has rightly pointed out, we 
wouldnt look to put a consumer back in the position of the incorrect information. 
Missed visit
Mrs M is clearly frustrated that the planned visit from the engineer didnt happen and was 
completed the following day. In assessing these types of complaints, our service will look at 
the reason for the missed visit, what the business done to minimise the impact and how long 
it delayed the work by. On this occasion, Im satisfied that the reason for the delay was out of 
the engineers control. The engineer to an extent did try to contact Mrs M, but couldnt get 
through. RSA have highlighted that the engineer shouldve had a number for the tenants, but 
on this occasion it was Mrs M that was waiting in for the visit, so Im not sure how much 
difference this wouldve made to the course of events. The delays caused by the engineer 
not making the first appointment were only a day, as they made it to the tenants property the 
following day. So, Im satisfied RSA did minimise the impact as much as it possibly couldve 
done. Having said that, I can understand Mrs Ms frustration, and Im satisfied RSA have 
paid Mrs M a fair level of compensation to make up for that frustration and the day off work 
she says she took waiting in.
Mrs M has complained that the engineer turned up unannounced the following day. As the 
tenants were present in the property and the repair was completed, I dont find there is any 
detriment been suffered by Mrs M here. Further issues 
Mrs M also raised further issues with her boiler after the repair was completed. RSA sent an 
engineer out to inspect the work and found no issues with the boiler or repair. Mrs M then 
raised a further complaint and RSA asked Mrs M to provide an inspection report. Given the 
engineer found no fault on his visit, I find this a reasonable request. Since the complaint, Mrs 
M hasnt followed this up with RSA or raised any further issues.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or require RSA to increase its offer of 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman