DRN-2838772
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly lent to 
her when it gave her a credit card.
  
What happened
In August 2018, Miss B took out a credit card account with Barclaycard. She took out the 
card online and was given a credit limit of £8,000. Miss B says that she couldnt afford a 
credit limit this high, and that had Barclaycard done proper checks on her financial position 
then it would have realised this.
Miss B says she had lots of lending elsewhere, and she was also nearly at her overdraft limit 
when Barclaycard gave her the credit facility. Miss B also tells us that she was in a difficult 
relationship at the time, and she had to support her ex-partner financially as he had a 
gambling addiction. 
To settle this complaint, Miss B would like Barclaycard to refund any interest that she has 
already paid, and to freeze any further interest on the account to allow her to repay the 
balance.
Barclaycard looked into things for Miss B but it didnt uphold her complaint. It said that when 
it considered her application, it took into account information from the credit reference 
agency (CRA) and reviewed this against its internal lending criteria. It also stated that Miss B 
have moved one of her other lending balances to her Barclaycard on a 0% promotional rate. 
However, it did note Miss Bs comments that she was now struggling financially and agreed 
to refund the last interest charge of £114.86.
Our investigator looked into things too. Initially, he didnt find that Barclaycard had done 
anything wrong when it agreed to lend her the money. And that Miss B could afford the 
monthly repayments. 
However, Miss B responded to our investigator to say that, although she told Barclaycard on 
her application that she was living with her parents, she was in fact living with her partner 
and paying more in rent and bills than Barclaycard thought she was  she sent in statements 
to show this. Miss B also told us that she had more debt than Barclaycard had realised too. 
And sent in evidence of this from her credit report. 
Based on this new information, our investigator changed their mind. He thought that if 
Barclaycard had asked Miss B more questions about her other financial commitments, and 
other outgoings, then it would have realised that a credit card with a limit of £8000 would 
have been unaffordable for her. Because of this, our investigator said Barclaycard should put 
things right for Miss B by refunding interest and charges and removing any adverse 
information from her credit file. 
Barclaycard didnt agree with our investigator. It said that Miss B had told them that she was 
living with her parents, and because of this, it had estimated her rent and living costs based 
on the regional data is normally uses. 
It also said that the CRA it used didnt provide any information about the other lending that is 
visible on Miss Bs credit report. It said that it cant be held responsible for this, and that Miss 
B would need to complain to that CRA about the information it held about her at that time. It 
also said that the information about the other lending she had might not have been available 
on the credit report because she might have used a different address or the lender might 
have taken time to register the account with the CRA, or that particular lender might not 
provide data to the CRA Barclaycard have used.
It also said that there wasnt anything on Miss Bs application or credit report that would have 
prompted it to do any additional checks.
Because Barclaycard didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision 
on the matter.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its probably worth starting by setting out what a business, in this case Barclaycard, is 
required to do before it agrees to lend to a customer. 
Essentially, and amongst other things, the rules say that a lender must carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks to ensure that a customer can repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
The checks must be borrower focussed, which means it needs to take into account the 
customers overall situation, and not just determine the likelihood of the lender being able to 
get their money back.
Reasonable and proportionate checks arent defined in the rules, but the rules do state what 
types of things a business should consider  for example, the type of credit, the amount of 
credit (in this case the credit limit) etc. And we generally take the view that these checks 
ought to take into account the customers personal circumstances  for example, income, 
amount of lending elsewhere etc. What this means is that Barclaycard needed to check that 
Miss B would be able to afford to repay the debt it was planning on giving her  in a 
sustainable way, while taking into account things like her income and the lending she 
already had elsewhere. 
Firstly, Ill address the inconsistencies in the information Miss B input on her application. 
Miss B told Barclaycard that she was living with her parents at the time she applied for the 
credit card  she said shed been living there for three years. Because of this, Barclaycard 
used a system to determine how much Miss B was likely to be paying in rent. It took into 
account that its unlikely she would have been paying household bills. And it estimated her 
living costs. The data it uses to estimate these figures is based regional statistics. Its 
generally accepted that this, on the face of things, is a reasonable way to assess a persons 
outgoings when living with parents. 
Because Miss B told Barclaycard she was living with her parents, Barclaycard estimated that 
shed be paying around £233 a month in rent, and have general living expenses of around 
£202 (a total of £435 outgoing). Which, as it turns out, is less than what she was actually 
paying.
Miss B has sent this service information to show she wasnt living with her parents but was 
living with her partner at the time she applied for the card. Because of this, she was making monthly payments for rent and household bills, that Barclaycard werent aware of. Miss B 
has sent this service her statements to prove this, and I can see that shes paying around 
£871 in total towards household costs. Miss B says that she paid this alone but based on 
what Ive seen from her bank account statements, Im not certain this is the case. I can see 
payments into Miss Bs account each month from her ex-partner that total around £692. 
While I dont know how the household bills were split, or what these payments were for, it 
does appear that he was contributing towards something. So, I dont find it likely that Miss B 
was paying the full £871 a month out of her own salary. 
In any event, I need to think about whether Barclaycard had any reason to ask any further 
questions about Miss Bs living situation  given the information it had. And I dont think it 
did. I dont see why it would have any reason to question what Miss B put on the application 
 and the information it got from the CRA confirmed that she had taken out other credit at 
that address (in fact the address she was actually living at doesnt appear on her credit 
report at all). Our investigator did ask Miss B why she didnt give Barclaycard her actual 
address, but she said that she was going through a stressful time and wasnt sure why shed 
done that. It isnt very clear to me why Miss B told Barclaycard she was living with her 
parents when she wasnt. But based on this, I dont think it was unfair of Barclaycard to 
make the assumptions it has done, and I dont find it did anything wrong when it estimated 
that Miss Bs outgoings were £435 a month.
On Miss Bs application, she told Barclaycard that she was earning £23,875 per year. I can 
see Barclaycard have calculated that her net monthly income would likely be around £1635. 
Ive checked Miss Bs statements, and it appears that she usually gets a bit less than this 
and she generally appears to get paid around £1593 per month. Given the amount 
Barclaycard were intending to lend to Miss B, around 33% of her gross annual income, I 
think it could have done more to check this. 
Barclaycard say it checked information that the CRA holds about Miss B before agreeing to 
lend to her. It said that the checks came back to show she manages her other accounts well. 
The CRA data it got showed that Miss B had two credit card accounts, a loan and an 
overdraft facility. It said that the total balance of the lending was around £10,300 and the 
monthly outgoings for this lending was around £295.
But Miss B has shown this service a copy of her credit report. This shows that she has more 
lending than Barclaycards report showed. Miss B in fact had, at the time of application, two 
credit cards, two loans, a hire purchase agreement and an overdraft. The total outstanding 
balance on these accounts for around the time of application was circa £42,309. And the 
total monthly repayment amount for these accounts was around £792  this doesnt include 
any repayment amount shed need to make to her Barclaycard. This is significantly different 
to the information Barclaycard obtained about her other commitments.
Barclaycard say that this isnt their fault, and they couldnt have known this because they 
relied on data from the CRA. But I dont agree. Looking at the application form Miss B was 
asked to complete, I cant see that it asked her any specific questions about the lending she 
had elsewhere. Had it done this, it might well have found out that Miss B did have a high 
level of debt elsewhere and that her outgoings for this debt was already high. I would have 
expected Barclaycard to find out more about Miss Bs financial commitments. I say this 
because an £8,000 credit limit is high, when considering her income was £23,875.
And while Barclaycard might use the argument that she transferred some of her other 
balance onto her Barclaycard at a promotional rate, I dont think Barclaycard could have 
been certain she was going to do this  it would have needed to be satisfied that she could 
manage all of the credit she had  without any of it being transferred at a promotional rate, 
as there was no guarantee that she would utilise the offer. Barclaycard also state that the reason the other lending wasnt showing on her credit report 
could be because she used a different address to the one she gave Barclaycard. Ive 
thought about this, but I dont think this is the case. Miss B had these other accounts since 
January 2016 and December 2017. She has told us that she was living with her parents at 
that time. And the credit report she has provided us show her parents address against these 
lenders. So it isnt clear why the check Barclaycard carried out didnt pick up on the other 
lending Miss B had at the time  but I dont think this is as a result of something Miss B had 
done wrong. 
The only other explanations that Barclaycard has is that either the lenders Miss B used dont 
send its customers account data to the CRA Barclaycard used. Or that the lenders she had 
used had just taken a long time to register the debt with the CRAs. I agree that both of these 
things are possible. But I dont find that either of these to be Miss Bs fault. If Barclaycard are 
using a CRA it knows not all lenders use, then Barclaycard ought to be aware that 
sometimes the information it gets from its CRA might not be as accurate as it could be  
because it doesnt record all accounts. If this is the case, then I would expect Barclaycard to 
at least attempt to verify the information it got from the CRA before agreeing to lend Miss B a 
substantial amount of money. Secondly, if it is known that some lenders take more time to 
register accounts with the CRA, then I only see this as an additional reason as to why 
Barclaycard ought to have done more to check the information it got from the CRA was 
correct.
I havent seen anything from Barclaycard that shows me where it verified the level of 
borrowing the CRA reported. Id have expected it to do this given what Barclaycard already 
knew about the potential inaccuracy of the data provided by the CRA, the amount it intended 
to lend to Miss B and the amount she was earning. So, I dont think I can fairly say that it 
carried out a sufficient level of check on Miss B before agreeing to lend to her. If Barclaycard 
had done more checks on Miss B, then I dont think it likely it would have found that an 
£8,000 limit was affordable to her.
I say this because, based on my calculations, after Miss B had paid rent, living costs (£435), 
payments to existing lenders (approx. £792) she would have only been left with around £366 
per month  and this is before she made any repayments to the Barclaycard. If Miss B had 
maxed the £8,000 limit on the Barclaycard, shed need to have been paying around £270 per 
month in order to repay the balance within a reasonable period of time. So, this would have 
left Miss B with £92 per month disposable income. But as we know, in reality it would have 
been less than this given what we now know about Miss Bs living situation.
I accept that Miss B could have been more accurate with the information she gave 
Barclaycard about her living situation  this inaccuracy led to Barclaycard making, what we 
now know, to be an incorrect assumption of her outgoings. As Ive said, I dont think it was 
unfair of Barclaycard to do this. But even taking this into account, Miss B had a 
proportionally high level of debt elsewhere that I think Barclaycard should (had it carried out 
the appropriate checks) have been aware of. And because of this, I dont find that an £8000 
limit was affordable to her. 
So the next question I need to think about is has Miss B lost out as a result of what 
Barclaycard has done wrong? And I think she has. Miss B has told us that she struggled 
financially after Barclaycard gave her the credit card, this is evident from looking at her 
current account statements. Barclaycard has only added to her overall indebtedness and 
added additional pressure to her financial position  which she says has, understandably, 
caused her stress and anxiety. I can see that the balance on Miss Bs Barclaycard account 
was initially on a 0% promotional offer but has since reverted to the standard variable rate  
which has no doubt been even more difficult to manage.  Where credit has been provided when it shouldnt have been, it would be fair and reasonable
for the lender to refund any interest and charges paid by the borrower (if there were any). 
And the borrower would be expected to repay any remaining amount of the funds they were 
given. So, Id expect Miss B to pay back the funds she was lent  when she used her card  
but not the interest or any other charges it might have applied. Id also expect Barclaycard to 
remove any adverse information it has reported to the CRA about this account.
  
Putting things right
To put things right for Miss B, I order Barclaycard to:
rework the account to ensure that no interest is charged on the balance of the 
account to reflect the fact that no credit should have been provided. All late payment 
and over limit fees should also be removed; and
if an outstanding balance remains on Miss Bs account once all adjustments have 
been made Barclaycard should contact Miss B to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. 
if the effect of all adjustments results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Miss B 
along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information from Miss Bs credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. Barclaycard must give Miss B a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint. I now order  Barclays Bank UK 
PLC  trading as Barclaycard to put thigs right for Miss B by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman