DRN-3642486
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Nationwide Building Society deliberately undervalued their 
property so that their mortgage would be on a higher interest rate. They also complain about 
poor service, misleading communications and wasting their time. Theyd like it to apply a 
lower interest rate and pay compensation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ss interest rate product was due to expire at the end of June 2022. In April 2022 
they applied via a broker for a product switch and additional borrowing. They complain that 
the property valuations carried out on behalf of Nationwide were too low, excluding them 
from products in the lowest loan to value (LTV) range. Mr S says this isnt compatible with 
regulations that are about to come into force and will cost them about £70 per year more.
Our investigator said Nationwide followed its process and was entitled to rely on the expert 
opinion of the surveyor. He said while some of the messages sent by Nationwide could have 
been clearer there hadnt been any delays with the application. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They asked what the basis of the valuation was, given comments 
the surveyor had made to them. And said Nationwide had acknowledged its service was 
poor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said hed send a fuller response to the investigators view. The deadline for further 
comments has passed. Im able to reach a fair decision based on the available information 
and evidence, and in fairness to both parties I need to resolve this complaint without further 
delays. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Nationwide says it uses an automated valuation for product switches. I cant see that it was 
incorrect or unfair for it to use an automated valuation when Mr and Mrs S applied for a 
product switch in early April 2022.
Mr and Mrs S appealed the valuation as theyd extended and improved the property  which 
an automated valuation wouldnt take into account. Mr and Mrs S say they had to spend 
about five hours putting together evidence of the work. Nationwide increased the valuation. 
Mr and Mrs S say the valuation was still too low, but they accepted it as they were able to 
take out a product in the under 60% LTV range.
Mr and Mrs Ss broker re-applied for the product switch, and Nationwide confirmed the 
product (a ten-year fixed rate) would apply from their chosen date.
Mr and Mrs Ss broker then applied on their behalf for additional borrowing. Nationwide said 
it needed a physical valuation because of the additional borrowing and the increase in the 
loan to value. 
The valuation was carried out on 8 April 2022. The valuer gave the property a value of 
£425,000. This was less than Mr and Mrs S thought the property was worth, and less than it 
needed it to be for the additional borrowing to be in the under 60% LTV range. They 
received an offer for the additional borrowing on 19 April 2022.
Nationwide appointed an associate of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors to do the 
valuation. I think the valuer was suitably qualified. The valuation was for lending purposes, to 
establish whether the property was suitable security for the additional loan and assist 
Nationwide in deciding whether and how much to lend. Generally, Id say its reasonable for 
lenders to rely on the expert opinion of a valuer. This wouldnt be the case if, for instance, 
there was an obvious error in the valuation.
Mr and Mrs S say the valuer didnt look at the information given to them by an estate agent 
who said he could sell their property for about £75,000 more than the valuation. Its likely 
though that the valuer would have had access to similar information about property sales 
and values in the area as the estate agent. 
Mr and Mrs S say the valuer told them the amount people pay for a house doesnt mean its 
worth that much  a statement they strongly disagree with. Mr S says this is how virtually 
every item in the UK is valued. But Mr and Mrs Ss property wasnt being sold and the value 
couldnt be established in that way. The valuer had to provide an opinion about what the 
property could be sold for.
I dont think its reasonable to require Nationwide to substitute the valuers opinion with the 
value given by an estate agent or Mr and Mrs Ss own opinion of the value of their property. 
Mr S says he spoke to someone at Nationwide who agreed the valuation seemed very 
conservative. But again, I cant see that it would be reasonable for me to require Nationwide 
to substitute the opinion of the valuer with that of the staff member Mr S spoke to.
I cant see that there was an obvious error in the valuation that meant it was unreasonable 
for Nationwide to rely on the expert opinion of the valuer.
I appreciate that the application process might have felt disjointed, with separate applications 
and valuations for the product switch and additional borrowing. Mr and Mrs S were taking 
mortgage advice from a broker who would have been primarily responsible for advising them 
about the applications. Perhaps the broker applied for the product switch first to secure a 
lower rate for the larger part of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage before applying for the additional 
borrowing. Overall, I think Nationwide dealt with the applications in a reasonable timescale 
and in accordance with its process. I dont think it treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly.
Mr and Mrs S received messages from Nationwide which were automatically generated. 
Mr S says the messages were confusing and implied Nationwide had offered a mortgage 
and it should be held to this. But I think Mr and Mrs S were aware that the texts were sent 
during the application process. They could have spoken to their broker if they were unsure. 
Mr and Mrs S received a message from Nationwide saying it had booked a valuation but 
they didnt need to be present unless it had arranged this with them. At about the same time 
they received a message from the surveyor saying someone did need to be in, and they 
should ignore any contradictory messages from the lender. 
I dont think these messages were sufficiently confusing or upsetting to make it fair and reasonable to require Nationwide to pay compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman