DRN-3542733
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr P complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly declined their 
application to port their mortgage product to a new property. They said they were not 
borrowing any more money and only wanted to borrow the same amount. Mrs K and Mr P 
said they have now lost out on fees that they paid during the application process.
What happened
Mrs K and Mr P took out a capital repayment mortgage with Santander in October 2019. The 
mortgage was for £188,393 over a 25-year term and it was on a fixed rate of 1.79% until 
January 2027.
In March 2021, Mrs K and Mr P made an application to port their mortgage (transfer their 
current mortgage product to a new property). They wanted to do this under Santanders loyal 
mover policy as they had no increase in their borrowing and no other changes being made to 
the mortgage. Mrs K and Mr P said they received a decision in principle (DIP) at the time.
Santander told Mrs K and Mr P that they couldnt offer the level of borrowing that was 
required because Mrs K and Mr P had taken a six month payment deferral within the 12 
months preceding their application  so it was outside of their lending criteria. Mrs K and Mr 
P had the payment deferral approved from March to September 2020.
Santander said they were able to offer a maximum amount of £66,680 however this wasnt 
enough for Mrs K and Mr P as they required the full amount of their current mortgage which 
at the time was £183,500.
Mrs K and Mr P said that when they applied for the payment deferral, they were told there 
wouldnt be any impact on their credit files and they werent told that they would lose the 
benefits of the loyal movers scheme.
Mrs K and Mr P said they waited for five weeks while the application was being reviewed by 
Santanders underwriters, only to be told they could borrow the lesser amount. They said 
they have lost out on fees that they have paid such as solicitor, broker and valuation fees.
Santander said they followed the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines but they 
didnt let Mrs K and Mr P know it may affect future applications because they wouldnt have 
known what the lending criteria would be in the future as it is subject to change. 
Santander said they dont recommend that customers pay fees prior to receiving a mortgage 
offer other than the valuation fee. So they didnt think that any fees should be refunded. 
Mrs K and Mr P remained unhappy, so they brought the complaint to our service where it 
was looked at by one of our investigators who thought that Santander had acted unfairly. He 
said that the mortgage rules in place allow Santander to carry out an affordability calculation, 
but it would be unfair for them to decline the mortgage on that basis  if they found that the 
mortgage was unaffordable  so he upheld the complaint.
Santander disagreed. They made the following comments:
In order to gauge best interests, they have to consider a customers financial position 
in order to assess their ability to sustain the mortgage payments, where there is a 
material change in circumstances. They said the Mortgage Conduct of Business 
(MCOB) rules do not preclude them from doing so
Mrs K and Mr P had a combination of furlough, they took six months payment 
deferral and they followed their policy. They believe it was appropriate for them to 
decline the application in March 2021
As Mrs K and Mr P are no longer on furlough for more than one year, they can 
approach Santander to borrow the same amount as long as there are no other 
changes, and do not foresee there being an issue with their application
They said Mrs K and Mr P first contacted them on 18 March 2021 to discuss their 
application and didnt have all the required information to commence the application 
until 22 April 2021. They said it appears Mrs K and Mr P approached the solicitor 
prior to them assessing the application  so didnt agree to refund these costs
They also didnt agree to refund the two broker fees as Mrs K and Mr P could have 
contacted them directly in order to make a mortgage application. They said any 
advice would still be valid in the future. They said after making enquiries, they can 
see Mrs K and Mr Ps house was never sold so may have decided not to sell, even if 
the porting application had been successful
They feel a payment of £200 for distress and inconvenience would be more 
appropriate rather than the £350 recommended by the investigator
As Santander disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so 
it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are rules in place that cover this type of situation that I have to consider. These 
rules followed on from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR). The MMR led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way 
residential mortgages are regulated. MMR rules have brought about requirements for 
stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage 
lenders to act more responsibly. The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who 
wanted to make changes to their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed 
the tests under the old rules, but not under the new rules. So the FCA introduced certain 
rules to address this.
Mortgage Conduct of Business rules (MCOB) 11.6.3 says that a lender doesnt have to 
carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower wants to vary or replace an existing 
mortgage and there is no additional borrowing, (other than for product fees) and no 
changes to the terms of the mortgage that affect affordability. Ive looked at the application 
that Mrs K and Mr P made, to see if Santander have acted fairly. 
Mrs K and Mr P wanted to borrow the same amount as their current mortgage. They were 
not intending on borrowing any additional funds or making any changes that was a 
material change to the terms of that mortgage. 
Santander wouldnt offer them the same amount as their current mortgage, as they said 
they didnt meet the affordability assessment. Santander have raised concerns about a 
change in Mrs K and Mr Ps circumstances and also because they took a payment deferal 
within the last 12 months. 
I have seen Santanders lending criteria in relation to the loyal mover policy which states 
that the policy applies to existing borrowers wising to sell their property and purchase a 
new one. It notes that borrowers must be applying for the same amount, in the same 
names, with no changes to their circumstances in the last 12 months or adverse changes that suggest affordability cannot be maintained.   So based on this, I can see the reason 
why Santander declined the porting application.  
However, the FCA rules for mortgage lending allow lenders to set aside affordability 
checks for existing borrowers who arent borrowing more money or making any other 
material changes to the mortgage contract  as this was the case here. They do not say a 
lender must set them aside, but they can use their discretion to do so. If a lender does 
carry out an affordability assessment, it would then be unfair to use that assessment as a 
reason to decline the application. 
Mrs K and Mr P did take a payment deferal for six months from March to September 2020 
 during the pandemic. And Mrs K wasnt working as she was at home looking after their 
young children. But after the payment holiday ended, they maintained their mortgage 
payments. 
Mrs K and Mr P had a buyer for their property which I can see at the time had a sale price 
agreed of £455,000 and the property they wanted to buy was valued at £535,000. This 
meant that the loan to value (LTV) would have actually decreased so there was no risk to 
Santander. Even if the LTV had increased slightly, the risk to Santander would have been 
minimal  but this wasnt the case. 
In addition to this, Mrs K and Mr P secured a fixed rate in 2019 which doesnt expire until 
2027. This meant that had Mrs K and Mr P not wanted to move, they would have 
continued with this mortgage regardless. Santander would have allowed Mrs K and Mr P 
to continue with the mortgage they already had, had Mrs K and Mr P decided not to port. 
So Santander already had an obligation to continue with this mortgage. 
I think that Santander should have allowed Mrs K and Mr P to port their existing mortgage 
to a new property they wanted to purchase. And becuase of this, Mrs K and Mr P have 
had to pay fees that they would like reinbursed.I have considered what Santander have 
said about the fees that Mrs K and Mr P have paid but I do think that some of these 
should be refunded. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate that Mrs K and Mr P may have approached their solicitor prior to receiving a 
mortgage offer, but had Santander of approved the mortgage application, as they should 
have done, these costs would have been relevant. So I think the solicitor fee for £205 should 
be refunded. Mrs K and Mr P have paid two lots of broker fees of £250 each. Our 
investigator thought that Santander should refund both costs. However, I think that only one 
fee should be refunded. Mrs K and Mr P have explained that they used two different brokers 
as they were desperate to purchase the property  which they have now ended up losing. 
While I accept they were in a stressful position and wanted to go ahead with the property 
they found, it was ultimately up to them to use two brokers. So I think Santander should only 
refund one of these fees. I have notified Santander and Mrs K and Mr P separately, to let 
them know this is my intention. Miss K and Mr P responded and said they feel its unfair to 
only refund one broker fee. They said they would never have appointed another broker had 
Santander of allowed them to proceed with the loyal movers scheme. They said while they 
can accept the one payment for the broker fee, they dont agree that £350 is acceptable for 
what they have lost physically and emotionally. They said their main goal was to maintain 
the loyal movers scheme and port their mortgage. Miss K and Mr P also challenged the fact 
that Santander are unable to locate the telephone call where they were told the payment 
deferral would not affect them in anyway. 
Miss K and Mr P also confirmed that their situation has now changed as Miss K has now 
gone back to work and Mr Ps salary has increased so feels this may change Santanders 
outlook. Santander originally said they would only award £200 for the trouble and upset that was 
caused to Mrs K and Mr P, but have responded to say that they are willing to award an 
amount of £350. I understand that Mrs K and Mr P dont agree that £350 compensation is 
enough for the distress that they went through. Our awards are not intended on punishing 
businesses, but we make awards based on what we think is fair and reasonable based on 
the circumstances of each individual case. I do understand that it was a stressful time for 
Mrs K and Mr P, but I believe that £350 is reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
For completeness, I note that Mrs K and Mr P said they lost out on the opportunity to take 
advantage of the stamp duty holiday. While I agree that Santander should have approved 
their porting application, it would be very difficult to say that the mortgage would have 
completed on time. There are a number of outside factors that could have occurred, the 
property could have fallen through or their buyers could have pulled out for example, so I 
dont think that it would be fair to hold Santander responsible for this. 
I also note that Mrs K and Mr P would like Santander to provide us with the telephone call 
whereby they state that a payment deferral would not impact them. But as I have agreed that 
Santander should have approved the porting application, this isnt necessary. 
Santander have explained to us that Mrs K and Mr P can now approach them to consider a 
new porting application and when Mrs K and Mr P are ready to go ahead, they should 
contact Santander who should consider this in line with MCOB 11.6.3.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to:
Refund the broker fee of £250 plus 8% interest on this amount
Refund the solicitor fee of £205 plus 8% interest on this amount
Pay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Reconsider Mrs K and Mr Ps porting application when they are ready to proceed  
taking account of MCOB 11.6.3
If Santander UK Plc deducts tax from any interest it pays to Mrs K and Mr P as above, they 
should provide Mrs K and Mr P with a tax certificate, so they can reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman