DRN-3685275
The complaint
Mr H is complaining that tom hartley cars limited (Tom Hartley) gave him wrong information 
when brokering finance for him to acquire a car. 
What happened
Mr H was looking to acquire a car in late 2021 from Tom Hartley. He was looking to acquire 
it through a finance agreement for his business, not in his personal name. 
The finance company in question asked for his personal details as a guarantor, and Mr H 
says that Tom Hartley told him that this was standard across the industry and would always 
happen. 
Mr H discovered shortly afterwards that this wasnt true and went on to secure finance in his 
business name, without needing a personal guarantee. He complained in early 2022 to Tom 
Hartley about the wrong information he was given, but they dont appear to have responded 
to his complaint at all, so he brought the complaint to our service. 
An investigator here was also not able to get any response from the business about the 
complaint, so gave their view that the emails provided by Mr H showed some wrong 
information had been given to him during the negotiations. However, they explained to Mr H 
that whilst he wanted us to take punitive action against Tom Hartley for not complying with 
FCA regulations, this wasnt within our remit. The investigator recognised the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr H and said the business should pay Mr H £100 to recognise 
this.
Mr H accepted this outcome, but Tom Hartley didnt respond to it, so the case has been 
passed to me to issue a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing Ive done is to consider whether this is a complaint we have the jurisdiction to 
consider. No regulated activity has taken place, as Mr H has withdrawn from the process of 
the finance agreement before taking it out. I am satisfied however that Mr H is a potential 
customer, and this was a prospective credit agreement. This means that I can consider the 
actions carried out by the Broker as part of the negotiations, and whether they were fair and 
correct. 
Mr H has told us that he was surprised when he discovered the finance company wanted 
him to be the personal guarantor for the finance agreement. When he queried this with Tom 
Hartley, they told him in an email hes sent us that:
 you also were complaining about the information the finance company are requesting such 
as a personal guarantee, which is standard in the industry. 
Mr H complained about this statement, alongside concerns he raised about the complaint 
handling procedures of Tom Hartley. As the investigator here explained to Mr H, complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity, so we cant make any findings about that. 
However, credit broking is a regulated activity, so I have looked at the service and 
information provided to Mr H to consider whether anything has gone wrong here. Mr H has 
told us that he felt the statement above meant that he would have to provide a personal 
guarantee wherever he got the finance from, so he was concerned when he discovered this 
wasnt the case.  
Tom Hartley have not responded to our requests for information about the conversations or 
the credit broking process they undertook. As such, I have to base my decision on the 
evidence available. 
Mr H took the above statement in an email sent to him to mean that all applications like his 
would always require a personal guarantee, so was upset and angry when he discovered 
this was not the case. I think its reasonable that he would come to that conclusion from the 
email, so I agree, he was given incorrect information. 
Without communication from Tom Hartley, its difficult to know whether this was a simple 
misunderstanding, where they just havent been very clear in their email. They could have 
clarified this with Mr H, but it seems that the relationship broke down when Mr H wanted to 
complain about their service, and theyve not responded to him or us any further about this 
complaint. 
As already mentioned, I wont be commenting on the complaint handling service provided by 
Tom Hartley or making any findings in relation to that. Similarly, Mr H is aware that its not 
the role of this service to police or punish firms more generally, we can only look at specific 
complaints and look to put right anything that has gone wrong. 
There was no financial detriment here to Mr H. He did not proceed with the finance 
agreement and so hasnt lost out financially in any way. He was inconvenienced however by 
being given the wrong information and upset and angry about it when he felt hed been lied 
to. 
As such, I am persuaded that a payment to Mr H to recognise this distress and 
inconvenience would be the fair way for Tom Hartley to resolve this complaint. £100 is a fair 
figure to recognise the distress caused in this case. 
Putting things right
For the reasons stated, tom hartley cars limited should pay Mr H £100 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused because of the wrong information they provided to him.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint, and tom hartley cars limited must 
follow my directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman