DRN-2310784
The complaint
Mrs and Mr A complain that BUPA Insurance Limited wont pay for physiotherapy treatment 
to continue under their group private medical insurance policy.
While the complaint has been made jointly, the claim was made by Mrs A. So Ive referred 
simply to Mrs A throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs A has private medical insurance through a group scheme.
In June 2019, Mrs A made a claim on her policy for specialist physiotherapy. Shed suffered 
with spine and rib pain for some time. Shed been treated since November 2018 by an 
osteopath and had also had a steroid injection through a doctor at a pain clinic. As Mrs As 
condition wasnt improving, she was referred to a specialist physiotherapist. BUPA 
authorised Mrs As treatment.
Subsequently, in November 2019, Mrs As physiotherapist requested an extension of funding 
for Mrs As treatment. BUPA initially turned down the claim because it considered that based 
on the physiotherapists report; Mrs As condition had improved. It said that the treatment 
would be for maintenance purposes  which isnt covered by the policy terms. Mrs A was 
unhappy with BUPAs decision and she complained. She explained that the physiotherapists 
report didnt clearly set out what treatment shed received or accurately describe her 
condition.
Mrs As physiotherapist wrote to BUPA in February 2020, providing a further report which 
clarified the situation with Mrs As treatment and what treatment shed undergone. He said 
that when treatment had ended in November 2019, Mrs A hadnt achieved a stable state 
where shed be able to self-manage her treatment at home. He told BUPA that Mrs As 
condition had significantly worsened after BUPA had turned down her claim and he said that 
she needed further care. 
However, BUPA maintained its decision not to cover any further physiotherapy sessions 
relating to Mrs As existing spinal condition, although it did pay for her to have physiotherapy 
on her neck separately. It said that the condition was no longer acute and therefore, it was 
no longer covered by the policy. It also said that it would only generally authorise short 
courses of physiotherapy and then policyholders would be expected to self-manage their 
treatment at home. 
Mrs A remained unhappy with BUPAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. 
She considered that BUPA should continue to cover her treatment. And she explained that 
the situation had impacted on her physical and mental health, as well as causing her upset.
Our investigator didnt think that BUPA had treated Mrs A unfairly. He considered that given 
the duration of Mrs As symptoms and the fact that shed been undergoing treatment since 
November 2018, it was fair for BUPA to no longer class her condition as acute. So he didnt 
think it was unreasonable for BUPA to refuse to pay for any further treatment.
Mrs A disagreed. Ive summarised her response. She didnt think her consultations with the 
osteopath were relevant. Her condition hadnt responded to this treatment and so in March 
2019, shed been referred to a pain specialist. This treatment hadnt formed part of the plan 
the pain consultant devised after he diagnosed Mrs A. She explained that by November 
2019, shed had 10 sessions with the physiotherapist. She queried the use of word quickly 
when dealing with acute conditions. She said shed been treated for a complex condition 
which had been left undiagnosed for some time and that treatment had only begun for that 
specific condition in March 2019. She felt that by November 2019, shed been steadily 
improving  and that this represented quick progress given the time since the onset of the 
condition. The progress of her recovery has been undermined as a result of BUPAs decision 
and her condition has worsened.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A, I think BUPA has treated her fairly. Ill 
explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mrs A that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint 
and the detailed submissions shes made, Ive read and considered everything shes said 
and sent us. In making my decision though, I wont deal with each and every point. Instead, 
Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues. Im also sorry to hear that Mrs As 
condition has caused her long-term pain and that the situation has caused her upset and 
financial impact on top.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mrs As policy and the available evidence to decide whether BUPAs handled her 
claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Mrs As policy. This sets out the cover that BUPA provides. 
It provides cover for eligible treatment. BUPA has defined what it means by eligible 
treatment. It says: treatment of: an acute condition or a mental health condition.
Acute condition is defined as: a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to 
treatment which aims to return you to the state of health you were in immediately before 
suffering the disease, illness or injury, or which leads to your full recovery.
Theres no disagreement that Mrs As condition has been developing for some time, even 
though shes told us that there wasnt a formal diagnosis until her referral to the pain clinic. 
While I appreciate that Mrs A feels that the treatment she began with the osteopath in 
November 2018 isnt relevant, I dont agree. Thats because this treatment was funded by 
BUPA to treat what appear to be the same symptoms she was experiencing when she was 
ultimately diagnosed by the pain clinic. So while the osteopathic treatment she received 
wasnt successful in resolving Mrs As condition, I think the evidence suggests the treatment 
BUPA funded at this point related to this condition.
I can see from the medical evidence that following Mrs As diagnosis, BUPA met the cost of 
her having a spinal steroid injection, which also failed to resolve her symptoms. And it was at 
this point that Mrs A was referred to the physiotherapist. It appears that Mrs A had a number of sessions with him before additional funding was requested in November 2019. Based on 
the medical evidence the physiotherapist provided at this point; I dont think it was unfair for 
BUPA to conclude that Mrs As condition was improving and that she was moving towards a 
position where shed be able to self-manage her symptoms at home. So it didnt agree to 
fund all of the sessions the physiotherapist had requested.
Its clear how strongly Mrs A felt about BUPAs decision and that she didnt think the report 
reflected the actual position. I think BUPA was entitled to rely on the information itd been 
provided by the treating professional in November 2019 though. The physiotherapist did 
provide a further letter in February 2020, which explained Mrs As actual medical position in 
far greater depth and explained that Mrs A wasnt yet in a stable state where her symptoms 
could be self-managed. He told BUPA that Mrs As condition had significantly worsened; that 
she wasnt able to do the majority of the exercises that had been planned; that she was 
continuing with the same treatment plan and that he hoped to slowly build on her confidence 
and ability to exercise, while focusing on isolating the primary cause of the pain and flare-
ups.
BUPA reviewed the physiotherapists further report. But it concluded that Mrs As condition 
was no longer acute and therefore, didnt constitute eligible treatment. It told Mrs A that it 
only generally authorised short courses of physiotherapy treatment. While it agreed to cover 
six sessions for Mrs As neck; it didnt agree that her spinal and rib sessions were covered.
Ive considered what Mrs As said about the meaning of the word quickly in the definition of 
acute. I do appreciate that her condition is complex and so she feels that in the context of 
the duration of her pain, her symptoms were improving quickly. BUPA hasnt included a 
definition of what it means by quickly in its policy. So Ive thought about the ordinary and 
natural meaning of it. A dictionary defines quickly as: at fast speed or after only a very short 
time.
In this case, while Mrs A had been undergoing sessions with the physiotherapist for around 
five months when he asked for the funding to be extended; shed been receiving treatment 
for the underlying condition for over a year. Two of the treatments hadnt worked. I accept 
the medical evidence suggests that the physiotherapy was improving Mrs As condition. But 
in my view, the report of February 2020 also suggests that Mrs A wasnt able to self-manage 
her symptoms; shed require the same treatment plan; her condition significantly worsened 
without the treatment and given the physiotherapist suggested hed slowly build her ability, 
it seems that Mrs As treatment plan was longer term in nature. And I also think it was fair for 
BUPA to conclude that Mrs A would need more than the short course of physiotherapy it 
would generally authorise under the terms of the policy.
On this basis, while I sympathise with Mrs As position, I dont find BUPA has acted unfairly 
by concluding that she no longer has an acute condition which is covered by the terms of her 
policy. I do appreciate that she benefited from the treatment but given I dont think its now 
covered by the policy, I cant fairly direct BUPA to continue to cover her sessions. So this 
means I think it was fair and reasonable for BUPA to turn down her claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman