DRN-1596144
The complaint
Miss Zs complains that TSB Bank plc closed her account unfairly and caused confusion 
when it told her several cheques had been cancelled.
What happened
In September 2019 TSB gave Miss Z 60 days notice of its intention to close her account. 
Miss Z switched her account to another provider before the 60 days notice had expired. As 
a result of the account switch, TSB wrote to Miss Z saying it was cancelling several cheques 
at her request. Miss Z says this letter caused her distress as she hadnt asked for any 
cheques to be cancelled and thought she had lost some money.     
Miss Z complained to TSB seeking compensation for the distress the letter had caused. TSB 
said the letter was a standard letter sent to account holders switching bank accounts but still 
held a cheque book. While it accepted that Miss Z may have found the wording in the letter 
confusing, it didnt accept it had done anything wrong. It said it was part of its procedures to 
cancel any unused cheques when an account is switched to a new provider. So, it didnt 
offer Miss Z any compensation.   
Unhappy with TSBs response. Miss Z referred her complaint to us. In her complaint, she 
said she was unhappy about the account closure and the letter about the cancellation of the 
cheques. Although Miss Z hadnt previously raised a complaint to TSB about its decision to 
close her account, TSB agreed to us looking at that part of the complaint too. So, one of our 
investigators looked into both matters under one complaint reference number. But she 
concluded that TSB had acted in accordance with the account terms and conditions of   Miss 
Zs account about the account closure. And, while she acknowledged the letter about the 
cancellation of the cheques could have been worded better, she didnt think TSB had done 
anything significantly wrong. So, she didnt uphold Miss Zs complaint.  
Miss Z she didnt accept this outcome as she feels compensation is due. So, the complaint 
has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I 
know Miss Z will be disappointed with my decision, so Ill explain why.
I think it would be helpful to explain that we are an impartial service. And I can only uphold 
Miss Zs complaint if I found that TSB had done something wrong that had caused Miss Z a 
financial loss or material distress and inconvenience.
I understand the crux of Miss Z complaint relates to TSBs decision to close her account. 
And the distress it caused her when it sent a letter saying cheques had been cancelled. So, I 
will deal with the two issues in turn.Its not in dispute that TSB told Miss Z that it intended to close her account during a 
telephone call. And that this was followed up in writing. So, I need to decide if  in making 
this decision, TSB did anything wrong.
An account holder can choose to end their relationship with a business at any time. 
Likewise, a business can decide to end its relationship with an account holder. These 
provisions are generally set out in the terms and conditions of the account. 
In this case, the terms and conditions of Miss Zs account say that TSB can close an account 
immediately in certain circumstances. Or, if those circumstances dont apply, by giving two 
months notice. As TSB provided the required notice in line with the terms of  Miss Zs 
account, I cant say that it did anything wrong when deciding to close her account. 
I note it was Miss Zs decision to switch her account to a new provider before the 60 days 
notice had expired. When switching an account there are procedures a business is required 
to follow. And I think its reasonable that one of these procedures is to cancel any cheques 
that had been issued to the account holder. This is because cheques cant be honoured after 
the account is switched. 
Here, the letter sent to Miss Z said: thank you for telling us that you want to cancel the 
following cheque and then lists a range of cheque numbers. As Miss Z hadnt specifically 
asked TSB to cancel any cheques, I can understand why the wording of the letter was 
confusing to her. So, Ive thought about whether Miss Z should receive some compensation 
for the distress caused.
But Miss Z had made arrangements to switch her account. And I think its most likely she 
wouldve known that any cheques she had been issued with by TSB would be no longer 
valid when her account was switched to another provider. And I can see TSB clarified this to 
Miss Z when she raised her concerns with it. 
So, while I agree with our investigator that the letter could have been worded better, I dont 
think TSB did anything wrong when it confirmed cheques issued to Miss Z were being 
cancelled. As this is so, it follows that I wont be asking TSB to pay Miss Z compensation. I 
dont think TSB did anything significantly wrong that caused Miss Z any financial loss or 
material distress and inconvenience to the extent that compensation is due. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman