DRN-1143561
complaint
Mr B says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four payday loans MYJAR provided to Mr B between March 
and June 2017. Mr Bs borrowing history is as follows:
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 09/03/2017 27/04/2017 6 £1,650 £478.53
2 14/05/2017 22/05/2017 3 £300 £162.77
3 24/05/2017 07/06/2017 3 £250 £127.14
4 09/06/2017 09/05/2018 12 £1,850 £276.57
 
An adjudicator reviewed the case and didnt think MYJAR needed to do more when it gave 
Mr B loans 1-3. But he thought that loan 4 shouldnt have been given to Mr B as he was 
struggling to repay existing loans.
MYJAR disagreed with the view and said the checks it carried out for loan 4 were 
proportionate. It also says that Mr B didnt have any issues repaying loan 4 so this shows it 
was appropriate for Mr B. Another adjudicator recently reviewed the case and thought loan 4 
shouldnt have been given, but for slightly different reasons. She explained MYJAR 
shouldve seen that Mr B already had significant debts and issues managing his finances 
when it carried out its checks.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure  Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain 
factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should and reasonably have done more able for 
the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. I think that it is important for me to 
start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay 
his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow 
this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments 
sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think MYJAR needed to do any more when it lent Mr B loans 1 to 3. Mr 
B didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion about these loans so I wont be making 
further findings on them, although I will consider them when looking at Mr Bs overall 
financial situation. 
I dont think MYJAR shouldve given Mr B loan 4. Ill explain why.
MYJAR says it carried out adequate checks on Mr B when he applied for loan 4. I think 
if MYJAR had properly considered Mr Bs financial situation I think it would have seen that 
loan 4 shouldnt have been given. I say this because the amount Mr B was borrowing for 
loan 4 was significantly higher than his previous loans with MYJAR. Mr B had also taken out 
loans 3 and 4 within days of repaying his existing borrowing. And overall, all of his loans with 
MYJAR were taken out in quick succession within a three month period. I think these factors 
were the first obvious indicators that Mr B may have been having issues managing his 
money by the time he applied for loan 4.
When Mr B applied for loan 4 I think MYJAR ought to have been looking to build up a clearer 
picture of Mr Bs financial situation before lending to him again. Especially as loan 4 was for such a significant amount and due to be repaid over 12 months. The credit checks MYJAR 
carried out revealed Mr B already had a significant amount of debt. The check showed Mr B 
had opened 9 accounts in the previous three months (some of which were other short-term 
loans) and his outstanding commitment on multiple accounts had increased. This information 
shouldve alerted MYJAR to the fact that Mr B was having issues managing his finances and 
wasnt in a position to take on further borrowing. 
I can also see the credit check highlighted Mr Bs existing commitments were actually more 
than what he had declared when applying for his loans. This meant that Mr B was already 
using a significant amount of his income to repay his credit commitments. It seems that Mr B 
was already overindebted and this wouldve been clear to MYJAR had it reacted effectively 
to the information it had gathered about Mr B. 
MYJAR says that Mr B actually repaid loan 4 without any problems and this supports its 
argument that it carried out adequate checks and the loan was appropriate for Mr B. 
However, looking at the information available at the time of the application for loan 4 there 
wasnt any indication Mr B wouldve been able to repay the loan without any issues. And the 
fact it has been repaid, doesnt automatically mean that this has been done in a sustainable 
way that hasnt had an impact on Mr Bs overall financial situation. 
Based on the above, I think MYJAR shouldve realised that loan 4 wasnt appropriate for  Mr 
B.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
MYJAR shouldnt have given Mr B loan 4.
A)  MYJAR should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, 
fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party where applicable, 
but not including anything MYJAR has already refunded.
B) MYJAR should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) MYJAR should pay Mr B the total of A plus B.
D) MYJAR should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Bs credit file in 
relation to loan 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. MYJAR should 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. MYJAR Limited should put 
things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman I am required to ask Mr B to accept or reject 
my decision before 10 July 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman