DRN-2644150
The complaint
Mr W complains about the default that Sainsbury's Bank plc has recorded on his credit file 
and the way that it has dealt with his account.
What happened
Mr W has a credit card account with Sainsburys Bank. It went into arrears in March 2019 
when the minimum monthly payment required for that month wasnt made. Sainsburys Bank 
agreed to put a hold on the account for one month but Mr W said in May 2019 that his 
circumstances hadnt changed. He was sent notices of sums in arrears in April and June 
2019 and then a notice of default in July 2019. 
He contacted Sainsburys Bank five days later because he wanted to set up an arrangement 
to prevent a default being applied to his account but the income and expenditure information 
that he provided showed that he couldnt clear the arrears so he said that he would contact it 
again. He didnt contact Sainsburys Bank until after the due date for the payment that was 
set out in the notice had expired.
Sainsburys Bank recorded a default on Mr Ws credit file. He contacted it the day after the 
default notice had expired to set up a payment arrangement but his account had already 
defaulted. He agreed a repayment arrangement - but the payments werent made. He 
complained to Sainsburys Bank and it said that he should have been told that those 
payments couldnt be made by direct debit, as he wanted, so it enclosed a cheque for £30. It 
said there had been no error in applying the default, it didnt agree that it had made any error 
and that the action taken on his account was correct. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He couldnt say that Sainsburys Bank was 
incorrect in recording a default and he was satisfied that it had tried to respond positively and 
sympathetically when Mr W mentioned his financial difficulties. He didnt think that it had 
acted unfairly so he said that he wouldnt be recommending that it pays compensation in 
these circumstances.
Mr W responded to our investigators recommendations in detail and said, in summary, that 
he was ill on the day the default notice expired, he offered to pay £105 in July 2019 but 
Sainsburys Bank didnt accept his offer and his account has been sent to a debt collection 
agency but hes still being contacted by Sainsburys Bank. He also refers to his experience 
with another bank that has accepted his payment offer. Our investigator said that he still 
considered that Mr Ws complaint shouldnt be upheld so Mr W has asked for his complaint 
to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
its clear that Mr Ws account was in arrears in March 2019 and that Sainsburys 
Bank agreed to put a one month hold on the account;
the arrears continued and he was sent notices of sums in arrears in April and June 
2019 and then a notice of default in July 2019  that notice required him to pay 
£381.22 within four weeks or his account would be defaulted;
Mr W contacted Sainsburys Bank five days later because he wanted to set up an 
arrangement to prevent a default being applied to his account - and he says that he 
offered to make a payment of £105 - but that wasnt acceptable to Sainsburys Bank;
it was required to respond to Mr Ws financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically  but that doesnt mean that it was required to accept Mr Ws 
payment offer  whether or not an offer is acceptable is a decision for Sainsburys 
Bank to make and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that it 
acted unfairly or unreasonably when it didnt accept Mr Ws offer;
Sainsburys Banks says that, as it hadnt accepted Mr Ws payment offer, he said that 
he would consult with family members for assistance and get back in touch with it  
but he didnt contact it again until the day after the default notice had expired  and 
by then his account had been defaulted;
Mr W says that he was ill on the day that the default notice expired so couldnt 
contact Sainsburys Bank but contacted it the next day  but by then the default 
notice had expired and the default had been recorded;
Mr W has referred to his experience with another bank that has accepted his 
payment offer  but that doesnt mean that Sainsburys Bank was required to accept 
his payment offer or that it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it didnt do so;
Sainsburys Bank says that Mr Ws account is with its recoveries team and hasnt 
been sent to a debt collection agency;
Sainsburys Bank sent Mr W a cheque for £30 because of some incorrect information 
that it gave him but, other than that, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence 
to show that it acted incorrectly when it defaulted Mr Ws account or in its dealings 
with him about his account (and I consider that the £30 cheque was fair and 
reasonable compensation for the incorrect information that he was given); 
I sympathise with Mr W for the financial difficulties and the other issues that hes 
experienced, but I consider that Sainsburys Bank has responded to his financial 
difficulties positively and sympathetically; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Sainsburys Bank to remove the default from Mr Ws account, to pay him any more 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman