DRN-2146774
The complaint
Mr S says Countrywide Principal Services Limited (CPS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out at a meeting in 2008 to protect Mr Ss
mortgage repayments. The policy gave him unemployment cover. He paid a monthly amount 
for it.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. CPS disagreed so the complaint was passed to
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
I have decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
CPS had to make clear to Mr S that the PPI was optional, and he had to agree to take it out. 
Mr S says he has no full recollection of the details of the sale. CPS hasnt been able to 
provide any of Mr Ss paperwork from the time of the sale. But this isnt surprising or 
unreasonable as the sale was so long ago. 
Our adjudicator said there wasnt enough evidence CPS had met this obligation. CPS 
argues that Mr Ss policy is still live and he received annual renewal statements so he is fully 
aware of the policy. But this does not evidence that Mr S was told the PPI was optional, or 
that he gave his consent to take it out.
CPS also says during the sale its consultant would have asked about Mr Ss circumstances 
and then made a recommendation, but Mr S didnt have to take this up. But as Ive said it 
hasnt been able to show how it made clear to Mr S that taking out cover was his choice. 
Mr S told us he had savings worth six months salary and he was employed in a senior 
position at a company hed worked at for 19 years. So its most likely he was entitled to a 
very good redundancy package. Given his circumstances I dont think its likely he would 
have taken out the 12-months of unemployment cover this PPI policy gave him if he had 
known it was optional.
CPS says Mr S would have received a booklet at the time of the sale and has provided a 
copy of this. But this doesnt point out that the cover is optional  it explains the cover and 
how it works.   
In summary, I dont think CPS has adequately shown that it made clear the PPI was 
optional, and that Mr S agreed to take it out. 
It follows I think Mr S has lost out because of the problems with this sale.
Putting things right
CPS should put Mr S in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The
policy should be cancelled and CPS should:
Pay Mr S the amount paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If a successful claim was made under the PPI policy, CPS can take off the value
of the claim from the amount it owes. If applicable, it can also deduct any commission
already refunded.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires CPS to take off tax from this interest. CPS must give
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint. Countrywide Principal Services Limited must now put 
things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman