DRN-2568865
The complaint
Mrs R has complained Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, wont refund 
money for cash machine withdrawals she didnt make with her credit card.
What happened
Mrs R has held a credit card with Tesco Bank since 2007. In August 2019 she attempted to 
withdraw cash from a cash machine but no money came out. Around the same time her 
husband used his debit card with another bank (who Ill call H) and also didnt get any cash 
out of the same cash machine.
Mrs R didnt immediately think anything of it but later became convinced her card had been 
cloned and used fraudulently. This was after Tesco Bank notified her shed exceeded her 
credit limit. She disputed four cash withdrawals using her credit card with Tesco Bank, 
including the initial one that occurred in August. Tesco Bank didnt think there was any 
evidence Mrs Rs card had been cloned.
Mrs R brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator also didnt think Mrs Rs card had been cloned, and as this had remained in 
her possession throughout, she felt it was most likely that Mrs R had authorised the 
transactions involved.
Mrs R continued to dispute this outcome. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Ive reached the decision I have.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing 
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them to be 
made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Tesco Bank and 
Mrs R. This includes what transactions Mr (or Mrs) R has disputed with H. Ive also noted the 
detail in our investigators view of 6 November 2020 but feel no need to rerun some of the 
arguments made there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which drive the decision Im 
making.
Mrs R has disputed four cash machine transactions. These were conducted on four separate 
dates in August, September (on 21 and 25) and October 2019. £200 was withdrawn on two 
occasions and £250 on the other two. Mrs R has provided evidence to show that she was 
elsewhere on 21 September around the time cash was being withdrawn.
I appreciate Mrs R has provided evidence to us that copies can be made of genuine cards at 
cash machines. Shes completely sure this happened at a cash machine attached to a local 
shop.
Firstly I dont dispute card data can be copied but as yet theres no cases  outside of a 
laboratory  which show wholescale copies of chips on payment cards being made. Nor the 
data they contain being copied and used fraudulently. None of the evidence Mrs R provided 
to us states this. The fraud shes evidenced is data being copied from the magnetic stripe of 
the card which allow cards to be used  generally overseas and in locations where chip data 
isnt being read. All of the disputed withdrawals on Mrs Rs card took place in locations near 
to Mrs Rs home in machines which were reading chip data.
The evidence Tesco Bank provided to us shows the genuine card and PIN was used. I can 
confirm this is the case as the chip on Mrs Rs card was read.
Mrs R believes the fraud started at her local shop but the first disputed withdrawal using her 
Tesco Bank credit card was at a completely different cash machine on 9 August. I think its 
most likely that this is the withdrawal Mrs R was making when she says she received no 
cash. I suspect she did receive the cash and may have just mixed this up with another 
instance. Theres no incident from reviewing data held by Tesco Bank of an attempt to 
withdraw funds being unsuccessful. Id have thought if Mrs R hadnt received the cash she 
was expecting, then shed have at least checked her credit card account to ensure shed not 
been debited in error. I cant see she did this or raised any immediate dispute with Tesco 
Bank.
Mrs R has had no fraud claims on her account previously. I think its worth saying I dont 
believe for one minute Mrs R doesnt think shes been a victim of fraud. However I think all 
the physical evidence  including the card remaining in Mrs R;s possession  points to her 
having made these withdrawals herself and been mistaken after the event about what may 
have happened.
Overall I think its most likely Mrs R authorised these withdrawals so I wont be asking Tesco 
Bank to refund her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint against 
Tesco Personal Finance plc, training as Tesco Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman