DRN-2931699
The complaint
This complaint is about a personal loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy Ms A has 
told us was taken out in 1999. Ms A says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBOS) mis-sold 
her the PPI. 
What happened
Ms A complained that RBOS had mis-sold her PPI. RBOS originally said we couldnt 
consider Ms As complaint as it had been brought to us too late. But in May 2021 it said it 
would be making an offer for the PPI mis-sold to Ms A. 
However, shortly after, RBOS confirmed that when it came to make its calculations for the 
offer it became clear that Ms A didnt pay any premiums for PPI on her loan (or current 
accounts) so nothing was due to her. 
Ms A didnt agree with the outcome. Her recollection is that PPI was sold to her and she was 
told the premiums charged formed part of the monthly repayment she was making. She 
couldnt understand why RBOS was now saying the PPI wasnt drawn down. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above, RBOS confirmed it would be making an offer to Ms A. It was only when 
completing the calculations for the offer that it became apparent no premiums had been 
paid. The loan itself was drawn down but not the PPI. It also confirmed that no PPI 
premiums were paid on Ms As current account. It provided copies of statements for both the 
loan account and current account which showed no evidence of PPI premiums being paid.
In light of Ms As recollection that she was told the PPI monthly premiums would be part of 
the monthly repayment she would be making for the loan, we asked for more information 
and evidence about what happened. 
In its response RBOS explained that it didnt have any paperwork from the time of the sale, 
which I dont find surprising as this happened over 20 years ago, and businesses arent 
obliged to keep paperwork indefinitely. But it did explain what it thought likely happened.
It told us that for the type of loan Ms A was applying for, the PPI premiums werent included 
as part of the loan repayment. As such a separate bank direct debit would need to be 
completed. As the loan was drawn down in the usual way after it had been applied for, but 
not the PPI, I think its most likely that the direct debit mandate for the PPI wasnt completed 
so PPI wasnt applied to the loan account or any premiums paid. 
As no PPI premiums were paid, it follows that Ms A hasnt lost out financially because of PPI 
being mis-sold to her so she isnt due any redress for that mis-sale. 
I do appreciate it must be frustrating and upsetting for Ms A particularly as Ms A has told us 
she has been in financial difficulty. And her recollection is that she applied for the PPI and 
when she complained RBOS agreed that it would be making an offer. 
But the information and evidence that RBOS has given us shows that no premiums were 
debited to her bank accounts for any PPI premiums. So, I dont agree that any redress is 
payable to Ms A. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt need to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman