DRN-3657942
The complaint
Mr R complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) treated him unfairly 
when his financial circumstances changed.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr R acquired a new car via a four-year hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS. The payments were £353.91 per month and in the 48th month of the agreement Mr 
R could choose to pay the optional final payment if he wished to keep the car. The 
agreement also had an annual mileage limit of 8,000 and a total mileage limit of 32,000.
In October 2020, BMWFS agreed a six- month deferral of payments for Mr R due to the 
impact of the pandemic on Mr Rs financial situation. An additional six months was added to 
the term of the agreement though there was no change to the mileage limit that had been 
applied.
Unfortunately, in January 2022 Mr R experienced another change to his financial 
circumstances due to a health condition. Mr R contacted BMWFS and explained the 
situation. Voluntary termination was discussed but rejected by Mr R as he would need to pay 
around £10,000 to reach the 50% point of the credit agreement.
In February 2022, BMWFS sent Mr R an email setting out his options as to how he could 
end the agreement. It said Please be advised you have other options, which I have listed 
below for your reading. This includes: the options of selling the vehicle privately and settling 
the finance, you can then obtain a smaller or cheaper vehicle elsewhere, or alternatively 
obtaining finance or a personal loan through a third party provider for an extended period of 
time to reduce your monthly instalments and settling the finance with ourselves. Please note 
the below options for your consideration:
- Settle agreement in full to release title. The vehicle can be sold to a retailer or private 
individual, full settlement balance is required.
- Part exchange the vehicle, with the current agreement being settled in full.
 - Refinance through the retailer or third-party finance company. Voluntary Terminate (VT), 
you would be required to hand the vehicle back and you are liable for 50% of the finance 
plus possible charges for pro-rated Excess Mileage and damages deemed outside of Fair 
Wear & Tear. We can look to agree a payment plan for the outstanding balance.
Mr R later reported to BMWFS that he attended a dealership in the hope of exchanging the 
car for a cheaper vehicle and agreement but had then unfortunately been declined for a new 
finance agreement.
In February 2022, Mr R contacted BMWFS and explained he had now been signed off work 
and was on a waiting list for an operation. He said it could be up to 10 months before he 
would be able to return to work. Mr R explained that he wasnt in a position to be able to 
make any payments towards the car. BMWFS said that it would be irresponsible of it to allow 
Mr R to accumulate more debt by keeping the car when he wasnt able to say when he 
would be able to make payments. The voluntary termination was discussed but Mr R said he 
needed to have a car as he wouldnt be able to work without it and he didnt think he could 
afford to pay any payment plan.
Mr R says he spoke with an independent debt charity who advised him to voluntary 
terminate the agreement. Mr R contacted BMWFS and requested a settlement quotation to 
hand the car back and voluntary terminate the agreement. BMWFS sent him a settlement 
figure of £8,740.62 and a few days letter Mr R formally requested to voluntary terminate. 
The car was then collected and inspected. The inspection report recorded two dents to the 
right-hand side front and rear doors and scratches to the left-hand side front and rear wheels 
which were all considered to be beyond fair wear and tear. The damage invoice amounted to 
£376.72. The mileage limit for the car had also been exceed by 8,843 miles and the excess 
mileage fee amounted to £634.93. A total charge of £1,010.65 was added to Mr Rs 
outstanding balance.
Mr R says he was unhappy to discover that BMWFS had sold the car via an auction and that 
any proceeds from that sale were offset against the outstanding balance he owed. Mr R 
complained to BMWFS about its handling of his account and said it had not been 
sympathetic to his predicament which was beyond his control. He also said he thought the 
charges for the condition of the car had been unfair.
BMWFS didnt uphold his complaint. It said there had been various options open to Mr R, 
one of which was to voluntary terminate. And Mr R had requested and received a quote 
which highlighted the amount that he would be required to pay to reach 50% of the 
agreement. It said this settlement quote also set out that the car would be inspected for 
damage and excess mileage in line with the agreements terms and conditions and that 
potential extra costs could be incurred.
BMWFS said that as Mr R had requested to voluntary terminate the agreement it was 
satisfied he had decided this was the best way forward for him. And that the charges for the 
damage and mileage had been in accordance with the agreements terms and conditions.
BMWFS also said that any profit or loss to the business following the sale of the vehicle 
when its returned isnt offset against an agreement that has been terminated. The risk of 
whether the vehicle makes a profit or loss is a risk the business takes when offering a
Hire Purchase agreement to a consumer.
Mr R was unhappy at BMWFSs response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend Mr Rs complaint was upheld as he said he though BMWFS had acted 
fairly and reasonably.
Our investigator said he was satisfied that BMWFS had fully informed Mr R of his options
which included voluntary terminating or selling the car to settle the agreement. He also said 
that he noted Mr R had sought and been given independent advice and been helped to 
compile the termination letter. Our investigator said he thought Mr R had made the decision 
to voluntary terminate having fully considered his options and having taken the time to seek 
further advice from a third party.
As Mr R had chosen to voluntary terminate the agreement, our investigator said that 
BMWFS couldnt use the proceeds from auction to offset the balance on the account. He 
said he didnt believe it would be fair to expect BMWFS to do so.Having reviewed the damage charges that BMWFS had billed for, our investigator said these 
were in line with the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines 
which were an acceptable industry standard. He said looking at the evidence that had been 
provided, that he thought these had been correctly charged. 
Mr R disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that the options that had been 
outlined to him werent applicable to his situation and he had no choice but to seek to 
voluntary terminate the agreement. He said if BMWFS had allowed him to defer payment for 
six months he could have started to make payments as he had now had the operation and 
was looking to return to work in October. He said BMWFS had never offered him real help.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R says that he had no choice but to accept the worst option available to him in respect of 
the hire purchase agreement he had with BMWFS. He says he couldnt have sold the car as 
under the agreement he wasnt the owner. And he couldnt have sold it privately because a 
buyer would have wanted the warranty. However, I think Mr R has misunderstood what his 
options were.
Ive seen that a number of options were set out to by BMWFS in an email sent to Mr R in 
February 2022 before he chose to voluntary terminate the agreement. These options 
included Mr R selling the car himself although he says that he cant do so because he wasnt 
the cars owner. And while I agree this is the position set out in the agreement, BMWFS can 
give a consumer its authority to sell a vehicle if they use the proceeds to settle the 
agreement which is what happened here. I dont know why, if Mr R thought he couldnt sell 
the car himself, he didnt query with BMWFS why it had included that in the options it had 
said were open to him. 
Ive seen that Mr R had tried to part-exchange the car at a dealership to secure a cheaper 
credit agreement but hadnt been approved for a new agreement because of his credit rating 
at that time. So, I accept this option wasnt open to him. But, as set out above I think the 
other options set out by BMWFS in that email were available. 
Mr R says that it would have been fair for BMWFS to be open to other solutions such as 
deferring payments until he had been in a position to make payments. But Ive seen that 
BMWFS says that this option wasnt available to Mr R because it offers a maximum of six 
months deferral to its customers and he had already had his payments deferred for this 
period during the pandemic. 
Listening to the call between BMWFS and Mr R in February 2022, I think he was clear that 
he didnt think at that time he would be back to work until around 10 months had passed. His 
income and expenses were unknown and financially things where very uncertain. I think 
BMWFSs response that it would be irresponsible of it not to take action about the account 
was reasonable. It was trying to ensure Mr R didnt accumulate debt when his income didnt 
appear to be sufficient to cover his living expenses. So, even if Mr R hadnt already deferred 
payments in the past, I dont think deferment would have been an option here given the 
degree of uncertainty in Mr Rs financial circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr R feels that voluntary termination acts in favour of BMWFS and to his detriment, but I think its reasonable to say this was the option he chose. Ive seen he sought 
advice from an independent third-party and that he had received the settlement quote before 
proceeding to formally ask for the voluntary termination. I think its fair to say this was an 
informed choice made by Mr R and that he would have been aware of the amount that he 
would owe following this action.
BWFS has explained that when an agreement is voluntary terminated then the business 
doesnt offset the price reached on the sale of the vehicle against any the balance thats 
outstanding. It says the business accepts the risk that the sale of the vehicle may make a 
profit or a loss. I cant fairly ask BMWFS to change its usual practice here.
So, while I understand that the change to Mr R s financial position was outside of his 
control, I think BMWFS acted fairly in accepting his request to voluntary terminate the 
agreement. It had provided him with his options, and he appeared to have selected the one 
that provided the best outcome for him. I wouldnt have expected BMWFS to go behind Mr 
Rs decision and have asked him why he had selected this option.
As provided in the terms and conditions of the agreement the car was inspected. Ive seen 
Mr R feels that the damage found was minor and shouldnt have incurred charges but Im 
afraid I disagree. The condition report provides photos of the two dents and the scratched 
wheels. I think the damage is beyond fair wear and tear as set out in BVRLA guidelines. 
These guidelines set the industry standard as to what is and isnt fair wear and tear when a 
car is returned at the end of a first credit agreement. 
This guidance says that dents that are in the swage line are not acceptable which is what is 
shown in the photos of the two doors and so this damage is chargeable. The scuffs and 
scratches to the two wheels exceed 25mm and again are not acceptable and so would be 
chargeable as being beyond fair wear and tear. Im satisfied that the charges for the damage 
found on the car were reasonable and BMWFS wasnt acting unfairly when it added these to 
Mr Rs account. This was also in line with the agreements terms and conditions.
The agreement was also clear as to mileage limit that applied. I havent seen that Mr R 
disputes that he exceeded the mileage limit but rather says that adding these charges when 
his financial predicament was so precarious was unfair. But I cant reasonably say that 
BMWFS wasnt entitled to add the excess mileage fee here.
I appreciate my decision is going to be of disappointment to Mr R but Im not upholding his 
complaint. Im sorry that he has suffered from a health condition and I hope that he is 
recovering well from his surgery, but I cant reasonably say that BMWFS has acted unfairly. 
It provided Mr R with his options when he fell into financial difficulties and he chose to 
voluntary terminate. BMWFS has applied the terms and conditions of the agreement when 
following Mr Rs instruction to voluntary terminate the agreement. An agreement that Mr R 
had signed to show he was content to abide by its terms.
I also think that in light of the damage found on the car and the number of miles driven by Mr 
R, that BMWFS was entitled to add the end of contract charges for these things. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and although Im sorry for the difficult time Mr R has 
experienced, Im not upholding his complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman