DRN-3165606
The complaint
Mr G complains Tenerity Limited trading as Sentinel Gold (Tenerity) are responsible for 
refunding premiums on a mis-sold Card Protection Insurance (CPI) policy.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant sections below, and they form part of my final decision.
Mr G got in touch with his credit card provider, who Ill call B, as he felt hed been mis-sold 
his CPI. I understand the CPI was taken out in 1994.
B replied to the complaint in May 2018. They said theyd only reviewed Mr Gs policy up to 
14 January 2005, as anything sold after that time was subject to a redress scheme agreed 
with the regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). B accepted the policy may not 
have been suitable, and refunded premiums paid by Mr G prior to 14 January 2005.
Premiums paid after 14 January 2005 came under the redress scheme, so Mr G complained 
to Tenerity. They said they could see a letter was sent to Mr Gs address on 
4 February 2015, and the claim form was sent 26 August 2015. They said the scheme never 
heard back from Mr G. They added the scheme only accepted claims within a seven-month 
period, or if certain specified exceptional circumstances applied to Mr G, for 13 months. The 
exceptional circumstances time bar date was 19 September 2016  and all claim forms after 
this are permanently time barred. So, as theyd received Mr Gs letter after this date, his 
claim was time barred and wouldnt be reviewed.
Unhappy with this reply, Mr G got in touch with us. He explained hed continued to pay the 
annual premiums for the CPI for some time, and that hed only found out about the scheme 
recently. He says the letters from the scheme went to an address he left over 20 years ago, 
but Tenerity had the correct address on record. Mr G says he knows this because he 
received a policy renewal letter in May 2015, which was between the two letters the scheme 
sent, to his correct address So, he asked us to look into things. 
One of our Investigators did so. In summary he found that Mr G had updated his address 
with Tenerity in April 2015, but Tenerity told our service they didnt update Mr Gs address 
with the redress scheme. He said it wasnt clear that Mr G was responsible for any errors, as 
he didnt know about the scheme, so couldnt make a claim. And Tenerity explained the 
third-party company did a search of peoples credit files to establish their current addresses 
so couldnt say why they wouldnt have had Mr Gs correct address. But he felt had Tenerity 
told the third party about Mr Gs address change, then he could potentially have been 
contacted at the correct address. So, our investigator felt Tenerity should refund the cost of 
the premiums that would have been considered under the scheme, with 8% interest on those 
payments, and pay £100 compensation as an apology for the inconvenience hes had. 
Tenerity didnt accept this. They said the scheme rules only allowed for correspondence to 
the last known address, so thats what happened. Tenerity also suggested Mr G may have 
been aware of the scheme and asked what prompted his address change in April 2015 (just 
a few months after the first letter about the scheme in February 2015) if he didnt know about 
the scheme and had moved many years prior. Tenerity said the rules of the scheme were 
authorised by the High Court, and theyve not accepted other claims were people were 
contacted at old addresses. So, they didnt think itd be right to do that because Mr G thinks 
this isnt fair. 
Because Tenerity didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. This aspect doesnt apply to the scheme 
rules, for the reasons I explain in the next section.
The scheme
Mr Gs complaint is that he never received the original claim letter sent in February 2015, or 
the claim form sent in August 2015, despite updating his address with Tenerity in April 2015. 
He says as a result of this, he lost out on the opportunity to join the scheme.
As Mr G is now aware, the FCA agreed a redress scheme in 2015 to compensate 
consumers like Mr G whod taken out CPI. This scheme essentially required businesses, 
including Tenerity, to refund all CPI premiums paid from 14 January 2005 onwards. The 
scheme was agreed by the High Court.
The FCA also decided  as it can when this kind of scheme is agreed  that our service must 
follow the rules of the scheme when deciding complaints about sales of policies that would 
have been covered by the scheme. Mr Gs policy was covered by the scheme.
That means that rather than deciding whats fair and reasonable, regarding the scheme, I 
can only look at whether the scheme rules were followed.
The rules required Mr G to have submitted a claim, at the latest (subject to specified 
exceptional circumstances), by 19 September 2016.
Mr G didnt do that, so under the scheme rules, which I (nor Tenerity) can depart from, hes 
not eligible for a refund of his premiums.
Should Tenerity have updated Mr Gs address
So, the key question in this case is whether Tenerity should have updated Mr Gs address 
with the third party company.
Its not in dispute that Mr G did update his address, though Tenerity have said they dont 
have any notes to say why he updated his address just two months after the scheme letter 
was sent in February 2015. Theyve questioned the timing of Mr G updating his address, 
saying theyre not sure what prompted him to do that if he moved so long ago.
I dont think this is an unreasonable question. I say that because Mr G said hed moved in 
1998  so its unclear why he updated his address 17 years later with them. Regardless of this though I dont think its a reasonable expectation for Tenerity to have 
updated his address with an entirely separate company  even though the scheme was for 
some of Teneritys customers. I would not expect a business to routinely share customer 
data with the scheme operators once any initial data gathering exercise had been 
completed.  And they had no way of knowing if Mr G also wanted to update his address with 
the scheme, so they couldnt advise Mr G on what to do.  So, I need to disagree with our 
Investigator on that point. That means that, whatever the reason for Mr Gs contact in 
April 2015 with Tenerity, I dont think they had to update the scheme administrator with his 
new address.
Given that, although I understand Mr G will be disappointed, I find Tenerity arent required to 
refund the premiums or pay him any compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Tenerity didnt reply by the deadline set.
Mr G said Tenerity had confirmed he qualified to receive compensation under the scheme, 
but unusual events prevented him from doing so. He said he suspected very few cardholders 
found themselves in his exact circumstances. He also asked for clarification on why Id said 
hed updated his address, as he said hed not had any contact with them. Overall, he felt 
Tenerity should be morally obliged to pay up, and if theres scope for negotiation hed settle 
for 50% refund of the premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This aspect doesnt apply to the scheme rules, for the reasons I explained in the provisional 
decision, set out above.
The Scheme
Mr G is right, in that he did qualify for a refund of premiums under the scheme rules. But, as 
Ive set out above, those same rules required Mr G to have submitted a claim by 
19 September 2016 at the latest. And his claim wasnt submitted in time, so I cant require 
Tenerity to deal with his claim under the scheme rules.
Mr Gs address
The information provided by Tenerity shows Mr Gs address was updated in 2015, but they 
cant provide any more information about why this happened.
Mr G hadnt previously disputed updating his address, so I believed hed accepted hed done 
this. As he now disputes this, I think its fair to explain I cant say with certainty he did update 
his address. Memories can and do fade, so its possible he did and has since forgotten.
But, in any event, the key issue is whether Tenerity were required to update his address with 
the scheme administrator. And, as Ive set out above, I dont think they were as they couldnt 
know Mr G wanted them to have his updated address.
So, although I understand Mr G believes Tenerity are morally obligated to refund some 
premiums, I cant agree with that.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman