DRN-1162525
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that the mortgage deal they took out with Barclays Bank UK PLC in 
2017 has an early repayment charge (ERC). 
What happened
In August 2015 Mr and Mrs C took a mortgage with Barclays. The preferential rate ran until 
30 July 2017 and didn't have an ERC so Mr and Mrs C could overpay (or pay off) their 
mortgage.
In May 2017 they contacted Barclays to ask about a new rate. Information about this was 
sent to them via an online link.
On 29 June 2017 Mr and Mrs C selected a new rate which was fixed at 1.65% for the 
remainder of the term (which was just over five years). The mortgage offer was made 
available through the online portal and Mrs C confirmed her and Mr C's acceptance of it 
(which was allowed as either party could give authority, it didn't need both of them).
In 2019 Mr and Mrs C complained to Barclays that they'd incur an ERC if they made an 
overpayment of more than 10% to their mortgage. Barclays rejected the complaint.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint, saying Mr and Mrs C applied for the rate online 
and all the information was made available to them. Mr and Mrs C didn't agree with the 
adjudicator's findings and so it's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's not in dispute that Mr and Mrs C applied for their new rate online without the benefit of 
advice from Barclays. But they say the mortgage offer was misleading as they thought the 
terms (ie that there was no ERC) were the same as their previous 2015 preferential rate.
Mr and Mrs C have said the 2017 mortgage offer was misleading because it says:
'Mortgage Exit fee (payable on final repayment of the mortgage and is non-
refundable).'
'You will need to pay a Mortgage Exit fee as detailed in the Offer document that was 
issued when you originally took out the loan.'
 'A Mortgage Exit fee is payable if you repay the mortgage in full (as detailed in the 
Offer document issued when you originally took out the loan).' 
They say the reference to the original mortgage reassured them the terms were the same 
(that is, that there wasn't an ERC). But the Mortgage Exit fee is not the same as the ERC. 
The 2015 mortgage just had a Mortgage Exit fee (referred to as a Final Repayment Charge at that time), whereas the 2017 mortgage had a Mortgage Exit fee and an ERC. This is clear 
from section 10 of the 2017 mortgage offer that says "Should you repay your mortgage, the 
maximum charge you could pay is £8,130.00 plus the Mortgage Exit fee.'
The 2017 mortgage offer has a section entitled '10. What happens if you do not want this 
mortgage any more?' and that sets out the details of the ERC. It confirms the ERC would 
be payable if the mortgage was repaid before 31 October 2022 and states it would be 3% of 
the amount repaid, giving a maximum monetary figure for that of £8,130.
Section 11 is entitled 'What happens if you want to make overpayments?' and explains a 
capital reduction of 10% per annum can be made without incurring the ERC.
This is in comparison to the 2015 mortgage offer which says in section 10 'No early 
repayment charges are applied to this mortgage.' And in section 11 'There are no restrictions 
on you making overpayments to this mortgage.'
Mr and Mrs C have taken one part of the 2017 contract out of context (that is the reference 
to their original mortgage in relation to the Mortgage Exit fee), but that had no bearing on the 
ERC. Barclays set out the terms of the contract Mr and Mrs C were entering into; that 
is, they would incur an ERC if they overpaid more than 10% a year. The contract was set out 
using the standard format agreed by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. I can't 
hold Barclays liable if Mr and Mrs C didn't fully read all the terms that were set out in the 
contract. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman