DRN-2466150
The complaint
Mr L complained that Quidie Limited (trading as Quidie) acted irresponsibly when it gave 
him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Quidie told us it had mistakenly overlooked two loans when Mr L first complained. But it now 
seems to be agreed that Mr L took out seven loans in total with Quidie between September 
2015 and December 2018 with gaps in-between some loans.  
Heres a table showing more information:
Loan Date TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 27/09/2015 14/10/2015 1 £400.00 £457.60
Break in lending
2 16/06/2016 20/07/2016 1 £175.00 £222.60
Break in lending
3 12/08/2017 16/10/2017 3 £400.00 £175.87
4 27/10/2017 08/01/2018 3 £250.00 £101.69
Break in lending
5 10/07/2018 15/08/2018 1 £250.00 £294.28
6 16/08/2018 12/11/2018 3 £250.00 £107.82
7 21/12/2018 Outstanding 3 £250.00 £115.16
Mr L said that he should never have been given the loans and that he was trapped in a cycle 
of borrowing which was made worse by these loans.
When Mr L complained to Quidie it said it didnt believe that it acted irresponsibly and the 
loans Quidie issued were fair and affordable based on the information Mr L provided at the 
time and the checks that were carried out. 
It did however offer to waive the interest on the last loan which was still outstanding in order 
to reduce the balance Mr L owed if he agreed to settle his complaint on this basis.
Mr L didnt feel this offer went far enough to resolve his concerns so he brought his 
complaint to us.
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Mr Ls circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Quidie to ask Mr L for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. Our adjudicator didnt think there was any reason why Quidie shouldve been 
prompted to check what Mr L had said about his financial situation. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr L had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Quidie was enough to show 
Quidie that Mr L was having money problems. 
So he didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
Mr L mainly feels that Quidie shouldve done additional checks and had it done so it 
wouldve seen information that showed these loans werent likely to be sustainably 
affordable for him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Quidie provided Mr L with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Quidie was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr L before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ls 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Quidie says it relied on information Mr L provided about his monthly income and expenditure 
as well as information obtained from credit reference agencies and it agreed to Mr Ls 
applications after carrying out affordability checks. 
Quidie said its checks showed that repaying the balances shouldnt become difficult for him - 
and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. In coming to my decision, Ive looked at each of Mr Ls Quidie loans and thought about what 
Quidie knew, or shouldve known, about his financial situation each time he applied to 
borrow. 
loans 1 and 2 
Theres only limited information about these loans. Quidie has explained that when it 
updated its systems old loans that were no longer running werent moved on to its new 
system  and that included the loans Mr L had taken out in 2015 and 2016. 
Its unfortunate that Quidie didnt include these in its response when it replied to Mr Ls 
complaint. But I can see how that happened  and it isnt a reason for me to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint about them.  
I have looked carefully through all the information provided, including information that 
appeared on credit checks carried out for later loans (which also covers the periods when 
Mr L was paying loans 1 and 2). 
Overall, I havent seen enough to make me think that Quidie was wrong to lend Mr L loan 1 
or loan 2. 
So I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about these loans.
loan 3
The gap in lending between Mr L paying loan 2 and taking out loan 3 was just over a year so 
this meant that when Mr L applied for loan 3, he was effectively starting over. It was fair for 
Quidie to treat this as new borrowing and assess his lending requests accordingly.
I dont think there was anything in the information that Quidie had recorded for Mr L, or 
anything else that it shouldve been aware of, which wouldve made Quidie think this loan 
wasnt affordable for Mr L. I think that the amounts that Mr L needed to repay on this loan 
wouldve seemed easily affordable compared with the take home pay hed declared and 
what hed told Quidie about his expenses. 
And given what was apparent about his circumstances I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Quidie to probe deeper and ask Mr L for the amount of information that 
would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing this loan.
So I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about loan 3.
loan 4 
Mr L repaid loan 3 by the due date and a week or so later he took out loan 4.
I've taken into account that Mr L feels that borrowing loans in quick succession shouldve 
alerted Quidie to the possibility that he wasnt using loans for their intended purpose. 
But hed repaid the previous loan without any evident signs of difficulty  and loan 4 was for 
a smaller amount. This loan looked like it shouldve been comfortably affordable for Mr L  
his monthly income was in excess of £2,000 and his expenses worked out at around £1,300, 
even after allowing for an amount that was being spent on other credit commitments. So this 
ought to have left Mr L with ample money to make the loan repayments on loan 4.  
I dont think Quidie had any reason to think it needed to ask any more in depth questions or 
check what Mr L was saying about his financial situation and the information it relied on 
didnt give any indication that hed find it hard to pay this loan in a sustainable way.So I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about loan 4.
loan 5 
Mr L didnt ask Quidie for any more loans during the period January  July 2018. That gap in 
lending seems long enough to me for Quidie reasonably to think that Mr L mightve put his 
finances in order during this period. This meant that when his borrowing started again, and 
Mr L applied for loan 5, he was in effect starting a new borrowing period. So it was fair for 
Quidie to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess his lending requests 
accordingly
When Mr L took out loan 5 he borrowed the same amount as the last loan hed repaid 
around 6 months or so earlier and hed paid that loan on time. His financial situation was 
more or less unchanged  although it looks like he had a little more pay that month and he 
had a few hundred pounds more available to spend. The loan repayment he had to make the 
following month for this loan appeared to be easily affordable on the figures that Quidie had 
recorded for Mr L. 
Ive looked through the credit information that Quidie obtained when assessing this loan 
application. I dont think Quidie wouldve seen anything that ought to have made it think that 
it needed more information about Mr Ls financial circumstances before agreeing to lend 
again or that it shouldnt have provided loan 5. So I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about 
loan 5.
loan 6
Mr L took out this loan around five weeks or so after he paid loan 5  and again he borrowed 
the same amount as the last loan hed paid. This doesnt suggest to me that his borrowing 
habit looked like it was escalating or that Quidie shouldve realised this showed Mr Ls debt 
was spiralling. The monthly repayments looked to be well within the affordability figures 
Quidie had worked out based on what Mr L had told it and the information it had gathered 
about his finances. When assessing affordability, Quidie had allowed for a substantial 
amount being allocated to pay for other credit. This still left Mr L with more than £600  
ample to cover the monthly repayment of £115.16 he had to make on this loan. 
So I dont feel Ive seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ls complaint about loan 6.
loan 7
Five weeks or so after he paid loan 6, Mr L took out loan 7  for the same amount again. 
Im sorry that Mr L has had problems paying this loan. And I can appreciate that his 
circumstances werent fully reflected in the information that Quidie relied on. But, I dont think 
that proportionate checks wouldve required Quidie to ask Mr L any more in-depth questions 
than it did or require him to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources 
to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I think its reasonable to say that Quidie was entitled to decide Mr Ls lending application 
based on the information it had available at the time. And its decision to lend loan 7 doesnt 
seem unreasonable to me looking at the information it relied on when deciding whether to 
provide the loan.  
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr L said has said. Repeated borrowing can be a sign 
of someone becoming reliant on this sort of borrowing. And there does come a point where 
repeated borrowing probably indicates that a person has become dependent on taking out high cost short-term loans. And that lending would be unfair because it wasnt being used for 
the purpose it was intended for - to help with temporary or unexpected money problems.
But I cant fairly or reasonably say that Quidie shouldve realised that lending to Mr L had 
become unfair. Even by loan 7, the gaps in lending meant that this was effectively only his 
third loan in this chain of borrowing  and when Quidie agreed to lend, it looked like this loan 
should be easily affordable for him.  
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say Quidie did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that Quidie did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr L. So it 
doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. In coming to my decision Ive 
thought carefully about everything that Mr L has said, including the comments made in 
response to our adjudicators view. I appreciate he feels strongly about this complaint. I can 
see that our adjudicator has already replied dealing with points hes raised and I dont think 
theres anything I can usefully add to what our adjudicator has already said. 
In my decision Ive dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this 
complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive 
reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman