DRN-2393290
The complaint
Mr W complains that the hire purchase agreement financed by First Response Finance Ltd 
(FRF) through which he acquired a motor vehicle was unaffordable. He wants interest and 
charges refunded.
What happened
Mr W tells us that at the time FRF approved this finance he was in a cycle of relying on 
payday lenders. And he doesnt think sufficient checks were carried out by FRF before it 
approved this agreement. Mr W states that he continued to use payday loans after FRFs 
loan. And that whilst hes since repaid FRF and other loans, to do this he needed to take out 
a lengthy, secured credit agreement which he says is still currently being repaid.
Agreement details:
 Type of agreement: Hire purchase agreement
 Start date: 31 October 2013
 Credit: £4,795
 Charge for credit: £2,089.46
 Total to pay: £7,084.46
 Monthly payment: £162.13pm with a final payment of £237.13
 Duration: 42 months
FRF told us it had made credit checks. And sought to confirm Mr Ws salary by seeing a 
copy of his payslip. It also confirmed that it had recognised the payday loans shown on his 
credit file but could see these were always settled. It said that it had made proportionate 
checks.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the checks carried out 
by FRF werent sufficient. And that Mr W had been relying on payday loans and had taken 
out a £3,000 loan just before the FRF agreement. He thought that FRF shouldve carried out 
further checks. And had it done so its likely it wouldnt have agreed the finance.
Initially, FRF accepted the investigators view but subsequently changed its position. As its 
not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to agreeing to lend, FRF was required to make reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Mr W could afford to repay the finance in a sustainable way.
Theres no fixed list of how to assess creditworthiness but amongst the factors to consider 
would be the type of credit being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount 
of the repayments and the total cost of credit. And anything that FRF knew about Mr Ws 
financial history.
In order to determine if the loan was unaffordable the main issues I need to consider are:
1. Did FRF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision based on those checks?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr W would be 
able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way?
2. Did FRF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did FRF complete reasonable and proportionate checks?
Its not in dispute that FRF carried out credit reference checks. And sought to verify some 
aspects of Mr Ws income and expenditure. And its confirmed that it had identified the 
payday loans hed previously taken out. But whilst recognising that Mr W had been 
repeatedly taken out payday loans in the months leading up to this loan, it doesnt seem to 
have fully considered the implications of this. Or the likely impact on Mr Ws ability to repay 
this loan. 
FRF had calculated Mr Ws available disposable income as just over £700 per month. Id 
have thought this would have led to enquiries as to why someone with apparently substantial 
disposable income should have to repeatedly require payday loans. And why two credit 
cards would be over the agreed limit and a third close to it.
Had these enquiries been made its likely that FRF wouldve seen a rather different picture. 
Its not for this service to say what checks FRF should have specifically done, but I think a 
more thorough consideration and verification of Mr Ws income and expenditure was 
required.
Ive looked at Mr Ws bank statements as that gives the best approximation of what FRF 
would have likely learnt or seen had they carried out proportionate checks.
Between July 2013 and October 2013 Mr W took out at least 10 payday loans totalling more 
than £3,000. Repayments of these loans over the same period came to over £6,000. So Mr 
Ws additional expenditure in repaying these loans was averaging about £750 per month. A 
factor that wasnt included in FRFs affordability assessment.
Clearly, this pattern of borrowing and repaying couldnt be sustained without either an 
increase in income or additional borrowing. And so it proved.Apart from the payday loans, FRF would likely have seen that in the month before its finance 
was agreed on 31 October 2013, Mr W had taken out an additional personal loan of £3,000 
with a different provider. And it would also have seen that part of this loan was immediately 
used to pay off a payday loan. The £3,000 loan was credited to Mr Ws account on 13 
September 2013. On 17 September, Mr W repaid a payday lender £1,094.55. Even so, 
further payday loans were taken out in the period before FRFs loan.  
Had FRF seen this pattern of borrowing its hard to think it wouldve concluded its agreement 
to offer finance to Mr W was affordable. And whilst FRF cant know what would happen after 
it made its decision, Ive seen that Mr W continued to take out further payday loans. The 
statements Ive seen for the two month period immediately after the FRF agreement show 
that he took out six separate payday loans totalling £1,470. And he was also paying off 
earlier payday loans.
FRF pointed out that Mr W maintained payments and settled its agreement early. That is 
factually correct. But this settlement was only possible because in December 2015 Mr W 
took out an eight year secured loan.
Overall, Ive concluded that FRF didnt make reasonable and proportionate checks. And had 
it done so its likely it wouldve concluded the proposed finance was unaffordable for Mr W. 
Accordingly I uphold the complaint.
Did FRF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think that FRF acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way.
Putting things right
As a resolution, because Mr W settled the loan in full and kept the vehicle, I think First 
Response should take the following action:
1. Refund the interest and any fees that Mr W has paid on this agreement  plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
2. Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ws credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
I require First Response Finance Ltd to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding 
section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman