DRN-3781483
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Coloma Wealth Management LLP (Coloma) didnt make their 
fee options clear when arranging a life assurance policy. They also complain that Coloma 
didnt tell them the policy wasnt correctly set up in a trust.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S paid for Colomas work through commission. That means part of the annual 
premium they pay for their policy goes to Coloma, rather than paying for life assurance. 
Coloma have confirmed this method of paying meant that if they hadnt been able to find a 
life policy for Mr and Mrs S, they wouldnt have charged for their work. Coloma have said this 
is why they felt this charging method was best to use. 
Mr and Mrs S later spoke to a different financial adviser. They said it would probably have 
cost Mr and Mrs S less to have paid a fixed fee for the work, given the size of the policys 
sum assured. Mr and Mrs S checked this with the policy provider. It confirmed the annual 
cost of a new policy without commission would be about £1,500 less.
Mr and Mrs S complained, but Coloma pointed out a fixed fee option had been mentioned in 
a leaflet at the time. They also felt it had been clear theyd be paid through commission, and 
noted the premium for the policy had been made clear and accepted by Mr and Mrs S.
While looking into this issue, the policy provider told Mr and Mrs S that Coloma had made an 
error in some trust documents that went with the policy. Mr and Mrs S noted they hadnt 
been told about this by Coloma.
On this point, Coloma said they initially contacted the policy provider about an error in how 
the trust document said to handle terminal illness benefits. But they realised within a few 
days that the policy didnt include terminal illness cover. So it didnt really matter what the 
trust document said about how to handle the non-existent benefit  the policy and its trust 
could have continued without a change.
Unresolved, the complaint came to us. I wrote a provisional decision last time setting out my 
view. I found Coloma should have explained the fee options to Mr and Mrs S, so they could 
make an informed decision about how to pay. I concluded that if thatd been done, Mr and 
Mrs S would probably have chosen a fixed fee option, rather than a commission-based fee. 
Coloma and Mr and Mrs S have sent me some more details. Ive read these, and Ill pick up 
on the key points in this, my final decision for the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still of the view this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why, and 
what Coloma must do next, if this decision is accepted by Mr and Mrs S. 
Ive started here by reading Colomas fee leaflet. I view this as a reliable explanation of the 
way Coloma would generally charge for the type of work they did here.
Page five of that leaflet explained theyd usually use a commission-based fee. It said the size 
of that depended on the type of contract, term of the cover and the premium amount. But 
the leaflet mentioned another option  a fee agreed before any insurance was arranged, 
based on the amount and complexity of the work required. Coloma confirm this sort of 
fee would be charged regardless of whether a policy was taken out at the end of the work.
The explanations in the leaflet are generally fine, but Mr and Mrs S should also have been 
told how this related to them specifically. Colomas response to my provisional decision 
confirms a specific discussion about fixed fees didnt happen. 
While I appreciate Colomas concern about not finding a policy, it should have been Mr and 
Mrs S who decided how to pay. They could only make that decision fairly if Coloma had 
given them a reasonable understanding of the fee options as they applied to their work. 
Id expect Coloma to have seen the high sum assured being discussed  £1 million in this 
case  would lead to a relatively high payment if a policy was arranged with a commission- 
based fee. For the fee discussion to be fair, Coloma should have made sure Mr and Mrs S 
appreciated how this could compare to a pre-agreed fee.
Before I get to how Coloma should put this right, Ive also considered the complaint about 
there being a fault with the trust document Coloma produced.
I explained last time how the evidence Ive seen  particularly some internal emails from 
Coloma  showed there wasnt a significant error in the trust documents. Theyd apparently 
referred to a benefit the policy didnt include being payable to Mr or Mrs S.
As such, I can understand why Coloma didnt mention this to Mr and Mrs S. It wasnt actually 
an issue, even though Coloma briefly thought it was. I currently find nothings needed from 
Coloma to remedy this bit of the complaint.
Putting things right
Coloma should have done more to allow Mr and Mrs S to make an informed choice about 
how to pay for this work. If they had, one of two things could have happened. Mr and Mrs S 
could have chosen the commission-based fee, and things would have been as they actually 
were. Or they could have chosen the pre-agreed fee.
I wrote last time that I wanted to know what the fixed fee offer would have been in 2019. 
Concerned that Coloma would exaggerate its size, Mr S has sought quotes for obtaining a 
similar life policy from other financial advisers. Hes found six quotes, ranging from £1,500 to 
£3,000, which have an average cost of just over £2,000. Thats notably the current price, 
rather than the 2019 price. Given the current state of inflation  albeit driven more by fuel 
and food costs than financial services  Id expect the cost to have been lower in 2019. 
Colomas response to my provisional decision says the cost of the work would have been 
around £7,500. They referred to the work that was actually done when justifying that amount. 
I see thisll be a point of dispute, so Ive thought about what a reasonable fee would have 
been. Ive returned to Colomas fee leaflet to get a feel for what would have been offered in 
2019. Again, I see this as a reliable explanation of Colomas charges. Pages three and four of the leaflet refer to a similar service they offer  investigating and 
advising on pensions and investments. Its similar work in that Coloma would have to get to 
know their clients, research available products, and then prepare a report considering the 
suitability of those products for the clients circumstances. 
The leaflet says the typical fee for this sort of work would be £950 to £2,000. I find thats 
notably in line with the quotes Mr S has found. It leads me to believe if Coloma had 
discussed a fixed fee with Mr and Mrs S in 2019, the figure theyd have discussed would 
have been closer to the amounts Mr S has found. 
While I appreciate Coloma may be telling me what the work actually cost, I dont consider it 
reasonable to use that in my decision. A pre-agreed fixed fee is fair because it has a balance 
of risk for both sides. For Mr and Mrs S, there was the risk theyd pay the fee but not be able 
to get the life policy they wanted. For Coloma, there was the risk the work they did would 
end up being more complicated and costly than theyd anticipated when agreeing to the fee. 
Theres also the realistic possibility that if Coloma had told Mr and Mrs S their fixed fee was 
£7,500, Mr and Mrs S would have gone elsewhere and found a fee more in line with what 
theyve now been quoted. There was nothing tying Mr and Mrs S to Coloma at that point.
So Ive decided to treat the fixed fee as £1,500. Thats in line with the sort of fees Coloma 
would typically charge for similar pensions and investments advice. And its in line with the 
lower end of the quotes Mr S has found more recently, and where the average would have 
been three years ago. 
Im satisfied that if Mr and Mrs S had been told they had an option to pay this sort of fee 
upfront, rather than paying an ongoing commission-based fee, theyd have chosen the fixed 
fee option. They had this money available to them, and the difference it made to the 
premium would have seen Mr and Mrs S incurring less overall expense within a couple of 
years. That possibility would likely have been seen by Mr and Mrs S to balance out the risk 
that no policy would be found. 
Another piece of information I asked for last time was about reworking the policy so it didnt 
include a charge for commission. Coloma havent responded to that request. But I can cover 
the gap with some directions for the remedy. 
If the service had been reasonable, Mr and Mrs S would have taken out a policy that didnt 
include a commission cost in the annual premium. The best indication I have of what that 
would have cost is a quote Mr S got from the policy provider on 7 December 2020. It tells me 
the annual cost of Mr and Mrs Ss policy with no commission charge would be £18,208.52. 
Thats a quote from a year later than it should be. Mr and Mrs S were after a policy in 2019. 
Assuming prices would probably rise as Mr and Mrs S get older, Im going to treat this as the 
upper limit for the annual premium. If Coloma can get a quote for the annual cost of the 
policy in 2019 that is lower than this amount, the following remedy should use that. But I 
wont accept any higher quotes for the premium. 
To put things right, Coloma should make it so Mr and Mrs S pay no more than £18,208.52 
per year for their life assurance. That could mean going back to the policy provider and 
reverting the policy to what it would have been in 2019, if the work had been done for a fixed 
fee. If thats not possible, Coloma should reimburse Mr and Mrs S for the extra premium 
theyll pay each year, on proof that its been paid. 
At the moment, that means an annual payment from Coloma to Mr and Mrs S of £1,481.17. 
Thats the difference between the figure quoted above, and the premium quoted on 20 January 2020, which I understand is the one Mr and Mrs S continue to pay. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S have already paid some of the higher premiums. Coloma need to 
refund that over-payment, less what their fixed fee would have cost. As Ive said above, that 
should be treated as £1,500. Not the £7,500 Coloma put forward in response to my 
provisional decision. Any refund should also include interest at 8%, to reflect that Mr and 
Mrs S have been without the use of that money, due to Colomas failing. 
In my provisional decision, I asked for details about other work Coloma had done without 
charge at the time. Their reasoning for making no charge appeared to be that theyd 
received such a large commission payment for the life cover work, they felt they could do 
extra for free. But Mr S doesnt agree he asked for that work to be done. I can appreciate he 
might have chosen not to go ahead with it, if Coloma had said they intended to charge. 
As such, Im not going to factor that work in to my remedy here. It would be to create a new 
dispute, where currently there isnt one. Coloma may choose whether to go back and 
reassess the cost of that work and bill it to Mr and Mrs S. That may prompt a new complaint, 
which could then come to us as a separate matter if not resolved. 
But on the matter of the cost information for the life policy work, Im satisfied the remedy 
above puts right the financial impact the lack of full cost details had on Mr and Mrs S. The 
only matter left is the emotional impact. 
On that point, I said last time how I felt a payment of £250 from Coloma to Mr and Mrs S 
would acknowledge the upset caused by the issue. It reflects that Mr and Mrs S werent 
being asked to pay more than they budgeted for. But rather that they later found out there 
had been a better option Coloma hadnt fully made them aware of. The financial cost of that 
will be put right with the remedy above. And the additional £250 acknowledges the emotional 
impact on Mr and Mrs S. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about Coloma Wealth Management LLP. 
To put things right, Coloma should now:
- Ensure Mr and Mrs S pay the annual premium that would have applied if theyd 
agreed a fixed fee for the work in 2019. This should be no more than £18,208.52 per 
year. I will leave it open for Coloma to achieve this by either annually refunding Mr 
and Mrs Ss payments of higher premiums, or by arranging a change to the policys 
premium with its provider. 
- Refund the over-payments already made by Mr and Mrs S for the policy, less £1,500 
for the fixed fee that would likely have been paid if the service had been reasonable.
- Pay interest of 8% per annum on that refund, from the date Mr and Mrs S made the 
over-payment to the date Coloma give them the refund. 
- Pay £250 compensation to Mr and Mrs S to acknowledge the trouble and upset 
caused by the failing in this case.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022. Ive made this a five-week response 
time  rather than our usual four weeks  to reflect what Mr and Mrs S have told us about 
their availability during the period. 
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman