DRN-3820224
The complaint
Ms J complains National House-Building Council (NHBC) hasnt treated her fairly, following a 
claim on her building warranty policy.
What happened
Ms J bought a new-build property thats covered by a ten-year building warranty policy. In 
the first two years, she made a claim for various issues.
During the first two years of cover, section 2 of the policy applies. The builder of the property 
is, in the first instance, responsible for any issues that arise during years 0-2. However, if 
theres a dispute between the homeowner and the builder, NHBC provides its resolution 
service. NHBC will investigate whether there was a breach of the NHBC Requirements 
during construction and issue a resolution report with its findings. If NHBC requires the 
builder to act, and the builder doesnt comply, NHBC becomes responsible for those 
required actions.
In May 2022, NHBC issued a resolution report covering eight items. Four items  items 1, 2, 
4, and 8  required action by the builder. NHBC set a deadline of 14 June 2022. But in 
May 2022, NHBC agreed to extend the deadline to 21 June 2022.
On 17 June 2022, the builder told NHBC that whilst the actions hadnt been completed, it 
had offered dates to Ms J. So, on 20 June 2022, NHBC told Ms J the involvement of its 
resolution service had now ended. NHBC said it wasnt its role to become involved in 
negotiations regarding access. Ms J complained.
On 28 June 2022, NHBC issued a final response to Ms Js complaint. NHBC accepted Ms J 
had provided clear dates to the builder, and it shouldnt have closed her case. NHBC said 
both parties were to put forward available dates, with the deadline being 5 August 2022. 
NHBC noted this was the last extension to be given to the builder. NHBC said if actions 
remain outstanding after 5 August 2022, it will consider taking over.
On 4 July 2022, in view of the work involved, the builder asked for another extension. NHBC 
agreed, with the new deadline being 12 August 2022. Ms J went on to make a second 
complaint. Ms J wanted NHBC to take over the outstanding work.
On 9 August 2022, NHBC issued a second final response. NHBC said the builders further 
extension request wasnt unreasonable in principle, but it accepted Ms J wasnt available 
between 6 August and 12 August 2022. NHBC also acknowledged the further extension 
contradicted its previous final response, but it noted the proposed extension was now 
irrelevant given it had since agreed to attend and review the outstanding items. NHBC 
offered £100 compensation for the delays. 
Ms J remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to our service. NHBC has told us it 
attended on 24 August 2022, and its now taking over the actions required of the builder. 
NHBC has also told us the £100 compensation has since been paid.
One of our investigators didnt think we could consider events before 14 June 2021, and she 
concluded £100 was fair compensation for the delays after that date. Ms J remained 
unhappy, so her complaint has been passed to me to decide. Ms J considers the 
compensation should be increased to between £500 and £1,000.
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision setting out what points we can, and cant, consider. 
I said we cant consider any matters relating to items 3, 5, 6 and 7, or any matters relating to 
items that werent considered by NHBCs resolution service. However, we can consider 
matters relating to items 1, 2, 4, and 8, providing they occurred between 22 June and 
9 August 2022.
I will now set out my findings about the matters we can consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive carefully considered all the submissions, it isnt my role to comment on every 
point made. Its for me to determine the crux of the complaint, and to address the issues 
I consider relevant to its outcome. Where Ive not directly commented on points that are 
within our jurisdiction, this isnt intended as a discourtesy. Its simply a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service, its remit, and my role in it. 
As explained in my jurisdiction decision, Im satisfied NHBC became responsible for the 
required actions on items 1, 2, 4, and 8 when the builder failed to meet the deadline of 
21 June 2022. The policy terms state the following:
-If the builder failed to meet the NHBC requirements when building your home(s) and 
has not put things right after the resolution service says they should we will either pay 
you or your managing agent what it would cost us to have the work done or, if we 
choose to, we will undertake the work.
As such, I accept Ms Js point that NHBC didnt comply with the policy terms by continuing to 
give the builder further opportunities, rather than cash settling, or carrying out the required 
actions itself. However, given the builder hadnt refused to carry out the actions and it was 
open to arranging dates, Im not persuaded NHBC was acting unfairly or unreasonably by 
giving the builder until 5 August 2022. This remained the quickest solution for Ms J.
Ill turn now to the further extension of 12 August 2022. On the one hand, I dont consider the 
extension was unreasonable given it was requested whilst the builder was planning the work 
and it was only for one further week. I also dont find it unreasonable that NHBC explained it 
would need to extend the deadline by another week if Ms J wasnt available from 8 August 
to 12 August 2022. 
But on the other hand, I can understand Ms Js upset given NHBCs commitment no further 
extensions would be given; particularly as she wasnt available during the week in question. 
I can also understand Ms Js upset that NHBC said its resolution service may be withdrawn 
if an extension couldnt be agreed beyond 12 August 2022 to accommodate her availability. 
As noted above, NHBC had already become responsible for the required actions, so it no 
longer had the option to withdraw.  
Ultimately, having considered the above, Ive not seen anything that persuades me the 
compensation ought reasonably to be increased above £100.I understand Ms J is unhappy with NHBCs actions and/or its proposed settlement method 
following its visit on 24 August 2022. If so, Ms J needs to make a new complaint to NHBC 
about those matters before this service can become involved. If she doesnt receive a final 
response within eight weeks of making her complaint, or if shes unhappy after receiving 
the final response, she can refer the complaint to our service.
I also understand Ms J has complained to NHBC about a new claim. Again, if she doesnt 
receive a final response within eight weeks of when she made her complaint, or if shes 
unhappy after receiving the final response, she can refer the complaint to our service. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Ms J. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman