DRN-3650404
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the commission Johnston Campbell Ltd (previously Bar & Law 
Ltd, but referred to throughout this decision for simplicity as Johnston Campbell) continued 
to receive commission from her pension.
What happened
On 28 January 2011 Johnston Campbell wrote to Mrs M outlining its advice in respect of 
switching her pension. The letter explained how Johnston Campbell would be paid for the 
advice ie by commission of 2% initially and 0.5% annually thereafter based on the value of 
Mrs Ms investment fund.
The commission payments were also outlined in the pension providers Key Facts document. 
It said for arranging the switch the pension provider would pay commission to Johnston 
Campbell  £3,760 initially and then 0.5% of the investment fund value each year (in monthly 
instalments) until 2 March 2030.
In 2012 Mrs M made a complaint about the advice shed received as she felt it resulted in 
her receiving less income. She said she told Johnston Campbell that she would never do 
any business with it again.
In February 2021 the pension provider told Mrs M it had paid Johnston Campbell £776.73 
commission over the previous 12 months. Mrs M enquired with Johnston Campbell, who 
confirmed it received commission from the pension provider as when the plan was set up 
this was the payment basis selected at the time. Mrs M asked for the commission to be 
refunded as she felt Johnston Campbell had been unlawfully taking the money since 2012. 
Johnston Campbell told Mrs M that as per the original agreement it was entitled to receive 
the commission  so it wouldnt refund any of it.
Mrs M remained unhappy so she referred the matter to us. In summary, shes unhappy that 
Johnston Campbell kept receiving commission when it hadnt done any work to earn it. 
Johnston Campbell told us that the continued commission it received was for the initial 
advice in 2011  not for ongoing advice each year.
I issued a decision on 28 July 2022 as Johnston Campbell felt Mrs M had referred the 
complaint to us too late. I decided that we could only consider Mrs Ms complaint about the 
commission Johnston Campbell received from 10 June 2015 onwards.
Our investigator concluded that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She didnt think Johnston 
Campbell had acted unfairly as the commission it received was in line with the agreement at 
the time of advice. She said the commission was trail commission and was effectively 
payment made over a period of time for the initial advice, instead of the full amount being 
paid at the outset. She didnt think Mrs M was entitled to receive ongoing advice from 
Johnston Campbell just because commission continued to be paid. She felt the nature of the 
commission had been sufficiently explained to Mrs M and that shed agreed to it.
Mrs M disagreed with our investigators conclusion. She re-iterated that she stopped all 
business association with Johnston Campbell after the 2012 complaint and told it verbally 
that she would never do business with it again. She said it never gave her any subsequent 
advice and she never expected any. She thinks its robbery and unjust that Johnston 
Campbell could continue to receive the commission without her permission and doing 
nothing for her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The documentation from the time of the advice outlined how Johnston Campbell was going 
to be paid for the advice it provided to Mrs M in respect of her pension switch. I think its also 
significant that Mrs Ms complaint to us only concerned the commission payments Johnston 
Campbell received from 2012 onwards after she made her initial complaint  it didnt concern 
any payments received prior to that point. Im therefore satisfied that Mrs M knew about the 
payment arrangements and was happy with them  at least until 2012.
The situation changed in 2012. Given the complaint Ive no reason to doubt what Mrs M told 
us about her telling Johnston Campbell that she no longer wanted to do business with it. 
That type of reaction is plausible if a customer is unhappy with the service provided. I 
understand the sentiment behind Mrs Ms argument ie why should Johnston Campbell 
continue receiving payment if it hasnt done anything to earn it. However, the commission 
related to the work Johnston Campbell did in respect of the advice in 2011  it wasnt for 
ongoing advice. So it had done work to earn the payment. I dont think Mrs M not wanting to 
do continued business with Johnston Campbell should automatically mean that it wasnt 
entitled to receive payment as per the original agreement for the work it had already done.
With the above in mind, I conclude that Johnston Campbell didnt act unfairly in continuing to 
receive the commission.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman