DRN-2169855
The complaint
Miss B says Provident Personal Credit Limited  trading as Satsuma  irresponsibly lent to 
her.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Satsuma provided to Miss B in October 2018. 
The loan was for £900 and was repaid over 12 monthly instalments of around £150. The 
loan is currently outstanding.
Miss B took a second loan in December 2018, but this loan was cancelled, and Miss B didnt 
make any repayments towards it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint and thought Satsumas checks for the loans 
went far enough. Miss B disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators view because she thought Satsumas checks didnt 
go far enough and it should have been aware that she was struggling financially and had 
other debts. So, it shouldnt have lent to her.
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Miss B about her employment status and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of £900. Satsuma also checked Miss Bs normal 
monthly living costs which amounted to £540 per month. Satsuma says it also searched 
Miss Bs credit file and it has provided the results of its search. There werent any recent 
adverse entries like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time 
the loan was taken out. So, there wasnt anything that ought to have prompted Satsuma to 
ask for further information or do more checks.
As this was the first loan Miss B had borrowed from Satsuma, she was very early on in her 
lending relationship with it. And even though she had to make monthly repayments, the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information she declared 
to Satsuma. And there wasnt anything in the information Miss B provided at the time which 
would have given Satsuma cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of Satsuma to 
have relied on what Miss B gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Satsuma to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Satsuma did before lending the loan 
went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. 
The information Miss B declared to Satsuma at the time of the loan may not have been an 
accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, but I think Satsuma was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Satsuma knew about 
Miss B, I wouldnt have expected Satsuma to verify the information Miss B gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that Satsuma have done something wrong in lending Miss B 
these loans.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Miss B, and Ive thought carefully about 
everything shes told us  including what she has said about taking out a second loan. But 
looking at the details of this loan, she didnt make any payments towards it as it was 
cancelled immediately after it was taken out, so it doesnt change my decision.  Overall, I 
hope my explanation will help Miss B understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint and make no award against Provident Personal Credit 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman