DRN-4328802
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC havent reimbursed him after he fell victim to a scam.
Background
The background to this case is well known to both parties so I dont intend to set it out in full 
here. Briefly, Mr B wanted to buy airline tickets. He contacted a number he had stored on his 
mobile phone for a travel agent hed used previously. However, he says that when he called 
that number, he was connected to a different person. 
They claimed to be an employee of the same agency and so Mr B agreed to purchase 
tickets with him. Hed paid by card previously, but this time his contact asked him to pay for 
the cost of his flights by bank transfer which Mr B agreed to. He transferred a little over 
£1,000 in exchange for three return flights. Unfortunately, Mr B hadnt been speaking to a 
genuine employee of the travel agent but a scammer. He was sent a confirmation email 
containing a fake travel itinerary, but no flights were booked in his name.
He complained to Lloyds. It looked into things, but it didnt agree to reimburse him. It said 
that he shouldve carried out more checks before agreeing to make the payment and he 
shouldve been concerned at being asked to pay by bank transfer. It also pointed out that the 
payee was a limited company that had no connection with the travel agency Mr B believed 
he was communicating with.
Mr B was unhappy with the response he received from Lloyds and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. Mr B 
disagreed with the Investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Mr B is responsible for transactions hes carried out himself. 
However, Lloyds is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. So, Ive considered whether he should be reimbursed 
in full under its provisions. The CRM Code allows Lloyds to decline reimbursement in full if it 
can demonstrate that one of the exceptions under the code applies. In this instance, it seeks 
to rely on the exception that applies where a customer made payment without a reasonable 
basis for believing that  the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
In other words, it argues that Mr Bs belief that this was a genuine business he was 
transacting with was not a reasonable one.
Ive considered the available evidence carefully and I agree with that conclusion. I dont 
doubt that Mr B sincerely believed he was dealing with a legitimate employee of the travel 
agent. However, Lloyds has shown us the text of the warning that it displayed during the 
payment process. This told him to make the payment by card and said in the second of three 
bullet points If you cant pay by card, its often a scam.
I understand he asked the person he was speaking with whether he could pay by card but 
was told that it had to be by bank transfer. Mr B confirmed to us that he would normally pay 
for flights using a credit card and that he did find it strange that he had to pay in this way. In 
the circumstances, I think the warning from the bank shouldve put Mr B on notice that he 
was taking a significant risk by making a bank transfer.
I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish the fact that Mr B has fallen victim to a cruel 
scam here. However, my role is limited to considering the actions and inactions of the bank. 
And while I know that my decision will be a grave disappointment to Mr B, Im not persuaded 
that there was much more it couldve done to protect him and so I dont think it now needs to 
reimburse him.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman