DRN-2696228
The complaint
Ms M complains that, in respect of her home contents insurance claim, AXA Insurance UK 
Plc discriminated against her due to her disability and gave her misleading and incorrect 
information at the start of the claim.
What happened
In November and December 2015 during the removal of her contents from Ms Ms old home 
to storage and subsequently from storage into her new home, a number of her items were 
damaged or went missing. AXA was her insurer for her new property and in early 2016 she 
sought to make a claim for the loss or damage. AXA initially advised that removal from 
storage wasnt covered but allowed the claim to continue. A loss adjusters visit took place in 
late January 2016 following which Ms M was asked to draw up a list of the items damaged or 
missing along with their values. She produced an initial list and a further loss adjuster visit 
took place in March 2016. Ms M advised AXA in May 2016 that she was struggling with ill 
health but would try her best to provide the list.
Ms M appointed someone to act on her behalf and AXA tried a number of times to contact 
that person during 2016 but couldnt get any response. It closed its file in December 2016. 
Ms M contacted AXA again in January 2017 and said she was now acting on her own behalf. 
Although there was then further contact about what AXA needed, ultimately Ms M wasnt 
able to provide a more detailed list or substantiation for the items lost. Also no inventory was 
drawn up when the removers took all the items from her old home into storage. AXA rejected 
the claim in August 2017. The reason it gave was because as it had told Ms M in 2016 the 
policy didnt cover items being removed from storage, only those moved directly between the 
old and new properties.
Ms M further complained to us about the advice she was given when making the claim. This 
was that she need not contact any of the other parties involved  the removers, her previous 
insurers or the storage company. Because of that she feels she lost the opportunity to 
pursue the removal company, as by the time AXA made its final decision, it would have 
prejudiced her right to recover than if she had pursued them at the outset. 
Our investigator reviewed the case and pointed out that, although we take the Equality Act 
2010 into account, we cant make a finding of discrimination. He thought that AXA hadnt 
treated Ms M unfairly in light of her health issues. With regard to the advice given at the 
outset he said that Ms M would have known that from August 2017 AXA wouldnt be 
involved in the claim any more; he couldnt say the advice was unreasonable.
Ms M disagreed  she feels she was bullied and her vulnerable position taken advantage of 
 she asked that we review all her telephone calls with AXA.
Our investigator reviewed those calls but didnt change his view.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must emphasise that this decision concerns only two issues  Ms Ms allegation of 
discrimination in respect of her claim and the initial advice given to her concerning recovery. 
I am aware that that she still has complaints which are being looked at in respect of the 
actual claim and how it was handled and in respect of her complaint that she was mis-sold 
the policy. Those matters will be considered separately.
unfair treatment 
Ms M believes she was treated unfairly, that she was bullied and taken advantage of 
because of her health issues. As our investigator advised Ms M, we take into account the 
law, including the Equality Act 2010, but I do think Ms Ms complaint relates overall to 
whether she was treated fairly by AXA when it considered her claim. I will assume that she is 
disabled, in the sense of having long term health issues and will consider whether AXA 
made reasonable adjustments. This goes beyond poor customer service, it concerns 
whether Ms M was treated differently because of her disability.
Ms M has asked us to listen to the telephone calls she had with AXA. I have listened to all 
the relevant ones, some of them very lengthy. Ive also considered the documents supplied 
by all the parties. My view is that AXA treated Ms M fairly. For the most part the persons she 
spoke to at AXA were polite and listened to what Ms M had to say. And I dont think she had 
any difficulty in putting her points across. I can understand her frustration that, for example, 
the claims handlers couldnt deal with her complaint that she had been mis-sold the policy. 
But they did tell her how to approach it and contacted the right departments for her. 
Ms M felt she was being accused of lying, particularly in respect of what was said to the 
police, but I think AXAs claims handler was trying to point out inconsistencies in what the 
police reported and what Ms M said. And in one call, after AXA had declined the claim there 
was a heated exchange, but I think this was dealt with adequately by AXA in its response. In 
respect of her difficulties with the claim, I note that there were two lengthy visits by the loss 
adjuster, but Ms M had difficulty in putting her list together, in part because of health issues. 
But I do note that during the period she was being chased for it she had appointed someone 
to act on her behalf.
So, although Ms M disagrees with AXAs decision in respect of her claim, I dont think it 
treated her differently because of her disability. And though she felt bullied I dont think the 
evidence shows that there was any intention on AXAs part to do this. So, on the narrow 
point that AXAs decline of the claim was motivated by discrimination or taking advantage of 
Ms Ms vulnerability I dont think that has been shown to be the case here.
incorrect /wrong advice
Ms M says she was told when making her claim that she didnt need to pursue other parties 
involved. She particularly asked about the removal company and whether she should take 
them to the small claims court. She was told that she didnt need to do this, and that AXA 
would deal with the claim and seek to make any recovery, if it paid out, from the other 
parties, where negligence could be shown. I appreciate that by the time the claim was turned 
down in August 2017, Ms M didnt feel able to pursue any such claim. She feels that, whilst 
not being legally out of time, the length of time since the incident would have made it more 
difficult for her to recover.
However, I cant say that AXAs advice to Ms M at the time she made the claim, was wrong. I 
dont think it would be reasonable to advise a consumer to pursue court proceedings at the outset. And if the claim was successful Ms M might have recovered her losses. I would also 
note that it couldnt have been anticipated in January 2016 that the claim would take another 
nineteen months to be decided. And whilst it wouldnt have been ideal to start proceedings in 
August 2017 there was no bar to Ms M doing so. Again, AXA couldnt have anticipated that 
Ms M would have such difficulties with her health. As I think that AXA gave reasonable 
advice, I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman