DRN-3638645
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (trading as NatWest) is holding him 
liable for online transactions which he says he did not make or otherwise authorise. 
Mr S is represented by Mrs A in this matter.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In late September 2021, Mr Ss NatWest debit card was used to make several online 
transactions totalling a little over £24,000.  Mr S contacted NatWest disputing these 
transactions and requested a refund.  As NatWest refused to do this, Mr S raised a 
complaint which he referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mr S disagreed 
with the investigators findings, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
I am satisfied based on the technical evidence NatWest has provided that Mr Ss debit card 
was used to make the disputed transactions concerned.  However, for me to find in Mr Ss 
favour, I would need to be satisfied that a third party made the disputed transactions without 
his consent.  Therefore, the first thing I have considered is Mr Ss testimony to NatWest and 
Mrs As to this Service.
I have listened to a telephone call which took place between Mr S and NatWest in October 
2021.  At the beginning of the telephone call, Mr S appears to confirm that he had previously 
received a call from someone purporting to be from the bank, and then provided this person 
with his debit card details; which resulted in the disputed transactions.  When NatWest told 
Mr S it would not be processing a refund, Mr S changed his account and said that he had not 
given his debit card details out and suggested that they might have been compromised when 
his son used the debit card at an ATM.  Further, Mrs A told our investigator that Mr S 
probably gave his debit card details to scammers.
Having considered the above carefully, I am unable to safely rely on these testimonies.  I say 
this for the following reasons:
Mr S has not detailed the circumstances of his supposed call with someone 
purporting to be from the bank  for example, what was said which persuaded him to 
provide his debit card details.
During the October 2021 call, Mr S changed his testimony: he first told NatWest that 
he had provided his debit card details to a third party over the telephone; then later in 
the call he said he did not do this and suggested his debit card details might have 
been compromised at an ATM.  This change in accounts, to my mind, undermines 
the credibility of Mr Ss testimony.
Mrs A has been unable to provide any further details about this point and is not in a 
position to say, with certainty, whether Mr S provided his debit card details over the 
telephone to scammers.  She has also said that due to Mr Ss personal 
circumstances, he can often become confused about things.
Taking all the above points together, I am unable to safely conclude that Mr S provided his 
debit card details to a third party over the telephone which in turn led to the disputed 
transactions.
I have not seen any evidence to suggest that any other third party, unknown to Mr S, was 
somehow able to compromise his debit card to make the disputed transactions without his 
consent.  In any event, this is not what Mr S says happened in his testimony  which I have 
already addressed above.
NatWest has provided evidence which shows that in September 2021, Mr S was contacted 
on two occasions during the period in which the disputed transactions were made.  It 
appears these were intervention calls to check whether the transactions being made using 
Mr Ss debit card were genuine.  From what I can see, the evidence suggests that Mr S 
confirmed to NatWest that they were.
With the above in mind, I am of the view that one of the following occurred regarding the 
disputed transactions:
Mr S authorised the disputed transactions by making them himself.
Mr S authorised the disputed transactions by giving consent to a third party to do so.
Mr S provided a third party with his debit card to make various transactions on his 
behalf  which in turn placed that individual in a position to make the disputed 
transactions.
oThis scenario  as with the first two bullets  would mean Mr S would be 
liable for the disputed transactions.
I should highlight that Mr S has said in his testimony, amongst other things, that he provided 
authority to his son to make transactions on his behalf  for things such as shopping.  Mrs A 
has also confirmed this.
Based on the evidence before me, I am persuaded, on balance, that it is more likely than 
not, that one of the above scenarios occurred regarding the disputed transactions.  It follows 
that I will not be directing NatWest to refund Mr S the amounts disputed.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman