DRN-2198378
The complaint
Mr B complains about MyClaimSolved Ltd (MCSL) and their failure to submit his claim for 
mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) before the deadline.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr B instructed MCSL to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI on his behalf. He 
signed two letters of authority (LOA) allowing them to submit claims against two separate 
lenders, who Ill refer to as Lender S and Lender B. 
MCSL submitted Data Subject Access Requests (DSAR) to both lenders. Lender S 
confirmed there was a policy that theyd look into. But Mr B cancelled his agreement with 
MCSL in July for this claim within his 14-day cooling off period. So MCSL took no further 
action on this claim.
At the start of August, Mr B asked MCSL to pursue another claim for mis-sold PPI against a 
separate lender, who Ill refer to as Lender M. 
On 3 September, Lender B responded to MCSLs DSAR advising they couldnt locate a 
policy in Mr Bs name. MCSL say they e-mailed Mr B that day to explain because of this, 
they couldnt pursue that claim any further.
On 4 September, MCSL say they received the documents sent by Mr B relating to his claim 
against Lender M. As this was after the PPI deadline had expired, they returned the 
documents to Mr B. But Mr B didnt realise this meant MCSL werent pursuing the claim on 
his behalf.
In February 2020, Mr B called MCSL and asked for an update on the progress of his claims. 
On this call, they explained they werent pursuing the claims against Lender S and B, as 
theyd already advised him. And they explained a claim hadnt been submitted against 
Lender M as the deadline had been missed. Mr B wasnt happy with this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Mr B thought MCSL had failed to progress his claims effectively and because of this, hed 
lost the opportunity to pursue a claim for mis-sold PPI. And he felt hed lost out financially 
because of this. So, he wanted to be compensated for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused.
But MCSL didnt agree. They didnt think Mr B had lost out financially on his claim with 
Lender M. They explained Lender M had dissolved in 2007. And as the point of sale was in 
1991, Mr Bs claim didnt qualify for the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
So, Mr B couldnt reclaim any PPI. Because of this, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Mr B remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought MCSL had 
progressed the claims against Lender B fairly, and that it was Mr Bs own decision to cancel 
their involvement in the claim against Lender S.
And although she recognised MCSL may not have made it reasonably clear to Mr B that 
they were unable to submit a claim against Lender M, she didnt think hed lost out for the 
same reasons MCSL provided in their response to his complaint. So, she didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. 
Mr B initially accepted this outcome on the agreement MCSL provided an apology for their 
failure to advise him correctly. MCSL agreed to do this. But Mr B decided he remained 
unhappy with the outcome and felt he should be compensated for the delays and confusion 
hed suffered. He also didnt think it was fair that MCSL wasnt being made to pay 
compensation as he didnt think this would deter them from providing the same level of 
service to other customers.
Our investigator didnt agree and explained that her outcome remained the same despite Mr 
Bs comments. She explained our role is not to punish the business, but to assess Mr Bs 
complaint individually and provide an outcome that was fair in his individual circumstance. 
As Mr B remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr B. I can understand how 
frustrated Mr B wouldve been when he realised a claim, he thought hed asked MCSL to 
submit had missed the PPI deadline. So, I can understand why he feels as though hes lost 
his opportunity to make a claim and in doing so, lost out financially. But for me to say MCSL 
should compensate Mr B, Id need to be satisfied that they made an error that directly led to 
Mr B not making a claim. And if so, that the claim Mr B wanted to make was a valid one with 
any reasonable prospects of success. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
First, Ive considered the initial claims Mr B asked MCSL to pursue, against Lender S and 
Lender B. I can see MCSL submitted DSARs for both claims. And when Lender S 
responded confirmed there was an account for Mr B to claim for, Ive seen Mr B asked to 
cancel MCSLs authority so he could pursue this himself. MCSL agreed to do so as it was 
within the 14-day cooling off period. So, I cant say theyve done anything wrong by not 
pursuing this any further.
And Ive seen Lender B responded to the DSAR explaining they were unable to locate a PPI 
policy for Mr Bs accounts. This response was received by MCSL after the PPI deadline so I 
wouldnt have expected them to take any further action on the claim. Ive also seen MCSL e-
mailed Mr B on the same to explain Lender Bs response. Mr B himself has admitted he was 
confused about which claims were which around the time MCSL e-mailed him, but Im 
satisfied MCSL contacted him to explain Lender B hadnt been able to trace any policies. So 
again, I cant say theyve done anything wrong when taking no further action.
I then turn to Mr Bs claim against Lender M, which is what I believe to be the crux of Mr Bs 
complaint. Ive seen on 1 August 2019, Mr B wrote to MCSL providing details of a new claim 
he wanted to make against Lender M. Within this, it included information of the account and 
its sale, which was in 1991.As Mr B sent this information to MCSL before the PPI deadline, I can understand why he 
assumed from this point that the claim would be submitted in time. But I can see the 
documents Mr B sent werent received onto MCSLs system until 4 September, after the 
deadline had expired. Im unable to say why there was a period of time between Mr B 
sending the information, and MCSL receiving it on their system. But I am mindful of the 
volumes of enquiries companies such as MCSL were receiving in the immediate moments 
before the deadline expired.
Ive seen MCSL actioned the documents the same day they were received, and returned 
them to Mr B. Im unable to see the covering letter that wouldve been attached to these 
documents on their return. But as Mr B called MCSL in February to ask for an update on the 
position of these claims, I think its reasonable for me to assume, without further evidence, 
that MCSL failed to make it clear that a claim hadnt been submitted. And I can understand 
why Mr B is unhappy with this as he spent time thinking a claim had been made. So, Ive 
considered what impact this had on Mr B.
When Mr B instructed MCSL to submit claims against Lenders S and B, he had to sign a 
LOA that allowed them to do so. I cant see that Mr B signed a LOA for Lender M. And I 
wouldve expected Mr B to understand a LOA was needed for MCSL to continue with that 
claim. From the evidence Ive been provided, I cant see that Mr B contacted MCSL after 
sending the documents to them, before the deadline expired. While I can appreciate he 
thought MCSL had the documents they needed, I dont think its unreasonable to expect Mr B 
to confirm theyd been received and that a claim would be submitted before the deadline. 
And he didnt do so.
As the documents werent received onto MCSLs system until 4 September, they werent 
able to submit a claim on his behalf as the deadline expired on 31 August. And Im unable to 
speculate as to why they werent received before this date. So, I dont think MCSL were able 
to control Mr B missing this deadline for the claim.
And even if they had been, and were able to submit a claim, I dont think its likely that the 
claim wouldve been successful. As MCSL have explained, Mr Bs claim was based on the 
sale of a policy sold in 1991. And as Lender M dissolved in 2007 and are no longer trading, 
Mr B wouldnt have been able to submit his claim to the FSCS for them to consider. So, I 
dont think Mr B is likely to have received a PPI refund. So, I dont think its fair to say he lost 
out financially, nor that MCSL were responsible for this. 
So, while I do think MCSL couldve been clearer with Mr B in September 2019 when they 
returned his documents to him that his claim wouldnt be submitted, I dont think Mr B lost 
out because of this. And while I do appreciate the frustration he wouldve felt when realising 
a claim hadnt been submitted in February 2020, I think he was in the same position he 
wouldve been in had they told him in September 2019. And crucially, I cant say they made 
an error when not submitting the claim. Because of this, I dont think MCSL need to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about MyClaimSolved Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 Josh Haskey
Ombudsman