DRN-3936323
The complaint
Ms R complains about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) who caused damage to her property, 
following a claim under her home emergency policy.  
What happened
Ms R contacted UKI as her sink fell off the wall. It sent an engineer, but he didnt cap the 
pipes correctly.  Ms R contacted UKI again when those pipes began leaking. UKI sent 
another engineer. And again, Ms R said that the second engineer caused a further leak at 
her home. UKI sent a third engineer and again further leaks, and damage was caused. 
Ms R said that due to the poor repairs carried out by the engineers, she suffered from 
damage to her flooring, wallpaper, plastered wall and towels (that she said she had to use to 
mop up the leaks). Ms R also wanted compensation of £450 for the all the trouble and upset 
caused. As well as covering the cost of the damaged flooring, plastered wall, towels and 
wallpaper.
Ms R complained to UKI, given the poor service (she had to chase for updates) and poor 
repairs carried out. UKI offered £150 compensation. But as Ms R felt this wasnt sufficient, 
given the impact, she complained to UKI. In its final response, UKI accepted that there had 
been service failings, but it would not increase its original offer of £150 compensation. So, 
Ms R referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said 
the failures of UKIs engineers led to the damage of Ms Rs flooring. She recommended that 
UKI cover the cost of the towels, replacing and installing the flooring. Pay Ms R £400 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. She said that UKI did not have to replace 
the wallpaper or the stacked flooring as Ms R shouldve mitigated her losses by moving them 
out of the way. 
Both parties did not accept the view. UKI said that Ms R home was being renovated and it 
could be that her contractors disturbed the fittings or Ms R herself. So, it didnt agree that the 
damage was caused by the failure of its engineers. 
Ms R said that it was because of UKIs engineers actions that caused the damage to her 
property, and it wasnt fair that she was going to be penalised for this. She said that there 
was no way that she was able to move the wallpaper and flooring before it became 
damaged, as it was too heavy. So, both parties asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, but for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that Ms R is likely to be disappointed by this, but I hope my 
findings explain why I think this is fair. 
Ms R explained that the contractors that UKI sent, caused damage to her home. The first 
contractor, who had attended to re-attach a sink that had fallen from a wall, didnt re-attach 
the sink and didnt correctly cap off the pipes to the sink. This caused a leak. 
Ms R said that she contacted UKI about this and it sent further contractors to rectify the leak. 
But a further leak happened due to the contractors not correctly positioning a pipe that ran 
from the missing sink and was connected to her washing machine. As a result, Ms R said 
that further damage was caused to her property. 
Ms R said that because she had to mop up the water with towels, her towels became ruined. 
The water also damaged the plaster on the walls and newly laid flooring. Finally, Ms R had a 
box of wallpapers that were also water damaged.  
UKI said that it wasnt its contractors who caused the damage. But it did accept that Ms R 
experienced some poor service and offered her £150 compensation in total. It said that Ms R 
had been having renovation works at her home and it was likely her contractors had caused 
the damage or Ms R herself. 
I asked Ms R what renovations she was having done at the time. She told me that the only 
work that she had planned to do was to replace the flooring downstairs in potentially two 
areas. She had no plans of carrying out renovations nor was she renovating at the time.
Although I accept that Ms R provided video evidence of the damaged flooring and wallpaper, 
I asked her for the invoices for those items as well as the invoice for the cost of the repairs 
she carried out. These were not provided. The reasons for the request of the invoices was to 
provide proof of loss. And in particular, how much Ms R had spent originally. As these were 
never provided, I cant be certain of the cost of the damaged items. 
I am persuaded that the failures of the contractors who attended Ms Rs home, contributed 
to the damage that she experienced. They should have made sure that the pipes and caps 
were either positioned correctly or fitted correctly. And from the evidence, I cant see that this 
was done. And I cant see that UKI has provided any credible account as to how after each 
contractors attendance, the damage became progressively worse. Or that Ms R was 
actually undertaking any renovation works at the time. So, Im persuaded by Ms Rs account 
that she wasnt. 
Given the evidence, Im persuaded that the damage was caused by UKIs engineers and its 
fair and reasonable that it recognise its error. Im pleased to see that UKI offered and 
installed a new toilet for Ms R as a gesture of goodwill, as this wasnt an obligation under the 
policy terms. But I do think that UKI should do more, as the damage, I think, was caused by 
its contractors.  
Having taken all the evidence into consideration, UKI should also pay Ms R costs of 
installing and replacing the flooring, on production of an invoice from Ms R.  In spite of this, I 
dont think its reasonable for UKI to reimburse Ms R cost of the damaged stacked flooring or 
the box of wallpapers. I say this as I do think that there was an obligation on Ms R to have 
mitigated her losses by removing those items when the leaks started, which wasnt done 
here.  
I understand that Ms R said that the boxes were too heavy for her to move, so she was 
unable to mitigate her losses. But the evidence that I have read, in the form of an email sent by Ms R to UKI states: The photo clearly shows the boxes stacked on the wall opposite to 
the sink. Additionally, there is room available to install the toilet, and in any event, I offered to 
move the boxes if required. I was told not to worry. Consequently, I think that Ms R wouldnt 
have offered to move the boxes had she been unable to do so. Further, from the evidence, I 
can see that Ms R was asked whether she had tried to mitigate her losses by turning off the 
water, to which she answered no. 
As to the plastered wall, having reviewed the photos, I do think that the repairs to the wall 
wouldve been needed in any event, as there appeared to be areas of missing plaster, which 
I think was due to the sink falling from the wall. In addition, Ms R said that the wall became 
sodden due to the leak, but again, Ms R had a duty to mitigate her losses and didnt turn off 
the water to stop the leak. So, I wont be asking UKI to cover the costs of the repairs to the 
wall. 
Im pleased to see that UKI offered compensation for the trouble and upset caused, But I 
dont think that the amount is enough. I do think that the impact caused considerable 
distress, upset and worry. I also think that Ms R suffered inconvenience and disruption that 
needed a lot of extra effort to sort out. I have also taken into account Ms Rs vulnerability, 
and I think it would be fair for UKI to increase the amount of compensation to £400. This also 
accounts for the damaged towels and the fact that Ms R had several contractors re-attend 
on multiple occasions. 
I understand that Ms R might be disappointed with the amount of compensation. But Ms R 
was asked to provide me with any further evidence to support her complaint. This evidence 
could have been medical or otherwise to show that she suffered from substantial impact. As 
this wasnt done, Im unable to increase the amount further. 
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, I think UKI was fair to install the toilet. But I 
do think its fair and reasonable for UKI to cover the cost of installing and replacing the 
flooring, on production of an invoice from Ms R. 
I dont think UKI ought to reimburse for the stacked flooring, box of wallpapers or repairs to 
the plastered wall, for the reasons given. But I do think that Ms R suffered significant distress 
and inconvenience caused because of the failures, so UKI should pay her £400 
compensation.  
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct UKI as outlined below.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
UKI Insurance Limited to cover the cost of installing and replacing the damaged flooring, on 
production of an invoice from Ms R. 
UKI Insurance Limited to pay Ms R £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
UKI Insurance Limited must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Ms R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest at 8% 
a year simple on the above amount, from the date Ms R accepts my final decision, until it is 
paid. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman