DRN-3440818
The complaint
Mr G complains that Scottish Widows Limited made an error in the pricing of the fund he
transferred pension monies into, which resulted in a loss of around £25,000.
What happened
Briefly:
On 9 March 2020 Scottish Widows received funds in relation to a pension transfer Mr G
initiated. In line with Mr Gs instructions it was invested into his existing pension fund choice
 a FT All Share index tracker fund  on the same day.
Mr G said that when he received notification from Scottish Widows that his funds would be
invested on 9 March 2020, he was pleased because the stock market had fallen from its
position on 6 March 2020 and hed avoided a 7.7% drop in value. But when Mr G received
confirmation of the transaction from Scottish Widows, he said he was surprised to see that
the price at which the funds had been invested didnt reflect the movements of the FT All
share index. Mr G said that the tracker fund fell 7.7% in price the day after the index had
fallen. He said it appears Scottish Widows didnt update its fund price correctly and it
caught up with the market movements on 10 March 2020  the day his fund was valued
and the date the transfer was said to have completed. Mr G said as a result of this error in
pricing hed lost around £25,000.
In response to Mr Gs complaint Scottish Widows didnt uphold it. In a brief final response
letter it said, in summary, that it couldnt guarantee the performance of Mr Gs plan and that
it didnt provide advice on fund choice.
Mr G then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I issued my provisional decision of March 2022 in which I said I was minded to not uphold 
the complaint - but I wanted to expand on the reasoning of our investigator. I invited both 
parties to let me have anything in response they wanted me to consider. 
Scottish Widows said it had nothing further to add.
Mr G didnt reply to my provisional decision.
While Im mindful that Mr G hasnt replied, Im satisfied my provisional decision was sent and 
Ive no reason to believe Mr G didnt received it  we emailed it to him and we also reminded 
him of the deadline for a response. 
So if he wanted to respond I wouldve expected to have heard from him by now. I therefore 
think it is safe for me to carry on and issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint and my reasons are set out below.
Firstly, and for the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied that Scottish Widows invested his 
pension monies without delay on the date they were received  namely 9 March 2020. So 
theres nothing for me to consider here.
It appears to me that the crux of Mr Gs complaint is actually about how Scottish Widows FT
All Share index tracker fund pricing works. I say this because Mr G believes Scottish Widows
made an error  whether a system error or human error  in the price of the fund on 9 March
2020 when it applied Mr Gs pension transfer funds. Mr G says that the stock market fell over
the course of Monday 9 March from its position on the last business day  Friday 6 March 
but this wasnt accurately reflected in the price Scottish Widows used. It wasnt until the
following day  10 March 2020  when the overall fund was valued that the price reflected
the FT All share index fall. Mr G believes Scottish Widows delayed the drop in the price and
it caught up a day later.
In my view this isnt something which requires me looking at or explaining fund tracking error 
or about the way the fund is regulated - I think Mr Gs complaint can be answered by 
explaining how Mr Gs particular fund pricing works.
It is not disputed that Mr Gs pension monies were invested on 9 March 2020 the day they
were received, which was a Monday. Scottish Widows determine the price of the FT All
Share index fund at 8am daily on working days. And this is set out in the funds key investor
information document (readily available on-line.) This means that regardless of what point
during the day on Monday 9 March 2020 Scottish Widows invested Mr Gs monies, the price
of the fund had been set at 8am that morning.
Because of the trading times of the UK stock market, a price determined at 8am on the next
working day effectively equates to the closing level of the particular market or index the
previous working day. So in Mr Gs case, the price of the FT All Share index tracker fund on
Monday 9 March 2020 was effectively based on the closing level of the FT All share index on
the previous working day i.e. Friday 6 March 2020.
So although as Mr G says the FT All share index fell during the course of Monday 9 March
2020, this wouldnt be immediately reflected in the unit price of the fund.
The fund pricing doesnt operate as I think Mr G believes  I think he believes the unit price
constantly moves in line with the index it is tracking at any given point during the working day
i.e. it is dynamic such that an investment in the fund at different times in a working day could
yield different prices and so different overall valuations. But this is not the case here  it isnt
how this particular fund pricing operates. And it is not typical of how, in my experience, most
funds of this nature operate.
The price of the FT All Share index fund was set again at 8am on the next working day  10
March 2020. And it was at this point that the fund price and Mr Gs overall pension fund
value reflected the fall in the value of the index during Monday 9 March 2020.
So it is not the case that Scottish Widows made an error in the price it used when it invested
Mr Gs transferred pension monies. Im satisfied Scottish Widows used the fund unit price,
which applied on 9 March 2020 in line with the pricing terms of the fund. This means that the loss Mr G refers to, is in my view simply down to unfortunate market 
timing and not because Scottish Widows made an error or acted unfairly or unreasonably.
So for these reasons I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint or make any award in his favour.
 
My final decision
For the reasons above Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman