DRN-3648274
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (trading as NatWest) is holding him 
liable for a loan and transactions which he says he was coerced to take out/make.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, NatWest is holding Mr C liable for a £15,000 loan which was taken out in his name.  
Mr C argues that whilst he accepts taking out the loan, he should not be held liable for it as 
he took it out under duress.  That is, a group of unscrupulous people he fell in with made him 
take out the loan under the threat of, amongst other things, violence.  Mr C also argues that 
he should not be held liable for several transactions  utilising the loan funds after they were 
credited to his account  for the aforementioned reasons.  Mr C has also asked that his 
mental health issues be taken into account when considering this matter.
Mr C brought the above to NatWests attention.  It conducted an investigation and decided to 
hold Mr C liable for the loan and transactions which flowed from it.  Unhappy with this, Mr C 
raised a complaint and referred it to our Service,
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mr C disagreed 
with the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
I do acknowledge Mr Cs submissions about his mental health; and that he was coerced into 
taking out the loan and making the disputed transactions.  However, Mr Cs submissions 
raise some issues I need to address.
I have not seen any satisfactory evidence to support what Mr C says led him to taking out 
the loan.  With cases such as Mr Cs, testimony is not sufficient.  I have not been provided 
with any direct evidence  for example, correspondence between Mr C and any third parties 
 supporting the coercion alleged.  Mr C mentioned to our investigator that messages took 
place between the third parties and himself, but he no longer has them.  Mr C also told our 
investigator that although he contacted Action Fraud  he has never lodged anything formal 
with the police.  This is something I would expect considering the circumstances Mr C has 
described.
Without credible evidence, I am unable to safely conclude that Mr C did not consent to the 
loan himself without being coerced to do so. 
Even if I were able to take Mr Cs version of events at face value, I would find it difficult to 
direct NatWest to write off the loan.  I say this because, put simply, I have not seen any 
satisfactory evidence to suggest NatWest was aware, at the time, of the circumstances Mr C 
has described.  Therefore, it would not be fair of me to say the loan should not stand 
because of circumstances NatWest had no knowledge of.
One has enormous sympathy for Mr Cs personal circumstances  particularly the mental 
health issues he has described.  However, ultimately, the evidence I have before me is a 
loan application which Mr C accepts making; the funds of which were utilised from Mr Cs 
account.  He has provided testimony about circumstances which he says led to him taking 
out the loan and making the disputed transactions.  However, there is neither any 
satisfactory evidence to support Mr Cs testimony, nor any evidence to suggest NatWest was 
aware of what Mr C says happened during the relevant period.  Lastly, I take no issue with 
the affordability of the loan; information for which Mr C provided himself.
Taking all the above points together, I will not be asking NatWest to do anything further in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman