DRN-2312039
The complaint
Miss T complains that she was told by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) that travel and mobile 
phone insurance that came with her packaged bank accounts didnt cover her in the way she 
had expected.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my findings are as follows.
Our adjudicator looked at all aspects of the packaged bank accounts sales to Miss T that 
Lloyds didnt uphold. Ive looked at all the same evidence and concluded that Lloyds didnt 
do anything wrong in those sales for the same reasons the adjudicator gave.
In response to our adjudicators view, Miss T clarified that her complaint is only about the 
sale of the Platinum account she took out in August 2011. She says the terms and 
conditions changed and she was recently declined a claim on the mobile phone insurance 
and told that the travel insurance didnt cover her son.
As explained by Lloyds in its final response to Miss T, changes to the Platinum terms and 
conditions were communicated at various times to her, most notably a substantial revision in 
February 2016. Lloyds has provided evidence that these were sent to Miss Ts address on 
its records and I think its more likely than not that she received them.
I can see that as far as Miss Ts claim on the mobile phone insurance is concerned, Lloyds 
has said it will look at it again if she can provide evidence of ownership of the phone. If Miss 
T provides this to Lloyds and her claim is turned down, and she is unable to resolve the 
issue with Lloyds, this service could look at that again as a separate complaint.
Regarding her son and the travel insurance, in my view the terms and conditions are clear 
about family cover and I think he is covered provided he meets the age and circumstance 
requirements. Again, if Miss T makes a claim on the insurance and this is declined, and she 
cannot resolve it with Lloyds, she could bring that as a separate complaint to this service.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman