DRN-2497051
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
a used car was supplied to Mr R under a conditional sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer Finance that he electronically signed in February 2019;
Santander Consumer Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for 
ensuring that it was of satisfactory quality at that time - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage 
of the car and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Mr R was less than a year old, had been driven for 
13,000 miles and had a price of £26,863.07;
Mr R complained to the dealer about some issues with the car  including some 
paintwork issues - and it arranged for them to be repaired  and Mr R and the dealer 
signed a settlement agreement in June 2019 which said that it was  in full and final 
settlement of all claims that [Mr R] may have against [the dealer] both now and in the 
future in relation to all matters in relation to the Vehicle; 
Mr R says that he then noticed some other issues with the cars paintwork and he 
arranged for the cars paintwork to be inspected by a paint and body specialist in 
June 2019 which said that:
The N/S Front Wing appears to have been filled without removal of the front 
bumper, therefor the filler has bridged the gap between the bumper and the 
wing. There are also visible pin holes in the filler that highlight the repair. The 
Front Bumper has been repaired and since cracked in the same area, there is 
also a poor paint finish. The O/S Bodyside has had some dent repairs that 
required filling. Over time these repairs are now visible as they have sunk. 
There is also a poor finish, for example dryness in the clear coat and flatting 
marks where it has been machine polished;
Mr R complained to Santander Consumer Finance about the paintwork issues but 
wasnt satisfied with its response so he complained to this service;
our investigator was satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and she 
thought that Santander Consumer Finance should arrange the repair at no further 
cost to Mr R within a reasonable timeframe and arrange a report to confirm it had 
been done to a satisfactory standard  and that it should compensate him with £100 
for the distress and inconvenience that hed been caused (and she said that if a 
satisfactory finish couldnt be achieved, Mr R should be able to reject the car);
Santander Consumer Finance hasnt responded to our investigators 
recommendations;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the issues with the paintwork were present 
when the car was supplied to Mr R and that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at that 
time because of those issues;
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Santander 
Consumer Finance to arrange and pay for the required repairs to be made to the 
cars paintwork  and Im not persuaded that the settlement agreement ends its 
liability to Mr R for issues with the car; and
these events have caused Mr R some distress and inconvenience  I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to pay him £100 to 
compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
I would expect a repair of the paintwork to properly deal with the issues identified in the 
specialists report but, if the repair doesnt achieve that to Mr Rs satisfaction, he should 
complain to Santander Consumer Finance and then, if hes not satisfied with its response, 
he may be able to make another complaint to this service.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for  Santander Consumer 
Finance to arrange and pay for the issues with the cars paintwork identified in the 
specialists report to be repaired. I also find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay 
him £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and I order Santander Consumer (UK) plc, 
trading as Santander Consumer Finance, to:
1. Arrange and pay for the issues with the cars paintwork identified in the specialists 
report to be repaired.
2. Pay £100 to Mr R to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman