DRN-1672176
The complaint
Ms L complains Lloyds Bank Plc has unfairly dealt with her Section 75 claim.
What happened
On 4 August 2018, Ms L booked some flights via an online travel agency, Ill call F using 
her Lloyds credit card. The return flights cost a total of £554.42.
On 11 January 2019, F contacted Ms L to advise her that the flight schedule had been 
amended by the airline. As the time was not convenient for Ms L, she requested to change 
the flight or to cancel it in order to obtain a full refund.
Ms L says she was passed between F and the airline with neither party taking responsibility 
for a decision. Ultimately Ms L cancelled the flights and requested a full refund.
On 4 May 2019, Ms L raised a chargeback with Lloyds. It credited Ms Ls account with 
£554.42. It explained the merchant then has 45 days to challenge this, but, they
must provide enough evidence stating why they believe this a genuine transaction. If
the 45 days lapse and no further contact from the merchant, then the credit will become
permanent.
The merchant did challenge the chargeback and provided evidence of this to Lloyds and 
said they had provided Ms L with a refund of £222. Lloyds has acknowledged that at this 
point, they should have raised a partial chargeback for the remaining £332.42. But they 
didnt do it until 29 July 2019. Ms L said she believed she was entitled to a refund of the full 
amount, but Lloyds explained the merchant had provided sufficient evidence that only a 
cancellation amount of £222 was payable. Lloyds accepted it had fallen short of its expected 
service standards and paid Ms L £50 compensation for the inconvenience.
Dissatisfied Ms L brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Ms L. He found that Lloyds had correctly followed the 
chargeback process. He looked at the terms and conditions of the online travel agency and 
agreed Ms L was only entitled to a cancellation fee of £222. He acknowledged Lloyds had 
provided poor service but felt £50 was fair and reasonable in recognition of this and so he 
didnt ask Lloyds to do anything further.
Ms L disagreed. She still feels she is entitled to a full refund and quoted the flight 
cancellation clause from her contract with F. She asks for an ombudsman review
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information from all parties afresh. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator.
I appreciate Ms L has waited some time for a decision. I have had to clarify some of the 
information from the provider and Lloyds and this has taken a while, so I thank Ms L for her 
patience.
I can understand Ms Ls frustration in being passed between the online travel agency and 
the airline, with neither party providing a satisfactory response but I can only consider the 
complaint Ms L has brought against Lloyds. And what Ive got to decide is whether Lloyds 
did anything wrong which has resulted in this situation. Im afraid, having considered 
everything in this case; Im not persuaded this is a case I can fairly and reasonably uphold.
A chargeback is when a consumer questions a transaction and asks the card issuer to 
reverse it. The main requirement in order to get money back via chargeback is to show that 
theres been a breach of contract. Theres no automatic right to a chargeback and no 
obligation on a bank to raise a chargeback if it doesnt think it will be successful.
In this case Lloyds did apply a temporary credit to Ms Ls credit card for the full amount and 
disputed the transaction with the merchant, F. It challenged the decision and provided 
evidence to show Ms L had cancelled the flights and was only entitled to a refund of £222, 
this being a refund of the taxes payable for the cancelled flights.
Lloyds then re-debited Ms Ls account on 29 July 2019 with £332.42.
Ive looked closely at the booking terms and conditions. I appreciate Ms L feels the terms 
and conditions give rise to a full refund, but I disagree. The terms and conditions she has 
quoted refers to the cancellation of the flight by the airline, not the passenger. I understand 
Ms L cancelled the flights reluctantly, rather than be a no show but as she did cancel them, 
the terms and conditions only give rise to a partial refund for taxes due.
On that basis, Lloyds were not able to agree a breach of contract had occurred but as the 
merchant hadnt provided the refund due it only re-debited the difference of £332.42. It 
acknowledged it d provided poor service and there had been a delay and so offered £50 in 
recognition of this.
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded there has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. I find the redress Lloyds have offered in the circumstances to be fair and 
reasonable.
I appreciate Ms L will be disappointed but Im not able to uphold her complaint and so I wont 
be asking Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman