DRN-2720962
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car acquired with finance from Oodle Financial Services Limited 
trading as Oodle Car Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.   
What happened
In August 2019 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Oodle.
Mr H says that in May 2020 the engine cut out whilst he was driving. This happened again 
three days later. A motor rescue organisation attended, and the car was recovered to a local 
garage.
The local garage carried out a diagnostic test which showed multiple fault codes. On driving 
home from the garage, Mr H broke down again and the car was returned to the garage. 
The garage wasnt able to identify what was causing the loss of power, so it advised Mr H to 
take the car to a specialist. The specialist took the fuel system apart and found swarf in it. It 
cleared the swarf and got the car running but warned Mr H that the swarf could build back up 
again and that it suspected theta the car had been mis-fuelled in the past.
Mr H contacted Oodle to report his concerns. In response, Oodle said that because the issue 
had ben raised more than six months after the point of supply, it was up to Mr H to provide 
evidence that the issue was present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr H says he contacted an independent engineer, who advised him that there was nothing 
they could say other than what he already knew and recommended that a fuel specialist look 
at the car instead. Mr H says that the fuel specialist was unable to find a fault but that upon 
checking records, the garage found that the car had previously had fuel issues which had 
been repaired. Mr H provided this information to Oodle but it didnt uphold his complaint on 
the basis that there wasnt enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. Our investigator upheld 
the complaint. He said he was satisfied that there was a fault with the car. he also said that 
because there was expert evidence linking misfuelling to the issues which had occurred in 
December 2017, he was of the view that there was an underlying issue with the fuel system 
when the car was supplied which made it of unsatisfactory quality. The investigator said that 
because Mr H had already provided Oodle with an opportunity to repair the car, and because 
Oodle didnt act on this opportunity, Mr H should be able to reject the car.
Oodle didnt agree. It acknowledged that Mr H had provided evidence that the car had an 
issue with the fuel rail in December 2017 but said there was no evidence that this issue was 
linked to the current issue of swarf in the fuel system. Oodle said the issues with the fuel rail 
were reported when the car had mileage of 37,322 and the current issue with swarf was 
reported when the car had mileage of 58,397. Oodle said it didnt think it wouldnt have taken 
22,075 miles for the issue to resurface, and that there wasnt enough evidence to link the 
two issues. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Oodle supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. Satisfactory quality includes fitness for purpose, 
safety and durability.
I would expect a second hand car  such as that supplied to Mr H  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require repairs more often than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold 
this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the car had an inherent fault, as opposed to 
a fault which occurred due to wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first six months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to 
the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. 
After six months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the 
fault was present or developing at the point of supply. 
An independent engineers report can help to decide whether a fault was present at the pint 
of supply. There isnt an independent engineers report in this case, but I have seen 
correspondence from a main dealer, in which they state they have seen records of the car 
showing that it had loss of power issues resulting in a fuel rail system replacement in 
December 2017. The technician who inspected the car was of the opinion that the car had 
been mis-fuelled in the past and that given the history of the car, the mis-fuel was likely to 
have been prior to December 2017.
I appreciate that this isnt an independent report. However, Im satisfied that it is expert 
opinion and as such, I have given it due evidential weight.
The technician hasnt explicitly said that the current fault would have been present or 
developing at the point of supply. But he has clearly expressed a view that the current issue 
with the swarf is likely to be related to a misfuelling. Hes also said that he thinks the 
misfuelling occurred prior to December 2017 (which was prior to the date when the car was 
acquired by Mr H).
Oodle has said that there isnt enough evidence to link the current fault to the issues which 
occurred in December 2017. It has also said that if the issues were linked, the current issue 
wouldve occurred sooner.
In relation to the first point, I disagree with Oodle. I think the view of the technician is 
sufficient to persuade me, on the balance of probability, that the two issue are linked. In 
relation to the second point about the mileage covered since the first issue, I appreciate that 
the car has covered around 22,000 miles since December 2017, and around 9000 miles 
since Mr H acquired the car and experienced the fault.
Looking at the available information, and giving due weight to the technicians expert 
opinion, I think its more likely than not that there was a fault with the fuel system which, 
based on the technicians opinion, can be linked to the previous issue. The repair carried out 
in December 2017 appears to have temporarily fixed the issue, but it has resurfaced. The mileage which the car has covered since December 2017 wasnt something which caused 
the technician to question whether the two issues were linked.
Taking everything into account, Im persuaded that there was a fault with the car at the point  
of supply which made the car of unsatisfactory quality.   
Putting things right
Because the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, I think Oodle need to 
take steps to put things right. Based on what Ive seen, Mr H has already asked Oodle to 
repair the car but it wasnt prepared to do so, so I son think it should be given a further 
opportunity now. In the circumstances Im of the view that Mr H should be able to reject the 
car.
When Mr H acquired the car, Oodle settled his previous finance agreement. This amount 
(£2,719.46) should be deducted from any payments due to Mr H.
Mr H hasnt been able to use the car since the fault occurred in May 2020. Prior to this, Mr H 
had full use of the car. Taking this into account, I think Oodle should refund all of the 
payments Mr H has made since May 2020.
Its clear that Mr H has been caused significant inconvenience as a result of having been 
supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hes had to take the car to various 
garages and arrange alternative transport for himself. I think Oodle should compensate Mr H 
for the trouble and upset caused.
I can see that Mr H has incurred costs in trying to get the car repaired. This includes the cost 
of recovering the car to the garage when it first broke down, as well as the costs of the 
specialist garage. Mr H also incurred engineers costs. Im satisfied that all of the costs are 
directly related to the fault which was present at the point of supply. These costs should be 
reimbursed by Oodle.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr H
Refund the £100 advance payment paid by Mr H plus 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund all of the monthly payments made by Mr H since March 2020 plus 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Reimburse Mr H £1,162.81 for costs incurred (upon proof of payment) plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay Mr H compensation of £200 for trouble and upset
Deduct £2,719.46 from the payments due to Mr H to account for the finance settledUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman