DRN-2043892
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out the policy in 1996 to cover their monthly mortgage repayments if 
either of them couldnt work due to disablement or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
The sale took place many years ago, so its not surprising that there are gaps in the 
information from the time thats still available. Ive considered the remaining evidence, 
including what Mr and Mrs H initially said about being led to believe taking PPI was a 
condition of the mortgage application.
In the absence of any evidence to support what Mr and Mrs H have said, I cant fairly say PPI 
was presented as they say it was. I think its as likely there was a conversation about PPI, 
and they were made aware it was optional. Theres nothing to show they didnt choose to 
take it. Ive thought about the letter they received from the PPI underwriter following their 
cancellation of the policy in 2006 but it doesnt change my view. 
Overall, I dont uphold the complaint on these grounds.
Lloyds has assessed the complaint as though it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. So, 
as well as having to give them enough information for them to make an informed choice 
about taking it, Lloyds should have looked in to whether it was right for Mr and Mrs H. I dont 
know what steps Lloyds took but I think a recommendation to take the PPI was suitable for 
them in any case.
I say that because, from what Mr and Mrs H have told us about their circumstances in 1996, 
it appears they were eligible for the PPI and that it was affordable for them. And I cant, for 
instance, see that theyd have been significantly affected by the main exclusions to, or limits 
on, the cover. Although Mr S became self-employed, it seems that didnt happen until several 
years after the sale took place. In any case, I cant see that his change in employment status 
made it any more difficult for him to claim on the policy.
Mr and Mrs H say they were entitled to enhanced sick pay and had savings they could have 
relied on if they were off work. But the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months per 
claim, on top of any other income they received, and covered them for unemployment too. 
Plus, it potentially allowed them to retain their savings or put them to another use while they 
were off work, such as covering their other living costs. 
Not least because Mr and Mrs Hs borrowing was secured against their home, I think the PPI 
provided them with useful extra protection.
Ive thought about the critical illness cover Mr and Mrs H say they held. But I dont think this 
meant the PPI was unsuitable for them as it paid a regular benefit for disability or 
unemployment, whereas the critical illness cover would have paid a lump sum benefit on 
diagnosis of a specified illness. So, the insurances worked in different ways  and the same 
can be said of the other insurance policies they say they already held.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out everything it should have about the PPI. But I dont find 
that Mr and Mrs H lost out because of any failings. I say that because, for the same reasons I 
think the PPI was suitable and affordable for them, I dont think better information would have 
stopped Mr and Mrs H from buying it. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs H lost out because of how Lloyds 
sold them the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman