DRN-3299536
The complaint
Ms T says Lendable Ltd irresponsibly lent to her. She says that she was using short term 
and high cost credit to pay for other lending. She says that Lendable didnt check if she was 
in difficulty. If it had done she thinks that it wouldnt have lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about one loan Lendable provided to Ms T on 17 October 2020. Ms T 
borrowed £6,000. She was due to make 59 repayments of £226.25 and one of £68.88. This 
meant she would repay a total of £12,965.13. 
Ms T made five repayments to the loan and then she fully repaid it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint. She thought that the checks Lendable made 
were reasonable, and these showed that the loan was likely to be affordable. 
Ms T disagreed. Her representative didnt provide any further detail about her 
circumstances, but it did say that the Financial Ombudsman had upheld a similar complaint 
of Ms Ts
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Ts complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Ms T would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way and without experiencing 
significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms T wouldve been able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way?
2. Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Lendable to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Ts ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Lendable had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Ms T. In 
practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Ms T undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms T. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ts complaint. Whilst I note Ms Ts representative has 
said that she has received a positive outcome on another complaint, this doesnt mean that 
this complaint should be upheld. 
Lendable has provided evidence to show that before lending loans it asked Ms T about her 
income and expenditure and it verified some of this using information held at a credit 
reference agency. It says it also looked at some of her bank statements. 
Ive seen a record of the information Lendable provided when Ms T completed her loan 
application. Ms T said she had a monthly income of £2,130 and Lendable verified this using 
her bank statements and a credit reference agency. And that this had been consistent over 
the previous year.  
Lendable has said that it found out that Ms T had debts of around £51,000. This was 
comprised of £33,000 from a mortgage. £14,000 from unsecured loans and £4,000 from 
store and credit cards. She wasnt behind on any of her other credit repayments. 
The purpose of this loan was recorded as being debt consolidation. From the information it 
had Lendable was able to determine that she could reduce her existing debt repayments by 
£139 a month. Essentially Lendable thought it was fair to lend on the basis that the proportion of the new loan repayments to her income was reasonable, and she could reduce 
her overall debt repayments by taking the loan. 
Having considered everything Ive been provided; I dont think this was unreasonable. Ms Ts 
bank statements show that she did have some other debts, and she used her overdraft at 
times. But I would expect to see some signs of other credit use, and even some repayment 
problems, as this lender lends to consumers with adverse credit. 
Added to this I havent seen any signs of significant difficulty, and Ms T seemed to be able to 
manage her existing lending when Lendable lent to her. So, I think the checks Lendable did 
were reasonable and proportionate. Those checks suggest the loan was affordable and 
Ms T could sustain the repayments over the term.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Lendable did for this loan were 
proportionate. And I think its decision to approve the loan was reasonable.
Ive also thought about whether Lendable acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Ms Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman