DRN-4198958
The complaint
Mr G and Miss L complain that their broker, Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd trading 
as PRIMIS Mortgage Network (PRIMIS) didnt tell them they needed to make a fresh 
mortgage application for a new property, causing delays and higher monthly costs.
What happened
Mr G and Miss L wanted to purchase a home, and they asked PRIMIS for help with their
mortgage. PRIMIS secured a decision in principle (DIP), and then a mortgage offer for
them, on the first house they tried to buy (Property 1). The mortgage offer had a fixed
interest rate period of 60 months, at 1.59%.
Mr G and Miss L changed their minds about Property 1 after seeing the survey report, and
withdrew their offer to buy. Their solicitor told their lender they werent going ahead with this
purchase, the lender then confirmed this with the broker, and their mortgage application was
withdrawn.
Mr G and Miss L say they werent told this at the time. Theyd understood the mortgage offer
could be transferred, or ported, to a different property. They kept looking, and it was only
some days after they found another house (Property 2), that they discovered they would
need to apply again.
Mr G and Miss L said if theyd been told earlier that their first mortgage offer had been
entirely closed down, they would have obtained a new DIP promptly, and secured the best
rate they could get at the time. They said they ended up paying much more for their
mortgage because of the delay  around £300 per month more than they were expecting
under the first offer they received. They wanted PRIMIS to pay the difference between what
theyre paying now, and what they expected to pay under the rate quoted on their first offer.
Mr G and Miss L have offered the following timeline of events 
19 April 2022  Withdrawal of Offer to Buy on Property 1.
13 May 2022  Offer on Property 2. Mr G and Miss L have shown us an email from 
their brokerage sent on this date, containing the original DIP to support their offer on 
Property 2.
14 May 2022 Verbal confirmation that offer on Property 2 had been accepted.
17 May 2022  Written confirmation that offer on Property 2 was accepted.
9 June 2022  Broker informs Mr G and Miss L that their first mortgage offer has 
been closed down. They said their first lender confirmed it was the brokers 
responsibility to tell them this.
27 July 2022  Mortgage Offer for Property 2 from second lender confirmed at 2.7%

When our service asked PRIMIS about this case, it said it didnt think it had done anything
wrong. It said the documents it gave Mr G and Miss L for their first mortgage application
made clear that the DIP hadnt reserved any particular interest rate for them, and that it
would always have expired after 12 May. An offer was then made, but withdrawn once Mr G
and Miss L said they were no longer buying Property 1. PRIMIS said the first application did
have to be cancelled at that point. Mr G and Miss L got back in touch once theyd found a
new property, and were told a new application would need to be done.
PRIMIS said it was sorry its broker hadnt told Mr G and Miss L that their application was
cancelled, but he had assumed their solicitor would have told them this. And PRIMIS said
the outcome would have been the same, even if the broker had told Mr G and Miss L that
their application was cancelled. He wouldnt have made a fresh application until they had
found a new property.
PRIMIS complaint response letter to Mr G and Miss L said that they would always have
needed to complete a new application once they pulled out of the purchase of Property 1. It
also said a DIP from this lender usually holds a rate for 90 days, although that isnt set out
on the DIP itself. But the lender itself has since shown us its policy, which says that if a DIP
is followed by an offer, and that offer doesnt go ahead, then a completely new application is
needed for any purchase after this. So the lender confirms that Mr G and Miss L would
always have had to reapply, in their circumstances.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part. She said Mr G and Miss L
could never have ported their mortgage, as theyd understood, because porting only applies
when someones already got a mortgage in place, and is moving that existing mortgage to a
second or subsequent home.
Our investigator also said Mr G and Miss Ls first mortgage offer always had to be cancelled,
because that lender wont transfer an offer to a new property. So our investigator said Mr G
and Miss L would always have had to apply again, and it wasnt the brokers fault that
interest rates had risen during this time. But she did think the broker ought to have informed
Mr G and Miss L that their first mortgage application couldnt be transferred, and a new
application would be needed. Because the broker didnt do that, our investigator said shed
ask PRIMIS to pay Mr G and Miss L £125 in compensation.
PRIMIS disagreed. It said the first mortgage offer could never have been ported, and its
broker didnt tell Mr G and Miss L it could. But our investigator said this wasnt made clear in
the key facts of their mortgage illustration. PRIMIS should have helped Mr G and Miss L.
That included telling them their offer was cancelled.
PRIMIS said the cancellation wasnt its responsibility, and provided evidence that the
mortgage offer was cancelled by the lender. It also showed this was done at the instigation
of Mr G and Miss Ls solicitors, who told their lender this purchase wasnt going ahead.
PRIMIS said the broker only confirmed to the lender, when it asked, that the purchase of
Property 1 wasnt going ahead. PRIMIS didnt think it was its responsibly to tell Mr G and
Miss L that their application had been closed down, and it didnt think that theyd been given
anything to give them the impression it was still open.
PRIMIS also produced evidence from the broker working with Mr G and Miss L, to say he 
wouldnt have sought to obtain a new DIP when they pulled out of the first purchase. He 
didnt know they were still looking, and said even if he had, he would want to wait until they 
had found somewhere else to buy. He wouldnt want to adversely affect their credit score by
submitting a series of applications. The broker said once he knew Mr G and Miss L had
found a new property, he set up a meeting to look into the best available offer for them at the
time. Thats when he realised they still expected to get the rate they were previously offered.
PRIMIS wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to me for a
final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
There appears to have been some confusion in this case, with references to mortgage 
offers and mortgage decisions in principle (DIP) not always being clearly separated. Ill 
set out my understanding of the documents involved in this case here.
Mr G and Miss L got a mortgage illustration from PRIMIS. That was dated 10 February 
2022, and it sets out the interest rate that PRIMIS then thought Mr G and Miss L may be 
able to get. The illustration says its only valid on the day it is made, it may change after 
this.
Mr G and Miss L then applied for a DIP through PRIMIS. A DIP is indicative of what a 
lender might allow them to borrow. Its not a commitment to lending, which will always 
depend on a formal application.
The DIP they received is dated 24 February 2022. It is clear on its face that it is valid 
until 12 May 2022. It says how much this lender thought Mr G and Miss L could borrow, 
but it doesnt commit this lender to offering any particular interest rate.
Mr G and Miss L then made their formal mortgage application to this lender. They 
received a mortgage offer, dated 23 March 2022. This offer did set out how much 
interest they would pay, but this offer was made specifically in relation to Property 1.
Mr G and Miss L decided not to proceed with the purchase of Property 1. Their 
mortgage offer was cancelled at this point.
I dont think that there was a mistake, in cancelling down the first mortgage offer that Mr 
G and Miss L received. That offer was made in respect of a particular property, and 
when Mr G and Miss L decided not to go ahead with that purchase, I think it ought to 
have been clear that their offer would no longer be valid.
But there was clearly a misunderstanding at this point, because Mr G and Miss L had 
understood they could carry forward the interest rate from this offer, to a different 
property.
I dont think that was ever the case. This lender has shown us its policies, which do 
make clear that if borrowers arent going ahead with a particular purchase, there will 
need to be a new application, and this will need to be reserved from the rates available 
at the time of reapplication. So I think that is the effect of Mr G and Miss Ls decision not 
to proceed with a mortgage, that they would always have needed to start a new 
application.
That means I dont think PRIMIS did anything which meant Mr G and Miss L lost the rate 
in the first offer. The rate there was unfortunately lost to them when they decided not to 
buy Property 1. And that means it wouldnt be fair for me to ask PRIMIS to pay 
compensation on the basis of the rate set out in that offer.
Now I need to think about what happened after this offer was withdrawn. Mr G and Miss 
L say that if theyd realised they couldnt transfer the rate on their previous offer to a new
property, they would have reapplied promptly, and secured the best rate available at the
time. But they say they were actively misled about this by their broker.PRIMIS broker clearly hasnt accepted that. He says he only realised when he started 
to discuss a new property purchase with Mr G and Miss L, in early June, that they 
thought they could still have the rate set out in their old offer.
So now I need to think about how this misunderstanding may have happened.
There doesnt appear to me to be anything misleading in the documents Mr G and Miss 
L were sent. In particular, the DIP doesnt suggest it had reserved any rate, and their 
offer was specific to their property. And theres nothing to show any mistaken or 
incorrect advice in the emails they have shared with us.
Mr G and Miss L say they were told they could transfer their rate by their broker. So I 
have to decide if its more likely than not that the couple were misled in conversation 
with their broker.
On this, I think its relevant that Mr G and Miss L have consistently referred to 
transferring the rate from their previous offer to their new purchase as porting. But ,as 
our investigator explained, porting only applies when someones already bought one 
property, is paying off their mortgage, and then decides to buy a different home. It didnt 
apply in Mr G and Miss Ls circumstances.
I think porting was explained on the mortgage offer for Property 1. This concept is also
central to how mortgages work, and Id expect it to be very familiar to anyone working in 
this area. So I dont think its likely that their broker would have used this term in the 
wrong context.
Mr G and Miss L also said that once their broker realised they couldnt carry forward the 
rate on their old mortgage offer, he contacted them on a non-working day, to put a new
application in place. They said this demonstrated PRIMIS acknowledgement of its error.
The email Ive seen does acknowledge that the previous offer is no longer valid, but
unfortunately that doesnt confirm that a misunderstanding about the rate still being 
available originated with the broker. Theres nothing to show me that hed previously 
indicated the old rate remained valid. I appreciate that the broker referred to their new 
application as urgent, and discussed this with them on what was usually a non-working 
day, but there are a number of other possible explanations for this. I dont think I can 
assume from this, that the misunderstanding at the centre of this complaint, was the 
brokers fault.
Considering all the evidence we have, and on balance, I havent been able to say that 
its more likely than not that any misunderstanding about transferring the old rate to a 
new mortgage application was the brokers fault.
But our investigator noted that Mr G and Miss L were first time buyers. She thought that 
their broker could have done more to support them in their purchase, and to explain 
things to them. Although I havent been able to say that the misunderstanding here was 
the brokers fault, I do think that there were points where additional support or some 
explanation for Mr G and Miss L would have avoided the problems that occurred.
So, if the broker had contacted Mr G and Miss L around the time their mortgage 
application was withdrawn, and explained the impact of this, and this particular lenders 
policies, I think that would have avoided the problem. Or, if when talking to the couple 
about buy to let properties in early May, hed checked whether they were still intending 
to buy a home, and had explained that a new application would be needed, then that 
would also have avoided the problem. Also, it would perhaps have assisted, when forwarding the DIP to Mr G and Miss L, to note that this DIP had just expired. I think 
missing all of these opportunities does mean that PRIMIS has provided poor service to 
Mr G and Miss L, and for that reason I agree with our investigator, that PRIMIS should 
pay £125 in compensation to them now.
I know that Mr G and Miss L will be disappointed, but on the evidence Ive seen to date, 
I dont think PRIMIS has to do more than that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Only Mr G and Miss L replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G and Miss L said they still considered this decision unjust, but they would accept it. Im 
sorry that they are disappointed, but I still think, having reviewed the evidence, that this 
decision is fair, based on what I think is most likely to have happened in this case.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage 
Network must pay Mr G and Miss L £125 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman