DRN-3444862
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about Evolution Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
made on their buildings warranty policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have a new build latent defects insurance policy underwritten by Evolution 
which covers the home they bought in February 2018.
The background to this case is well known to both parties, so I wont go into fine detail here 
on how the current situation has arisen.
In short, in 2019, Mr and Mrs L made a claim to Evolution relating to number of defects with 
the property, including problems with the gutters, windows, doors and soil and vent pipes.
The claim was made within the first two years of the warranty. According to the terms and 
conditions, this meant Mr and Mrs L had to first raise the issues with the developer who built 
the property. Evolution would meet the cost of any repair work which was covered by the 
policy only after the developer had been given a chance to rectify the defects.
Mr and Mrs L approached the developer listed in the warranty documents they had. That 
company said the work had actually been done by another company  with a very similar 
name and the same Director  which was now insolvent. The policy terms say Evolution will 
cover repair costs if the developer is insolvent.
When Mr and Mrs L went back to Evolution to ask them to now consider the claim, Evolution 
had concerns that the developer had in fact been neither of the similarly-named companies, 
but an entirely different party altogether. 
The original application for the warranty listed as the developer the individual from whom 
Mr L and Mrs L bought the property in 2018. This contradicted other documents, including 
the certificate Mr L and Mrs L had. But it understandably raised Evolutions concerns about 
the original purchase of the warranty  which, of course, had nothing to do with Mr and 
Mrs L. 
At that point, Evolution asked Mr and Mrs L for documents relating to their purchase of the 
property and for any communications between themselves and the vendor, who Evolution 
now suspected was also in fact the developer.
At the same time, Evolution pointed out the nature of the policy, which basically covers only 
major damage. And they drew Mr and Mrs Ls attention to certain exclusions within the 
policy. 
They also asked Mr and Mrs L to provide estimates for the work required to repair the 
various defects. And they reminded Mr and Mrs L that there was an index linked excess to 
be paid by them for each defect.
Its fair to say there was a reasonably strong indication that Evolution didnt think many, if 
any, of the defects Mr and Mrs L listed would be covered, for one reason or another.
But Evolution said they would look at the claim once Mr and Mrs L had provided the required 
information. Mr and Mrs L have not, as yet, provided that information. And so, Evolution 
havent considered the claim.
Mr and Mrs L complained to Evolution. They didnt uphold the complaint and maintained that 
they needed the requested information from Mr and Mrs L before they took any further 
action. So, Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Evolution had done anything wrong. He 
clarified with Evolution that they will consider Mr and Mrs Ls claim in full, once they have the 
information theyve requested in order to enable them to do so. And he thought there was 
nothing unfair or unreasonable in Evolution maintaining that position.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Evolution have admitted that their policy documentation is contradictory. The warranty 
application lists one party as the developer, the certificate lists another. Thats clearly an 
error and/or a failure to check the details on Evolutions part (or their agents).
It's certainly not Mr and Mrs Ls fault. And it shouldnt in any way impact the warranty they 
have with Evolution, which they didnt purchase but which was provided to them as a 
condition of their purchase of the property.
Evolution have been paid for the warranty. The warranty clearly applies to Mr and Mrs Ls 
property. It has been transferred to them legitimately (the policy terms allow for that). And 
they are entitled to think that Evolution will deliver what the policy promises.
It's arguable that Evolution might have been slightly clearer about what they needed from 
Mr L and Mrs L  and why. And in particular, I think the issues have been clouded by 
Evolutions (or their agents) attempts to pre-empt what the outcome of the claim might be.
But Evolution have now clearly and unequivocally agreed that they will consider the claim 
once Mr L and Mrs L have provided the required information to them. So, all other things 
being equal, the claim wont then be further held up by Evolutions attempts to establish 
exactly who the developer was and why their certification is self-contradictory.
I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for Evolution to ask for that information. Its 
reasonable for them to want to establish who the developer is in fact. And to know whether 
the property was sold with any building work outstanding or with any agreement about 
further work to be carried out. 
And the estimates for the repair work will be necessary to establish whether Evolution need 
to pay for the repairs and to what extent. 
Im aware Mr and Mrs L think Evolution should have the repairs carried out, but the policy 
terms give them discretion to determine whether to do so or to pay a cash settlement for any 
covered repairs. And so, theyre within their rights to ask Mr and Mrs L to provide estimates 
from their own potential contractors.In short, the way out of the current impasse is for Mr and Mrs L to provide the requested 
information. Its not unfair for Evolution to ask them to do so before they consider the claim. 
Of course, if Mr and Mrs L provide that information and then subsequently have an issue 
with Evolutions decision on the claim itself, they can make a further complaint to Evolution 
about that. And if they arent satisfied with the outcome, they can then bring that further 
complaint to us.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman