DRN-3665559
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Leeds Building Society at first said it would be able to offer
them additional borrowing on the mortgage they have for a buy to let property (BTL) but
then changed its mind.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W said they had an existing BTL mortgage with Leeds, which theyd held for
some years. They wanted to borrow more money from Leeds, releasing equity from their
BTL property, to help family members with a different property purchase. They said they
initially enquired on 12 August 2021, and received a very positive response from Leeds,
indicating they could borrow a little less than £200,000 if they wished. Mr and Mrs W said
their family members relied on this, in their negotiations about property they intended to buy.
Mr and Mrs W then rang back on 4 October, and booked an appointment with a mortgage
advisor, for 20 October. But by the 20 October appointment, Leeds had changed its mind. It
said they couldnt have a mortgage, as it wasnt lending on their particular type of rented
property, which is a House in Multiple Occupation (HMO).
Mr and Mrs W said Leeds had blamed them for not providing the right information about their
rented property initially, but they said they had always responded accurately to the questions
they were asked. They thought Leeds had all the information it needed to see their property
was an HMO on the call on 4 October, so if this was going to be an issue, it should have
been raised then. In fact, probably earlier, because they said this property has always been
rented as an HMO, from 2014 to now. They said if Leeds hadnt previously noted the
property as an HMO, that was its fault, not theirs.
Mr and Mrs W said once Leeds realised their rented property was an HMO, it said it couldnt
lend to them, as it wasnt offering lending on this sort of property at that time. But they told us
what Leeds said about this was confused and contradictory. And its position was directly
contradicted by the lending guidance that Leeds had recently published, which said it would
lend on HMO properties.
Mr and Mrs W said, because of the misinformation and delays, they were concerned that the
family members they were trying to assist would lose the property they had been in the
process of purchasing. Mr and Mrs W said it was ridiculous that Leeds wouldnt lend to them,
and if they went elsewhere for lending on the BTL property, they would need to move their
existing mortgage from Leeds, which would trigger a large early redemption charge (ERC).
They complained, and asked Leeds either to lend to them, or waive the ERC. In response,
Leeds said it had now reinstated lending on HMO properties, but based on the rent they
received, the maximum loan would be only a little more than half what Mr and Mrs W wanted
to borrow, and less than half what they were initially told they could obtain.
Mr and Mrs W said by this time, their family members had an offer accepted on a home they
wanted to buy, and had paid solicitors fees. When Mr and Mrs W then discovered that they
would need to seek other lending elsewhere, those family members had to withdraw from
this purchase, and pursue a different property. They lost money on this.
When Leeds replied to Mr and Mrs W, it said it had failed to ask them if their property was an
HMO when they first asked about lending, in August. It said it should have asked then. And
Mr and Mrs W told it on 4 October that the property was being let to multiple occupants. It
failed to pick this up then too, when it made an appointment with a mortgage advisor.
In the 20 October appointment Leeds told Mr and Mrs W it couldnt lend on an HMO property
at that time. It then reinstated lending on these properties, but it still calculated the amounts
it would lend on HMOs differently to other BTLs, so the maximum loan it could offer was
considerably lower than Mr and Mrs W had hoped for.
Leeds said Mr and Mrs Ws original mortgage application didnt indicate that the property
was an HMO. So it didnt know about the status of the property before 4 October. Leeds
accepted that Mr and Mrs W had had a mortgage with it, for this property, for a while, but it
said each time they remortgaged, they had done so without any advice from it.
Leeds said HMOs are more complex properties. They have their own product range and
criteria. It had stopped lending on HMOs temporarily during the pandemic. Leeds
acknowledged its recent guide, published for brokers, mentioned lending to HMOs, but said
that this guide made clear that:
All criteria, including: Buy-to-Let, Portfolio Buy-to-Let, Holiday Let, and HMO, is
subject to product availability.
And the criteria page states:
Please note, some of our lending criteria has temporarily changed due to the current
situation. Please visit our dedicated page for more information.
So Leeds said the information making clear that there were no HMO products available was
available to brokers, although it wasnt clear about how Mr and Mrs W were to be made
aware of this.
Leeds paid Mr and Mrs W £75 to say sorry because it didnt pick up that their BTL property
was an HMO until their 20 October appointment. It wouldnt do more than that. It wouldnt
lend any more than it had offered, and it wouldnt waive the ERC on their existing lending.
Mr and Mrs W wanted us to look into how they were supposed to know that Leeds wasnt
going to lend to them, as information on product availability only seemed to be shared with
brokers. They felt that the focus on their 2014 application form was an attempt to deflect the
blame onto them for Leeds failure to identify the property as an HMO. And they said that if
being an HMO impacted on Leeds lending criteria, then they thought their initial application
in 2014 and transfer applications made regularly since, should have specifically asked
whether the property was let out as an HMO. But Leeds had never asked this.
Mr and Mrs W also said they werent convinced that HMOs were a different type of property.
They said any BTL property which has 3 or more non-related tenants could be classed as an
HMO, and not all of these need a licence.
They still thought Leeds should waive the ERC, so they could move their lending elsewhere.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that its up to Leeds
what mortgage products, and lending criteria, it has in place for HMOs. Our service cant
comment on that. Leeds had accepted it should have checked whether the property was an
HMO in the initial enquiry in August 2021, and then on the call of 4 October 2021.
Our investigator said he hadnt found any evidence that Mr and Mrs W had been anything
other than transparent in their dealings with Leeds, but it still wasnt aware that the propertywas an HMO before 4 October. He thought what Leeds had paid in compensation was fair.
And he couldnt say the ERC should be written off, because it wasnt linked to the mistake
that Leeds had made.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They wanted us to look at how Leeds had contradicted itself,
hadnt followed its own published lending guide, and failed to indicate in good time that it
wouldnt lend to them. They said they were only ever offered very considerably less than
Leeds had indicated they could borrow, meaning they were forced to go elsewhere, and pay
both a large ERC and fees. So they said that a compensation payment of £75 was derisory.
They said their broker hadnt misled Leeds in their initial 2014 application. They wanted to
refute any suggestion that they should have alerted Leeds to the property being an HMO
then, and set out their reasons for this. And they thought that if the way their property was
rented out was really an issue of significance, then Leeds would have got clarification on it
earlier.
Mr and Mrs W also said we were wrong to say an ERC would always have been payable. If
they had been able to get the extra lending they were offered from Leeds, they wouldnt
have had to pay this.
Mr and Mrs W thought that if Leeds had had properly upheld their complaint, it would have
addressed its negligence seriously and offered more than £75 in compensation.
Because no agreement had been reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision. I 
then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision saying why I proposed to uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr and Mrs W have set out their arguments to our service in detail. I thank them for this. 
Although I havent set their arguments out in the same level of detail here, I have read 
those representations carefully and in full. But before I begin, Id like to say to Mr and Mrs 
W that, although I do think this complaint should be upheld, and Leeds should pay a little 
more than it has offered, its likely that my proposal will fall far short of their expectations 
in this case, and Im sorry to say that it is likely to be disappointing for them.
Ill explain why Ive reached that view. And Id like to start by looking back at what 
happened before Mr and Mrs W asked about additional lending. Mr and Mrs W said that 
Leeds should already have known their home was an HMO, and I can see Leeds has 
referred back to the original application they made. But I dont think this is likely to be 
relevant to the discussions between Mr and Mrs W and Leeds in the second half of 2021.
Mr and Mrs W applied for their lending in April 2014. Whilst mandatory HMO licencing 
was actually introduced in 2006, it wasnt until 2018 that it was greatly expanded. Theres 
no suggestion that Mr and Mrs Ws BTL property would have been treated as an HMO in 
2014, when they made this application. I can see that Mr and Mrs W have told us that 
there was no requirement for their property to be licenced as an HMO until much more 
recently.
So I dont think that Leeds had to ask if the property was an HMO in 2014, and I dont 
think Mr and Mrs W had to declare this then. It just wasnt likely to be an issue.
Since then, as Mr and Mrs W acknowledged, the underlying legal position has changed, 
and their BTL property does now fall within HMO licencing requirements. The pandemic may also have affected the position of HMOs, and their attractiveness to lenders. So Ive 
thought about whether Leeds ought to have asked about this after 2014, but before 2021.
Mr and Mrs W had repeatedly remortgaged with Leeds, taking out new fixed term interest 
rate offers every two years. But each time they did that, they were only changing the 
interest rate on existing lending, not asking to borrow any more. So I wouldnt expect 
Leeds to ask detailed questions about the propertys status as part of this, or indeed 
about the income used to repay the mortgage.
Thats because Leeds is in a very different situation when it looks at existing lending, to 
when its asked to lend more. If Leeds has concerns about existing lending  including 
about whether changes in underlying legislation or wider societal changes may have 
affected the security for the lending - then its options are quite limited. It couldnt just ask 
Mr and Mrs W to give back all the money it had already lent them, and which they were 
still using to cover their investment in this property.
But Leeds can decide not to lend more. So the two situations are very different, and very 
different levels of information are requested. Moving existing lending to a new interest 
rate is often light touch, but adding additional lending requires a full application.
So I think the first time when it was important for Leeds to be aware of the status of Mr 
and Mrs Ws property was in August 2021, when they asked about how much more they 
might be able to borrow. Leeds has accepted it ought to have checked then whether the 
property was an HMO. And it says it also ought to have picked up on this on 4 October, 
when Mr W described the property as occupied by a number of professionals under one 
lease.
Mr W also says that Leeds has been inconsistent about whether it could lend to him. He 
noted that its published guide suggested he could borrow on an HMO, and he didnt know 
where he was supposed to find out that he couldnt do so.
But I also note that Mr and Mrs W dont seem to have suggested that they were actually 
misled into making this extra lending application to Leeds, either by the brokers guide, or 
by Leeds website. It seems that this is documentation they didnt see until after Leeds 
had turned them down for extra lending, because their property was an HMO.
Thats consistent with the call Ive listened to on 4 October.
I would expect, if Mr W had been aware on 4 October that Leeds had different criteria for 
lending to an HMO, as set out in the guide he later shared with us, then he would have 
volunteered this information to Leeds, to check that it had taken this into account. He 
didnt do that.
Like our investigator, I dont think Mr W deliberately left this information out when he was 
talking to Leeds. I dont think he was trying to mislead the building society. I think he 
simply hadnt realised at this stage that the particular status of his BTL might be an issue.
Leeds says it wasnt lending on HMOs at that time. And I havent seen anything to 
contradict what Leeds said to Mr W, when it told him it had suspended lending on HMOs 
during the pandemic, but was planning to review this position. (Ive already said I dont 
think Mr W was misled by the guide Leeds produced shortly in advance of that review, 
saying it could lend on these properties, subject to product availability.) So it appears that 
when Mr W enquired, Leeds just wasnt offering lending on HMO properties, although it 
seems to have been planning to start doing so again soon. And indeed, whether it wasnt 
offering lending on HMO properties at all, or wasnt able to offer them the amount they wanted on their property, the situation remains the same. Mr and Mrs W would always 
have had to look elsewhere for the lending they wanted.
The issue, I think, is when Mr and Mrs W were told that Leeds wouldnt lend them what  
they wanted to borrow. Leeds didnt flag up the issues with lending to HMOs to Mr and 
Mrs W, either in August or on 4 October. And its accepted it should have done so. That 
means I have to think about the consequences of this.
If Mr and Mrs W had been alerted earlier to the issues with lending on their property, then 
they could have talked to other lenders sooner. But they would still have needed to look 
elsewhere for this lending. I think this is the situation our investigator was referring to 
when he said an ERC would then always have been payable. And I think thats right.
I can see Mr and Mrs W were told, when they were offered their most recent fixed term 
mortgage deal in June 2020, that an ERC would be payable if they moved their existing 
lending before the end of July 2022. And theyve told us Leeds charged that when they 
moved their lending elsewhere. I dont think Leeds had to waive this charge.
Mr and Mrs W said that by the time they realised Leeds wouldnt lend to them, their family 
members had found a property they wanted, had an offer accepted, and had incurred 
legal costs for the start of the purchase process. But I also have to bear in mind that Mr 
and Mrs W dont appear to have had anything other than a very high level discussion 
about how much Leeds might be prepared to lend, before 20 October. They didnt have a 
mortgage offer in place. So, although Leeds could have checked the status of their 
property earlier, and then alerted them to the different lending issues for HMOs, I also 
think that its not Leeds fault that Mr and Mrs Ws family members went ahead with an 
offer on a property, and incurred costs as part of that, in advance of any formal mortgage 
offer by Leeds. I dont think that Leeds has to contribute towards those costs.
I do, however, think that Leeds missed opportunities to alert Mr and Mrs W to the issues 
with their property earlier. And what Mr W has said about the enquiries he made after the 
lending was refused, make me think that Leeds communications at this point were 
confused, and confusing. So, in all the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think that 
the payment Leeds has made is quite enough. But, because I dont think Leeds is 
responsible for many of the consequences of the delay in telling them it wouldnt lend, Im 
afraid that my view here will fall considerably short of what Mr and Mrs W have proposed.
I think that a payment of £200 by Leeds, to make up for not alerting Mr and Mrs W earlier 
that they needed to seek their lending elsewhere, and for not communicating clearly with 
them when their lending was refused, would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. I understand that Leeds has already paid £75, so Ill allow it to count that 
payment towards my award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Leeds said it was happy to accept my decision. Mr W replied on behalf of himself and Mrs W, to say they didnt agree. He set out their 
concerns in detail. They didnt think £200 was enough compensation for what Leeds had 
done, and the extent to which the delay in informing them impacted on them. 
Mr W noted Id said Leeds didnt have to ask if the property was an HMO in 2014, as it 
wasnt likely to be an issue. He asked why Leeds made it an issue in its response. I think 
that may be because the propertys HMO status did affect lending by the time of this 
application, so Leeds wanted to show it didnt know the property was an HMO before this. 
But whatever the reason, I dont agree that Leeds has attempted to, as Mr and Mrs W 
suggested, use this as  a smokescreen to avoid them having to admit liability.
Mr W also wanted to clarify how they believed they were misled by Leeds. Id said I thought 
Mr and Mrs W hadnt seen the brokers guide they referred to until after Leeds refused the 
extra lending. Mr W said it was primarily Leeds advisors who misled him, but he thought the 
guide indicated why this might have happened. I dont think thats likely, as Leeds advisors 
are unlikely to work from a guide it publishes for brokers. Id expect its advisors to work from 
Leeds own internal information, which could be more flexible and quickly updated.
Mr W said there wasnt enough emphasis on the fact they were misled by Leeds staff who 
werent aware of the confusion around the policy on lending on HMOs. He said that may 
explain why it wasnt flagged up, which in turn led to them being unfairly inconvenienced.
Mortgages are a complex financial product, and for lending continuing over a very long term, 
can be surprisingly fast-moving. So it can be the case that only those who are formally 
positioned as mortgage advisors will be fully in touch with a firms existing product range. But 
Leeds has accepted that the advisor Mr W spoke to in August should have alerted him to the 
particular issues on lending secured on HMO properties then.
I understand there was some confusion after the lending was refused. And its frustrating to 
initially receive mixed messages about whats gone wrong. But I have taken that into 
account in reaching my view on the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Mr W quoted my reasons for concluding he hadnt seen the broker guide before 4 October. 
But he said the guide confirmed what hed assumed, Leeds would lend on HMO properties. 
Mr W said in that case hed have no reason to volunteer these details about his property. 
I disagree. The guide makes clear that, even when Leeds will lend on HMOs, it uses 
different criteria. For example, the maximum loan to value (LTV) for HMOs is lower than for 
other BTL property. So I wouldve expected Mr W, if he had already read this guide, would 
want to ensure at the earliest possible stage that Leeds knew his BTL property was an HMO. 
I dont infer from Mr Ws comments that he had access to this guide before 4 October. But I 
dont agree with his contention that the point when he got access to this guide isnt relevant. 
Mr W said Id quoted two sections from this guide (in italics in the what happened section 
above). Mr W said hed question whether product availability referred to the suspension in 
lending to HMOs. He asked why it would, when the guide indicated Leeds would lend on 
HMOs. And he asked why the statement on changes to lending criteria would refer to the 
decision not to lend on HMO properties. He said if that was the case, why werent customers 
told this? He said making information available to brokers but not customers showed a two-
tier service that discriminates against the customer, in their case with seriously detrimental 
consequences. Mr W didnt think Id given this enough weight in the summing up.I think that the reason Ive not focussed greatly on the content of the guide is because Ive 
concluded that its not likely Mr W was misled by this guide. And because of that, I just dont 
think the guide is central to this case, in the way he has argued for. 
Mr W thought what Leeds did was inconsistent with the guide  and that this undermined 
what it said about not lending on HMOs. So I have considered the guide to see if Leeds 
actions were inconsistent with it. But I dont think they were. 
The guide Mr W has now read, at least in part, isnt written for customers. Its intended for 
brokers, who are familiar with the mortgage market, and it assumes a level of baseline 
knowledge. I think thats why it doesnt state mortgage products on offer can change on a 
daily basis, or explain why an overarching guide to mortgage products doesnt offer any 
guarantee that lending would be available generally in the areas it covers. 
I should also be clear that I dont think this guide is inconsistent with Leeds having withdrawn 
from lending on HMO properties. I still think its likely Leeds had withdrawn from this lending 
before Mr Ws first enquiry in August 2021, and it then published a guide which included 
HMO lending because it was hoping to resume this lending shortly.
 
Mr W wanted to stress that he was told he could borrow more on 12 August 2021, and on 4 
October. But on 20 October he was told Leeds wasnt lending on HMO properties.
Mr W noted Id said it didnt matter whether Leeds wasnt lending on HMO properties at all, 
or wasnt able to offer the amount they wanted, they would still have had to look elsewhere. 
But he said they wouldnt necessarily have had to look elsewhere if Leeds position had been 
clear from the outset it wasnt lending on HMOs but was planning to do so again soon. 
They could then have chosen to wait until Leeds was lending again. And they could have 
looked for a place that they could afford using what Leeds was prepared to lend. 
Mr W said Id also decided it wasnt Leeds fault their family members made an offer on a 
property, and incurred costs, without securing a mortgage offer from Leeds. They said they 
made the initial enquiry so they could then look at properties to purchase, and they told 
Leeds this. They thought it was partly Leeds fault that they went ahead, because they 
werent given any precautionary advice to do otherwise, and the delay was considerable. 
I understand Mr and Mrs W did say they wanted to use the money to help purchase a 
property, but I havent seen or heard anything to suggest Leeds had told them they could 
rely on getting this lending. On the call Mr W had with Leeds on 4 October, the advisor said 
to Mr W that he would go through some details, get Mr Ws appointment booked in, so he 
could get a decision in principle - then go ahead with an offer on the property he wanted. Mr 
W said on this call that he shouldve got this decision in principle before the offer was made.
I dont think Leeds is responsible for warning Mr and Mrs W they could not rely on lending 
until a mortgage offer was in place. What I can hear is consistent with Leeds not having 
made any commitment to lend, and indeed with Mr W having understood this was the case.
Nor do I think Leeds ought to have said in early August 2021 that it was likely to resume 
HMO lending soon, so that Mr and Mrs W could plan on that basis. Although Leedss guide 
(in effect from late September) does suggest it was aiming to restart this lending, it didnt do 
so until November 2021. I think its likely things were still just too uncertain in early August 
2021 for Leeds to be able to set things out for Mr and Mrs W with any level of confidence.
Mr and Mrs W said Leeds must be partly responsible for what had gone wrong, because it 
had twice said they were eligible for further borrowing. It was then ten weeks before they were told they werent. They said thats a long time not to be looking for a property, and they 
stressed they had no reason to suspect they would be refused an offer.
Ive explained that I simply dont think its Leeds responsibility to warn Mr W or his family not 
to enter into financial commitments relying on its lending before it, in turn, is actually 
committed to making that lending to him. And Ive not seen anything to suggest to me that 
the time between Mr Ws first enquiry, in mid-August, and when Mr W called to book an 
appointment for a mortgage interview, in early October, was a delay caused by Leeds. 
Mr W didnt think £200 was enough to encourage Leeds to put right practices discriminating 
against the customer, and to encourage it to properly inform customers of its lending 
policies, as well as improve how it trains staff. They didnt think it would compensate for the 
wasted time and energy in applying for a mortgage they were never eligible for, and the 
consequences of not telling them this earlier. They thought this should be greatly increased.
Our service isnt a regulator, and we dont exist to punish businesses. I cannot make an 
award on the basis that it will motivate a business to do better in future. When I consider the 
appropriate amount of compensation in a case, I can look only at the circumstances of that 
case. And I do understand that Mr and Mrs W are likely to have a different view on 
compensation, because they have a different view on how much of this is Leeds fault. 
I have set out for them why I havent reached the same conclusions. And when I look at the 
things I think Leeds did do wrong here, I do still think that a compensation payment of £200 
provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed, but for the above reasons, I havent 
changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Leeds Building Society must pay Mr and Mrs W £200 in 
compensation. Leeds Building Society can count any payment it has already made for this 
complaint towards that total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman