DRN-3316130
The complaint
Mr A complains that when he took out a finance agreement with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) he was told the interest rate could be reduced if he made payments to plan. 
Hes unhappy that hasnt proven to be the case.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for 
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes 
out the credit agreement. So, if Mr A was told something that was false by the broker, or by 
Moneybarn, when he negotiated the finance, and if he wouldnt have proceeded had it not 
been for that false statement, I would think the agreement had been misrepresented to him 
and Id ask Moneybarn to take some action.
Mr A says he was told the interest rate could be varied on his agreement after a few years if 
he kept up with payments and that if he hadnt been told that he wouldnt have proceeded.
Unfortunately, Ive not been provided with any evidence that Mr A was told that. Moneybarn 
havent been able to identify the call and Mr A hasnt been able to explain when the call was 
made to make that task easier for them. Mr A has asked me to listen to the call when he 
made his complaint to Moneybarn and in which he says they promised the calls would be 
available. But I dont think that call would be helpful. It wouldnt provide the necessary 
evidence, that Mr A was told the interest rate would vary. That could only be provided by the 
broker if thats how (as seems likely) the agreement was reached with Mr A; or by 
Moneybarn and they cant locate that information.
The contract explained that The interest rate is fixed and applies throughout the duration of 
this Agreement. So, in the absence of any more detailed evidence to the contrary I dont 
think it would be fair to suggest it was mis-sold to Mr A.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman