DRN-3211348
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society has failed to pay him a £100 incentive for 
opening a current account.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr S decided to transfer his current account to Nationwide to obtain a £100 incentive 
it was offering at the time.
To qualify, he had to transfer over his current account together with two active direct 
debits. He says he was given misleading information about this during a call with 
Nationwide.
He first started the process of switching his account over in August 2021 but when he 
found one of the direct debits wouldnt qualify, he decided not to go ahead and so 
Nationwide didnt complete the account opening.
Subsequently, he decided to try again but made a mistake with the direct debits and 
asked Nationwide to cancel the account. But it said it couldnt as this time it had been 
successfully opened. 
He wasnt happy as he wanted to close the account and had to go into a branch to do 
it which he said wasted time.
Nationwide told him he didnt qualify for the incentive so he complained. It didnt think 
it had done anything wrong but offered £25 as a gesture of goodwill in recognition of 
the stress hed experienced.
He brought his complaint to this Service but our Investigator didnt uphold it so Mr S 
asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The incentive
My starting point for this decision is what Mr S needed to do to qualify for the £100. This is 
detailed in the terms and conditions of the incentive which were available to Mr S when he 
applied for the account online. In this case, the key condition was:
7. You must transfer a minimum of two active Direct Debits from the current account 
being switched to the Nationwide account
The first time Mr S attempted the account transfer, one of the direct debits he was 
transferring wasnt active as no payments had been taken under it yet. One of Nationwides 
representatives explained this to him and this led him to cancel the new account.
The second time, by Mr S own testimony, he made a mistake with the direct debits which 
meant he knew he wouldnt qualify. He wanted to cancel the account again, but it had 
already been opened this time so he had to go into a branch.
As Mr S didnt transfer across two active direct debits from his existing bank to his new 
Nationwide account, he didnt meet the required condition Ive detailed above and therefore 
didnt qualify for the incentive. Because of this, Im satisfied Nationwide acted fairly when it 
declined to pay him the £100.
Misleading information
Mr S says he was given misleading information by a Nationwide representative about the 
requirement for the direct debits to be active. This is contested by Nationwide but even if he 
was, Im satisfied the conditions of the offer were set out clearly in the information he would 
have seen when opening the account. So, Im not persuaded the outcome would have been 
any different. And in light of the limited impact, even if I agreed it did mislead him, this isnt 
something Id look to compensate him for above the £25 already offered.
Account closure
Mr S was unhappy he had to call at a branch to close the account after his second attempt to 
qualify for the incentive. This was a requirement as this time the account had been fully 
opened. 
He was offered the opportunity to close it using online banking on receipt of a card reader 
but he chose to go into the branch as he wanted to close the account more quickly. The 
requirements around closing accounts are a matter for a business to decide and I wouldnt 
interfere with them but Im satisfied it offered Mr S a reasonable alternative which he chose 
not to accept. 
Distress and inconvenience
I know Mr S rejected the £25 Nationwide offered as a gesture of goodwill as he didnt think it 
reflected the inconvenience hed experienced. But Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. Ill merely leave it to Mr S to approach Nationwide to let it know if he 
now wishes to accept this offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman