DRN-3960220
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI) recorded a default on his credit 
file. 
What happened
Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into an agreement with RCI. The agreement 
ended on 30 April 2019.
Mr C advised RCI that he wished to return the car rather than pay the final payment.
Mr C returned the car to the dealership on 30 April 2019. The MOT had expired on 28 April 
2019. Mr C asked the dealership to carry out an MPOT and paid in advance for this. Mr C 
cancelled his insurance.
Mr C contacted RCI and advised them of the cars location on 2 May 2019. He had tried to 
advise RCI of the cars location prior to this but his emails had been sent to an incorrect 
email address and hadnt been received.
On 3 May 2019 RCI instructed agents to collect the car. However, the agents were unable to 
collect the car because it didnt have a valid MOT.
The MOT was carried out by the dealership on 21 May 2019.
On 25 May 2019 RCI sent a text to Mr C asking him to arrange collection of the car. No 
collection booking was made. On 20 June 2019 RCI issued a default notice due to the car 
not being returned. 
RCI terminated the agreement on the back of the default notice on 8 August 2019. The car 
was eventually collected from the dealership on 11 September 2019.
Mr C complained to RCI about the default which had been recorded on his credit file. In 
response, RCI said the default had been registered because the car was uninsured, and the 
agreement had exceeded its maturity date with the car not being returned.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Mr C was under an obligation to 
keep the car insured whilst it was in his possession and to make sure that there was a valid 
MOT when the car was collected. The investigator said that because Mr C had breached the 
terms of the agreement, RCI hadnt done anything wrong by issuing the default notice.
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed returned the car to the dealership in time and it wasnt his 
fault that there had been a delay in the MOT being carried out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr C took the car to the dealership on 30 April 2019 (the date the 
agreement ended) and paid in advance for an MOT to be completed. 
The terms of Mr Cs agreement require the car to have a valid MOT before collection can be 
completed. Mr C was also required to keep the car insured whilst it was in his possession. 
The agreement ended on 30 April, and the MOT had expired on 28 April, so Mr C knew  or 
ought to have known  that the car couldnt be collected until the MOT had been carried out.
When the collection agents tried to collect the car, they were unable to collect it because it 
didnt have a valid MOT. So the lack of the MOT was the initial reason for the car not being 
collected. Mr C was responsible for this because he returned the car to the dealership 
without an MOT.
The MOT wasnt carried out until 21 May 2019. RCI didnt hear from Mr C to arrange a 
collection and tried to contact him without success. Ultimately RCI issued a default notice 
because the car hadnt been returned and had been left without insurance. 
The default notice required Mr C to return the car or pay the final payment by 11 July 2019. 
But the car wasnt retuned by this date and Mr C didnt make a final payment either. The 
termination of the agreement was put on hold because the agents said that Mr C had told 
them that the insurance company had collected the car. RCI investigated and asked Mr C to 
confirm the location of the car. Due to a lack of communication from Mr C RCI terminated the 
agreement in August 2019.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was unreasonable for RCI to issue the default 
notice. Mr C breached the terms of the agreement when he failed to return the car and failed 
to keep it insured. I appreciate that the car wasnt collected immediately after the end of the 
agreement because it had no MOT. I understand that Mr C thought the MOT would be 
competed sooner than it was but ultimately, Mr C must bear responsibility for not having the 
MOT carried out before the car was due to be collected at the end of the agreement. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think RCI acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
issued the default notice. I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman