DRN-2223426
The complaint
Miss T has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has 
terminated her claim.
What happened
Miss T had a group income protection policy, via her employer, underwritten by L&G. This 
would pay a benefit if Miss T was unable to work due to illness or injury. Miss T made a 
claim, which was accepted and paid for a period of five years. After this, the definition of 
incapacity changed to suited occupation. L&G didnt think Miss T met the definition, so it 
terminated the claim. 
Miss T complained and said the medical evidence demonstrated she couldnt work more 
than three days. And she wasnt able to do her job. She referred her complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think L&G had unfairly terminated Miss 
Ts claim as the medical evidence didnt show that she was unable to return to work in a 
suited occupation.
Miss T disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
She doesnt understand why L&G isnt obliged to pay under the policy terms for the 
two days shes unable to work as a result of illness which was recognised as a 
qualifying disability
All of the medical evidence supports she cant work more than three days a week 
due to the side effects of her medication
The policy is there to protect earnings as a full-time employee and when she was 
only working part time, payments were made 
The definition doesnt mention anything about reduced hours 
All of the roles identified were on a fulltime basis and didnt take into account part 
time working
She would require a lot of support and a phased return to employment and doesnt 
see how she would get this support
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Miss Ts complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions define incapacity and confirm that the definition of incapacity 
changes after a claim has been paid for five years  which was in June 2019. So from this 
date, Miss T would only receive benefit under the policy terms if she wasnt able to work in a 
suited occupation. The definition says:
the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury so that he is unable to undertake 
any occupation which we consider appropriate to his experience, training or education. 
L&G reviewed the claim and found the following:
The claim was initially accepted in April 2014 when Miss T was unable to perform the 
essential duties of her own occupation, as a senior manager.
Miss T did start a phased return to work and by January 2017, Miss T was working 
three days per week. She was unable to increase her hours due to fatigue and 
difficulties with concentration which were side effects of her medication.
L&G carried out a telephonic review in April 2018 when Miss T reported ongoing 
symptoms of fatigue.
L&G requested a medical report from Miss Ts Consultant Respiratory Physician 
which was completed in August 2018. The Consultant concluded Miss T was stable 
and could return to work in some capacity as long as she received the correct level of 
support. 
Miss T underwent a Transferable Skills Analysis (TSA) in November 2018 which 
identified roles which Miss T was suited to, including a financial service customer 
adviser, telemarketer customer service and administration assistant. 
Whilst the medical evidence indicates Miss T has symptoms of fatigue as a side 
effect of her treatment, her condition is stable.
Miss T says her occupational health physician has advised that she cant work full time and 
so she thinks L&G should at least pay her a partial benefit.
When the policy definition of disability changes to suited occupation the medical evidence 
doesnt show that Mrs T will be unable to work. And so she doesnt meet the definition. I note 
what Miss T says but the policy is clear that it will pay a benefit if Miss T meets the definition. 
Miss T did meet the definition of her own occupation. And so she did qualify for 
partial/proportionate payment when she could only work part time. But once the definition 
changed, Miss T no longer meets the definition of disability and so she isnt entitled to any 
benefit.
Legal and General has relied on all of the available medical evidence and all the specialists 
involved in Miss Ts care have said she could return to other work. L&G also made the point 
that Miss T was able to return to her more demanding own occupation for three days a 
week and so with the right support, she would be able to perform an alternative role working 
more than three days if the environment was less demanding. 
There is nothing within the medical evidence Ive seen which shows Miss T is unable to 
work. Although there is reference to part time work, the policy isnt designed to provide cover 
if a member is unable to work in a suited occupation on a full-time basis. It provides benefit if 
Miss Ts illness prevents her from working in a suited occupation. But the evidence doesnt 
suggest that Miss Ts illness will prevent her from working in a suited occupation. And so I 
dont think Legal and General has unfairly terminated the claim. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman