DRN-1762568
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement with 
PSA Finance UK Limited. He says a fault occurred within the first two weeks that is ongoing. 
He wants the fault repaired and to be refunded the cost of a failed repair. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement with PSA Finance to acquire a used car. 
Mr M says he took delivery of the car on 14 August 2018 and he has provided a copy of 
the vehicle registration document confirming this. 
Under the regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), PSA 
Finance can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car 
and what a reasonable person would expect taking into account all the circumstances. In 
this case the car was around three years at the point of acquisition.
Mr M says he experienced problems with the multi-media system within the first two 
weeks and contacted the dealership about the issue. In PSA Finances final response 
letter, it said that Mr M didnt raise the issue until around 11 months after acquisition. Mr 
M has provided copies of his telephone records from August 2018 and these show he 
made three calls to the dealership (22, 24 and 31 August). He has explained that the first 
two calls were regarding the fault and that the car was booked in for this to be 
investigated. Then the multi-media system started to work again and so the appointment 
was cancelled and he was told to monitor the situation. 
The dealership has said that calls are no longer available but that the calls could have 
been for a number of reasons and that had a fault been present then it would have 
expected Mr M to have returned the car for inspection. While I note the comments by the 
dealer, I find that the call evidence provided by Mr M supports his testimony. I also note 
in the service history there was an event cancelled for 8 September 2018. Because of 
this, I find It more likely than not that Mr M did contact the dealer shortly after acquisition 
about an issue with the multi-media system but as the issue then went away the booking 
for the car was cancelled.
When a fault is identified within the first 30 days, the consumer can have a short term 
right to reject the car. In this case, Mr M didnt request this and as the initial occurrence 
of the issue seemed to resolve itself, I do not find it unreasonable that a rejection didnt 
take place.
Mr M said that the issue with the multi-media system re-occurred and that it was 
happening on a sporadic basis. He returned the car to the dealer and the car was 
inspected and a software issue was diagnosed. Mr M said the repair wasnt covered by 
his warranty and so he paid £399. Unfortunately, this didnt resolve the issue. He says he 
was then told a replacement unit would be needed. 
As I have, on balance, accepted Mr Ms testimony regarding when the issue first arose, I 
find that this issue was more likely than not present or developing when the car was 
supplied. Because of this I find it reasonable that PSA Finance is liable for the cost of the 
issue being resolved.
Mr M paid for a repair attempt in July 2019. This wasnt successful and I find it 
reasonable that this amount is refunded along with interest. 
Mr M has suffered a loss of enjoyment as he acquired a car with a multi-media system, 
and this didnt work as it should have done. It worked intermittently for the first few 
months and then following a repair attempt it stopped working. Therefore, I agree with 
our investigator that Mr M should be refunded part of his payments to reflect this loss of 
enjoyment and I agree that 15% is reasonable.
Putting things right
In order to resolve Mr Ms complaint, PSA Finance UK Limited should:
ensure the cars multi-media system is repaired to a reasonable standard;
refund Mr M 15% of his payments made since August 2018 to reflect the loss of 
enjoyment; and
refund Mr M £399 paid to try to repair the fault. This amount is subject to 8% simple rate 
of interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. PSA Finance UK Limited should 
take the actions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman