DRN-3597603
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed his account and lodged a marker 
with CIFAS  a national fraud prevention service.
What happened
Mr S explained that he was approached by a friend to invest in crypto trading and promised 
a large percentage (approx. 40%) of the eventual profits for helping. Mr S was asked to open 
various accounts with online financial merchants including a crypto merchant. Mr S provided 
his bank account to his associates and also gave them his debit card for them to use when 
moving funds.
Mr S explained that one of the other persons set up a new version of his banking app on a 
different device and used this to move funds. Mr S received over £5,000 into his account 
which Barclays later confirmed was as the result of a fraud. Mr S denied knowing anything 
about the source of the funds and didnt realise that crypto funds belonged to anyone in 
particular.
The second device registered on Mr Ss account was also used to send a small payment to 
another of Mr Ss accounts some days before the fraudulent funds were received. The 
fraudulent funds were paid out to a crypto merchant soon after they were received into his 
account. The account for the crypto merchant was set up a week or so before the receipt of 
the fraudulent funds and a few small payments were made to it from Mr Ss account.
Once Barclays were aware of the fraudulent payment, they blocked Mr Ss account and then 
closed it. When Mr S spoke with Barclays about what had happened, he told them the funds 
were related to selling car parts on a popular trading website. Mr S later admitted this was 
incorrect and he was given this story by the people he was working with. After investigating 
the matter, Barclays lodged a marker with CIFAS  a national fraud prevention organisation.
Mr S complained to Barclays about the closure of his account and eventually also the CIFAS 
marker. Barclays looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt change their position. Mr S 
remained unhappy with how Barclays had dealt with his complaint and brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
It was looked into by one of our adjudicators who asked both parties for information about 
the complaint. Mr S explained that he was coached about what to do and what to say to 
Barclays. He was only involved to obtain funds to invest in his own online business. He didnt 
believe the funds he received were owned by anyone because it was to do with crypto 
trading. Mr S didnt know the funds were from fraudulent activity. Mr S provided various 
message exchanges with the person who was advising him to show that he (Mr S) was 
questioning the arrangement at the time. He also provided information about trying to track 
the crypto funds to identify their location and who owned them.
Barclays provided details of the fraudulent funds from the sending bank and their own 
analysis of what they believed had happened. This included details of the devices registered 
to use Mr Ss account and how the account was operated, including how Mr S emptied his 
account prior to the funds arriving in it. Mr S later accepted hed done this because he didnt 
want them to be mixed up with the incoming payments. Barclays believed the emptying of 
the account was to prevent Mr Ss own funds being retained if there was ever a problem with 
the transfers. 
Our investigator considered the evidence and thought it was reasonable for Barclays to 
close the account and lodge the CIFAS marker. Mr S disagreed and believed he was an 
innocent victim of the situation. He asked for a further review of his complaint, which has 
now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The adjudicator explained what the required standards were that Barclays had to meet when 
they lodged a marker with CIFAS. In summary this means that Barclays had to have 
reasonable grounds that a fraud had been committed. Once they received evidence from the 
sending bank about the source of the money  I think it was reasonable for them to satisfy 
this requirement.
The second aspect is that Barclays had evidence that was clear, relevant, and rigorous. It 
must be of the standard that they could confidently report the matter to the police. Here, 
Barclays had the report from the sending bank and their own analysis of what happened. 
The crux of this complaint is whether the interpretation of the evidence is a fair one from 
Barclays perspective or whether its more likely that Mr S was an innocent victim of someone 
elses fraud.
When Ive examined the available evidence, its apparent that Mr S was being coached 
when he opened various accounts and was unfamiliar with some of the processes. Its also 
apparent from some of the messages hes provided that he was concerned about the 
arrangement prior to the receipt of the fraudulent funds. But he was also content to allow 
them to proceed.
The payments into and out of his account also raise a question of Mr Ss knowledge about 
what was happening. At one point the second device (which Mr S says is operated by one of 
his associates) sends a payment from Mr Ss account to another account in his name. This 
happens prior to the fraudulent payments being received. The payment is for a small amount 
and appears to be Mr Ss own money. Id question why his associate would log into Mr Ss 
account to then send Mr S his own funds? 
The second device logs in and out of the account, also making small payments to the crypto 
merchant prior to the receipt of the fraudulent funds. During that time, Mr Ss own device is 
also logging in and out to move funds. What this says is that I think Mr S was aware what 
was happening with his account and the various comings and goings from it.
Prior to the receipt of the funds, Mr S reduces the amount of money in his account to 43 
pence. An unusual way to treat the account, but not if Mr S was concerned about his own 
funds being caught up with the fraudulent ones. I think the movement of these funds is 
indicative that Mr S was nervous about the arrangement, but not enough to abandon it. Mr S 
was told hed receive a 40% fee for his involvement in the movement of the funds, but all 
hed done was open accounts with other merchants and use his own account to receive the 
funds, allowing them to be sent on. Mr S hadnt invested his own funds (beyond a few 
pounds) into the crypto account, so Im not sure how he thought he was going to profit to 
such a large extent.His explanation that he didnt think the funds belonged to an individual (because they were 
crypto) is one I find difficulty in believing. Surely the whole point is that someone owns the 
funds, otherwise where did they come from?
When Barclays asked Mr S about the source of the funds, he was prepared with an answer 
supplied by his associates. He gave Barclays a story which he later admitted was wrong. Mr 
S blames his associates for this, and whilst I accept they gave him the story  Mr S seemed 
content to try and spin a lie to Barclays, no doubt in the hope that they would be happy with 
his answer. 
It's clear that Mr S had some misgivings about what was happening, but I think there was 
sufficient time for him to stop the activities or report the matter to Barclays. Mr S later said he 
was scared due to gang pressure from his associates, but theres no evidence in the many 
text messages that Mr S sent, that he was being forced into this. More so how to carry out 
the various steps to move the fraudulent funds or provide Barclays with a fabricated story.
Taking everything into account, Mr S handed control of his bank account (including handing 
his debit card over and giving them his logon details  including generating a code to allow 
the second devices registration) and set up other accounts (specifically the crypto account) 
that enabled the movement of fraudulent funds into his account and then transferred to 
crypto  making them highly unlikely to be able to be retrieved. Mr S later attempted to track 
them down with little success. Whilst I appreciate his efforts  the issue here is did Barclays 
meet the standard for reporting to CIFAS?
I think they did, Barclays evidence points to Mr S having some knowledge about what was 
happening, he lied to them in an attempt to cover what had actually gone on and was due to 
profit from the venture. Im satisfied they had sufficient evidence to lodge a marker with 
CIFAS and I wont be asking them to change this.
Regarding the closure of Mr Ss account, once Barclays determined Mr Ss role in this, he 
was in breach of the agreement to operate the account. Barclays were within their rights to 
close it immediately and I wont be asking them to do anything more about this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman