DRN-4027621
The complaint
Mr G complains he had to wait over thirty minutes when he called Clydesdale Bank Plc
trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) to discuss the interest on his Individual Savings
Account (ISA). 
What happened
Mr G called Virgin Money on 21 July 2022. He complains he waited too long for his call to be 
answered. He feels Virgin Money are understaffed. In light of this, he complained to Virgin 
Money and asked our service to investigate. 
Mr G also complained Virgin Money did not respond to his complaint within a reasonable 
time. However, a decision has already been made confirming that this falls outside of our 
jurisdiction. So, Im unable to consider the merits of this point and wont comment further on 
Virgin Moneys complaint handling. 
Virgin Money accepted there had been a long wait time and offered Mr G £25 compensation 
to recognise the impact of this. Our investigator issued a view explaining why they felt the 
compensation offered was fair and reasonable.
 
Mr G didnt agree. In summary, he said his complaint should be upheld and he was very 
disappointed with the compensation amount. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money have accepted there was a long wait time before Mr Gs call was answered. 
Virgin Money have explained this was a busier time for them, theyre aware of the delay and 
theyre working hard to respond to customers quickly. 
I appreciate Mr G feels very strongly about his complaint. I want to assure him that Ive 
thought carefully about what hes said and the impact to him. I agree Mr G waited longer 
than he could have expected, and this clearly caused him frustration. I note when his call 
was answered the query he had to raise was resolved.
I acknowledge Virgin Money have confirmed theyre working on ensuring their customers 
receive quick responses. Their specific staffing level is a commercial matter for Virgin Money 
to decide. But Mr G could still expect a reasonable service and I can consider the impact of 
Virgin Money falling short of this. Ive explained how they should put things right below. 
Putting things right
Mr G waited longer than he could have expected when calling Virgin Money. I understand 
this had an emotional impact on him and Virgin Money should appropriately recognise this. I 
appreciate Mr G was disappointed with Virgin Moneys offer. However, Im satisfied £25 
compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
  
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin 
Money) should pay Mr G £25 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman