DRN-4296162
The complaint
Ms A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to properly administer her 
account which resulted in a loss of funds.
What happened
Ms A made two payments from her account which werent immediately processed by either 
the merchant or Barclays. A third transaction was reported by Ms A as unrecognised.
Ms A later confirmed to Barclays that two of the transactions were genuine and one was 
fraud. Barclays removed the fraudulent payment, but the other two payments werent taken 
from her account for a few months.
Ms A believes that the two payments have been taken twice from her account and as a 
result shes missing funds which she wants Barclays to refund. Ms A has also complained 
that when the two payments were taken (again), it left her short of funds whilst out shopping 
and she was unable to purchase food for her family.
Barclays confirmed that there had been an issue with the processing of some payments 
during the period Ms A used her account. Theyve said that when the payments were 
originally made, her available balance was reduced corresponding to the two payments. Due 
to the processing issue, the funds never fully completed the payment process (by crediting 
the merchants accounts) and the funds were then made available again on Ms As account.
It appears that the fraudulent transaction caused the other two genuine payments to be held 
by Barclays to protect Ms As account from further fraud. Barclays accept that they delayed 
dealing with the issue and it wasnt until a few months later that the two earlier transactions 
were finally credited to the merchants accounts. 
Barclays have said that they sent requests for information to Ms A for her to confirm whether 
the original three payments were either genuine or fraudulent. In those letters, Barclays 
stated that any payments confirmed as genuine would be debited from the account within 
three days of the receipt of the response. Ms A responded that two of them were genuine 
and the third was fraudulent. The fraudulent payment had already been reversed when first 
reported, so nothing further was done regarding that transaction.
Once Barclays received confirmation that the other two were genuine, they released the 
payments to the merchants. It was at this point that Ms As accounts available balance was 
much less than she anticipated, causing her embarrassment when out shopping. 
Ms A complained to Barclays about the issue, believing that shed had the funds taken twice 
and her account balance was less than it should be. Ms A believed that Barclays had never 
credited her account with any funds.
Barclays accepted that theyd administered the account poorly and paid £70 compensation 
to Ms A, but they didnt accept that her account was missing any funds. Ms A was left 
unhappy with how Barclays had handled her complaint and still believed they owed her 
about £600. Ms A then brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent review.
An investigator was assigned to the complaint and asked both parties for information about 
what had happened. Ms A continued to believe that Barclays had failed to properly account 
for her funds and she was left with less money than she should have. She was left upset 
when her account finally debited the original funds (she believes this was the second time) 
because it left her short of funds whilst out shopping. Ms A also thought that Barclays had 
been rude to her because she was told to check her own statements when she believed this 
was Barclays role.
Barclays accepted there had been a processing issue with some payments and that theyd 
delayed sending letters about the transactions to Ms A for nearly two months. They didnt 
accept that the account was missing any funds and the original transactions had only been 
settled once. Barclays explained that their letters notified the account holder about when 
genuine transactions would be debited from the account, so Ms A would have been aware 
when this was happening.
During the investigation, Barclays offered a further £50 compensation which Ms A refused. 
After reviewing the complaint, the investigator thought that Barclays total offer was 
reasonable to reflect the poor service Ms A had experienced. She didnt think that Ms A had 
lost any money because the original transaction hadnt fully debited her account, so the 
funds had then been made available to Ms As account at the time.
Ms A disagreed with the investigators outcome and continued to argue that she was out of 
pocket by several hundred pounds. She didnt think that Barclays offer of compensation was 
enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main aspects to this complaint, one disputed transaction reported as fraud by 
Ms A and then a belief that Barclays administered her account in error which resulted in 
funds missing from her account.
Barclays accepted the disputed transaction as fraud. The payment was reversed at the time 
of the original report which means that Ms As account wasnt adversely affected by this. Her 
funds were returned to her, so I wont be considering this any further.
Regarding the other two payments, its apparent that there was an issue with how they were 
administered which Barclays accept they were at fault for delaying the final processing of the 
two genuine payments.
I accept that errors do occur and its important how a business responds to those errors. 
Here, Barclays no doubt could have done better, particularly by reducing the time between 
the original report of the problem and the final processing of the payments.
Having looked at the statements related to Ms As account; those two transactions have only 
debited once. I understand Ms A believes they left her account previously and this has left 
her out of pocket. Unfortunately, the evidence doesnt support that assertion.
Ive no doubt at the time Ms As account reflected the available balance which had been 
reduced by the two transactions shed made. Thats a normal way for an account to operate because when a transaction is made, the account is checked to make sure there are 
sufficient funds in it. They are then removed from the available balance because those funds 
have already been spent. 
Usually, the merchant would complete the process and the funds would eventually credit 
their account. That didnt happen here and for a number of reasons, the transactions didnt 
fully complete, so they were then made available again as part of the balance on Ms As 
account.
On this occasion there wouldnt be an obvious credit because the funds hadnt fully left the 
account. So, whilst I accept that Barclays could have done better, I havent seen any 
evidence to support Ms As assertion that shes somehow out of pocket. 
When Ms A brought this to the attention of Barclays, they asked her to go over her 
statements and provide information concerning the loss she was claiming. Ms A thinks 
Barclays were rude to her and it was their responsibility to check her accounts. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to ask Ms A to point out why she thought shed 
lost money. Barclays couldnt see any loss, so it could only have been Ms A who was able to 
explain why she thought she was out of pocket. I havent seen any evidence that would lead 
me to conclude that Barclays were rude to her and asking her to check her account was 
appropriate in these particular circumstances.
When Barclays eventually wrote to Ms A, they asked her to complete several forms to 
declare whether the transactions were either genuine or fraudulent. Those letters stated that 
any genuine transactions would be debited from the account three days after the response 
was received. Whilst I understand that Ms A was caught out when her account had less 
money than she thought it should have, Barclays had advised her this would happen. 
Overall, I think that Barclays service could have been better, but Ms A hasnt lost any funds 
as a result of either the fraudulent payment or the two genuine transactions. I think Barclays 
offer of £120 compensation is both fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Barclays have already paid £70 to Ms A and should now pay Ms A a further £50 which 
theyve previously offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC and theyre 
now required to settle the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman