DRN-3747571
The complaint
Ms J has complained about the way in which Bank of Scotland plc put right the mis-sale of a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The Official Receiver is also party to the case.
What happened
Bank of Scotland found that theyd mis-sold a PPI policy to Ms J and her ex-partner.
Bank of Scotland paid Ms Js share of the compensation to the Official Receiver, as Ms J 
had been made bankrupt. Whereas Ms J says they paid her ex-partners share of the 
compensation to him directly.
Ms J says her ex-partner had also been made bankrupt, so she felt this was unfair. She 
wants Bank of Scotland to pay her share of the compensation a second time, but this time to 
her directly, in addition to the money they already paid the Official Receiver. She also said 
that the Official Receiver hadnt received the payment anyway.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Ms J 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Ms J went through a difficult time, and that she feels very strongly 
about this matter. I appreciate that shes been candid and open with our service, and in her 
circumstances I appreciate where shes coming from.
I do need to explain, though, that in this case I can only look at what happened with Ms Js 
share of the redress  not any other customers. So in this decision, I cannot investigate what 
happened with the ex-partner, I cannot make any findings on whether Bank of Scotland did 
or should have paid the ex-partner, and I cannot tell Bank of Scotland how to fix any alleged 
error with the ex-partners share. I do not have the power to consider those things in a case 
brought by Ms J. I can only consider what happened with Ms Js share of the redress.
Ms J was made bankrupt, the compensation relates to a PPI policy she took out before the 
bankruptcy, and the Official Receiver confirmed that they have an interest in Ms Js share of 
the compensation. So it was correct for Ms Js share to go to the Official Receiver. Bank of 
Scotland did nothing wrong there.
Again, I dont know what happened with the ex-partners share. Its possible that Bank of 
Scotland paid the wrong party, or its possible that something else happened  for example, 
his trustee may not have declared an interest in his share for whatever reason.
But even if Bank of Scotland did make a mistake with the ex-partners share, the way to put 
that right would be to fix the mistake, such as by getting his share to the right party. It would 
not be right for us to make Bank of Scotland do the same error again with another customer.
Ms J argued that Bank of Scotland had set a precedent by paying her ex-partner directly. 
But mistakes do not set a precedent in the way she suggested  really, they do the opposite. 
Because generally speaking, if a bank makes a mistake, we expect them to put the mistake 
right and to avoid making the same mistake again. We do not require them to keep making 
the same mistake with other customers  that would be unreasonable.
For example, if a bank accidentally closed a customers account, we would not then require 
them to close all their other customers accounts because theyd set some sort of precedent. 
Again, wed broadly want them to do the opposite: to undo the mistake and to hopefully not 
make the same mistake again.
As I said before, I dont have any power to look into what happened with the ex-partners 
share of the compensation, so I dont know if a mistake was made there or not. But even if a 
mistake was made, the correct action would be for the mistake to be sorted out. Whereas it 
would not be correct for me to tell Bank of Scotland to keep making the same errors with 
other customers. And again, if Bank of Scotland made a mistake with the ex-partners share, 
then that would need to be sorted out between the ex-partner, his trustee, and Bank of 
Scotland  I would not be able to consider it in this case brought by Ms J.
Ms J argued that she should be double-paid because the amount is small to Bank of 
Scotland but large to her. I understand her perspective, but we decide cases based on 
whats fair, not based on how wealthy each party is. And it would be unfair and unreasonable 
for me to make Bank of Scotland pay out twice the amount of compensation they actually 
need to, just because they allegedly got something wrong in someone elses case, when 
theyve made no substantial error in this case. I would have no grounds to do that. I should 
also point out that even if Bank of Scotland paid out Ms Js share a second time, it would still 
relate to a PPI policy from before her bankruptcy and so it would still normally need to go to 
the Official Receiver rather than Ms J directly.
Lastly, I understand there was some confusion about whether Bank of Scotland had paid the 
Official Receiver Ms Js share or not. We sent the Official Receiver some further details to 
help them locate the payment, and they have now confirmed that they did in fact receive the 
redress from Bank of Scotland for Ms Js case. So I consider that matter resolved.
So while I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms J, and while it is not my intention to 
disappoint her, I cannot fairly tell Bank of Scotland to pay her share a second time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Official 
Receiver and Ms J to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman