DRN-3966107
The complaint
Mr Y complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly closed his accounts. Hes also 
unhappy about the service he received in trying to organise access to the money in his 
accounts. 
What happened
Mr Y had five accounts with NatWest.
In October 2022,  NatWest reviewed Mr Ys accounts. Following this NatWest decided to 
close all of Mr Ys account and wrote to him giving him 60 days notice that he needed to 
make alternative banking arrangements. NatWest closed Mr Ys accounts in December 
2022.
Mr Y complained to NatWest about the closure of his accounts and asked the bank why it no 
longer wanted him a s customer. He pointed that that he had been a loyal customer of the 
bank for nearly forty years and had always maintained his accounts properly. He explained 
that the closure of his accounts had caused him financial difficulties and impacted the 
development of a business he was setting up in the UK. He pointed out that he had built up a 
long standing banking history with NatWest and kept the bank up to date with all information 
relevant to him over the years. And that he needed the account as it made life much easier 
for him as he lives overseas. So, he felt the bank had treated him unfairly when it had closed 
his accounts. And asked NatWest to reopen his accounts. 
NatWest didnt provide Mr Y with much information. The bank said it hadnt done anything 
wrong and had acted in line with the terms of the account and relevant regulations when it 
had closed Mr Ys accounts. It wasnt willing to reopen Mr Ys accounts.
Mr Y wasnt happy with the banks response and brought his complaint to our service where 
one of our adjudicators looked into it. He said that he wasnt able to access his funds in his 
account. Mr Y explained that at the time NatWest decided to close his accounts he was 
living overseas, trying to pay a relatives tuition fees, and set up a business in the UK. So, 
this made everything more challenging especially as he wasnt able to easily sort out new 
accounts from overseas. Overall, he said that the whole experience had been upsetting and 
stressful for him. And that NatWest discriminated against him based on his nationality and 
address when it closed his accounts. 
 
The adjudicator said NatWest hadnt done anything wrong when it had closed Mr Ys 
accounts. She said that the bank had given Mr Y enough notice to transfer the funds in his 
account out before the accounts closed. And it had explained that if he didnt do so he would 
need to complete a form to access his balances after the accounts were closed. 
Mr Y disagreed. He said 60 days wasnt enough notice given he was living overseas. And 
the bank should have given him more notice, especially as he was such a long standing, 
good customer of the bank. He maintains that the bank had discriminated against him, and 
the bank should provide a proper explanation for why it no longer wanted him as a customer.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr Y feels very strongly about his complaint. Thats clear from whats hes said to 
us and to NatWest. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ys frustration, its important to point out that the 
only thing in question here is whether NatWest has done what it should have done. And I 
think it has. Ill explain why.
Firstly, banks are entitled to decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing 
business with a customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment 
for deciding whether to continue providing accounts. Providing an account to a customer is a 
commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has the 
commercial freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they 
shouldnt close an account without proper reason, for instance of unfair bias or unlawful 
discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly.
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if Mr Y decided to stop banking with NatWest, he wouldnt 
have to explain why. Based on what NatWest has shared with me, Im satisfied their actions 
were reasonable in the circumstances. And the banks decision to stop providing Mr Y with 
banking facilities was reached legitimately and fairly. 
NatWest can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. NatWest have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Ys account. The terms explain that the bank can close the account with notice. Ive 
considered the full circumstances of this complaint and I agree NatWest were entitled to 
close the account. Im pleased to see they gave Mr Y the full 60 day notice period to allow 
him to arrange other banking facilities. Ive considered what Mr Y says about being overseas 
and due to this it was more challenging for him to do organise another bank account. But I 
think two months notice was a reasonable length of time for Mr Y to arrange another bank 
account and access his funds in his accounts.
Mr Y has also said he had a lot of trouble trying to gain access to the balances of his 
accounts. And that he believed he would have to travel from overseas to sort things out 
which would be at a cost and inconvenience to him. I can see that NatWest explained to Mr 
Y in its notice to close letter, that if he didnt transfer his balance before his accounts closed 
on 28 December 2022, he would need to complete a funds release form. Its not clear why 
Mr Y didnt move his money in the time he had  its possible he thought bringing a 
complaint to our service would negate the need for him to do this. But this isnt the case. I 
note too that NatWest have provided Mr Y with the paperwork he needs to complete to 
access his funds on more than one occasion, both before and after he brought his complaint 
to us. And it has also arranged for him to move his funds via its online system. So, Im 
satisfied that NatWest did what it should have and have tried to assist Mr Y to gain access to 
his funds.
I understand Mr Y wants NatWest to explain the reason it reviewed and closed his accounts.  
It cant be pleasant being told youre no longer wanted as a customer. Especially so, given 
how long Mr Y had been a customer of NatWest. But NatWest doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. Its under no obligation to tell Mr Y the 
reasons behind the account review and closure, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant 
say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr Y this information. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require it do so.
I know Mr Y says that he is a victim of discrimination by NatWest. And believes the bank 
closed his accounts on the grounds of his nationality and where he resides. While I can 
appreciate this is his perspective, it is not my role to decide whether discrimination has taken 
place  only the courts have the power to decide this. I have, however, considered the 
relevant law in relation to what Mr Y has said when deciding what I think is the fair and 
reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering the provisions of The Equality Act 
2010 (The Act). And after looking at all the evidence, Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
this was the case. So, I havent found that NatWest decided to close the accounts for an 
improper reason. I acknowledge what Mr Y says about others having similar experiences. 
But I cant comment on that. I am only concerned with the facts of this complaint. 
In summary, I appreciate that the closure of Mr Ys accounts caused Mr Y a great deal of 
trouble and upset. The timing of NatWests actions was unfortunate. Mr Y was overseas, 
wanted to pay tuition fees and was in the process of setting up a new business. So, I can 
understand why he found this experience with NatWest stressful and upsetting. But as Ive 
already explained Im satisfied that NatWest closed the accounts line with the terms and 
conditions. So, I dont believe NatWest acted inappropriately and treated Mr Y unfairly in 
taking the actions it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman