DRN-2578405
The complaint
Mr M complains about six loans that he took out with Western Circle Limited, trading as 
Cashfloat, (WCL), which he said were unaffordable. 
What happened
Mr M was given six instalment loans by WCL between February 2016 and December 2019. 
Loans 1, 3 and 5 were each repayable by two monthly repayments and Loans 2, 4 and 6 
were each repayable by three monthly repayments. All the loans have been repaid. 
A summary of the loans taken out by Mr M is shown below:
Loan 
number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan 
amount 
1. 3/2/16 31/3/16 £250
2. 3/5/16 29/7/16 £300
3. 14/8/16 30/9/16 £200
4. 9/4/18 29/6/18 £250
5. 19/7/19 30/9/19 £400
6. 30/12/19 28/3/20 £400
Mr M said that WCL had provided him with unaffordable payday loans which resulted in a 
spiral of borrowing to pay them back without making adequate affordability checks.
WCL said in its final response letter that it had carried out a thorough review of Mr Ms 
account and determined that it had followed all its processes and conducted a 
creditworthiness and affordability assessment on each loan application made by Mr M. Its 
calculations were based on the income and expenditure information that Mr M provided in 
each of his loan applications together with information about Mr Ms monthly credit 
commitments received from credit reference agencies. This demonstrated that his net 
monthly income of between £1,400 and £1,900 left him with sufficient funds to comfortably 
cover the agreed repayments on each of his loans, without jeopardising his existing credit
commitments and priority living expenses.
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ms complaint about all his loans should be upheld. 
He noted that the information WCL gathered prior to Loan 1 showed that Mr M was having 
problems managing his money. The checks showed that Mr M had several short term and 
unsecured loans. The adjudicator said that WCL ought to have realised it was unlikely        
Mr M wouldve been able to sustainably repay Loan 1 and his subsequent two loans. By 
Loan 4, which was after a considerable break from when loan 3 had been repaid, the 
information WCL gathered prior to Loan 4, once more showed that Mr M was having
problems managing his money. The adjudicator noted again that Mr M had several short 
term and unsecured loans. In these circumstances, he thought that WCL ought to have 
realised it was unlikely Mr M wouldve been able to sustainably repay Loan 4 and his 
subsequent two loans.
WCL disagreed and said that Mr M had received three small loan cycles with it. The first 
cycle was for three loans, the second cycle was for one loan and the third for two loans.     
Mr Ms level of borrowing was low, and he was handling his borrowing in a responsible 
manner and did not at any point inform it that he was financially struggling to meet his 
repayments. It believed the checks carried out for Mr Ms lending were reasonable and 
proportionate and in accordance with the requirements of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA).
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to WCL on 6 January 2021. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when WCL lent to Mr M the regulator was the FCA and relevant regulations and 
guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC contained 
guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
CONC said that a lender needed to check that a consumer could afford to meet his 
repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant a consumer being able to meet his 
repayments out of his normal income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks WCL needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mr M would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggested that 
the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed 
checks
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
WCL had told us that its affordability assessment required Mr M to give it full details of his 
monthly income and outgoings. It tested Mr Ms declared outgoings using statistical data and 
if the data produced a higher figure, it used the higher outgoings figure in its assessment. WCL also took account of the outstanding borrowings and other credit balances stated by  
Mr M and calculated an up to date monthly repayment figure for each credit item. Its 
affordability check only approved a loan if the total of all Mr Ms monthly credit repayments 
together with all his other living expenses, left him with sufficient disposable income to 
comfortably afford his loan repayments to it. As part of this affordability assessment, it 
ensured that Mr M had a reasonable buffer of disposable income over and above his 
expected living expenses and credit commitments. WCL confirmed that Mr M had sufficient 
disposable income to make the repayments on his loans as well as to pay his essential living 
costs and repayments on previous outstanding credit.
WCL had provided this Service with its detailed credit checks for all the loans except Loan 5. 
We hadnt received a credit report from Mr M. So, I couldnt say that there was anything on 
that report that I thought should have concerned WCL.
Id thought about whether WCLs checks were proportionate for the loans. Id noted that for 
Loan 1, Mr M needed to make a highest monthly repayment of around £167 to repay the 
loan over two months. 
It seemed on the face of it that the repayments would have looked relatively modest 
compared to Mr Ms declared disposable income. However, I thought the information WCL 
gathered should have raised concerns. 
WCL had told us about the checks it did before lending Loan 1 to Mr M. It had asked for his 
income which Mr M had declared as £1,400 and for his outgoings. WCL had asked for 
details of Mr Ms expenditure on food, utilities, rent, travel, other credit commitments and 
loan repayments. These totalled £500. Mr M had declared credit commitments of £25 but no 
loan repayments. WCL said that it had gained additional information from a credit reference 
agency and it had increased Mr Ms outgoings. It said that meant Mr M had £363 disposable 
income to cover his monthly repayment of around £167. 
I didnt agree with WCLs calculations. I could see on WCLs credit checks that Mr M had two 
relatively recent outstanding short term loans and two outstanding unsecured loans. I 
thought it likely that the unsecured loans were also short term loans. Mr M also had a loan 
agreement from a telecommunications supplier on which he was paying £20. Id noted that 
the current repayment on one of the unsecured loans was overdue. Mr M also had an 
additional short term loan which was made delinquent around five months earlier with a 
balance outstanding of £200. Even if I ignored this last historic loan, I could see that the 
monthly repayments required on the next payments for Mr Ms current loans totalled £723. 
This suggested that Mr M had a disposable income of around £197 which would have left 
him with around £30 disposable income after making his monthly repayment. I thought there 
was a foreseeable risk here that Mr M wouldnt have been able to meet his repayments 
without difficulty. It wouldnt have taken very much unexpected or seasonal expense to leave 
Mr M in the position of having to borrow further to meet his loan repayments.
I also thought that WCL should have realised that Mr Ms borrowing shown in its credit 
checks painted a picture of someone who might be struggling with debt. The credit checks 
provided WCL with sufficient information to show that Mr M was having problems managing 
his money and might struggle to make the loan repayments. So, I didnt think that it was 
reasonable for WCL to lend Loan 1 to Mr M.
The situation shown in WCLs credit checks before Loans 2 and 3 didnt improve. The credit 
checks before Loan 2 showed that Mr M had taken out three short term loans and two 
unsecured loans in a period of around two months before his application for Loan 2 which were all still outstanding. Three loans totalling around £500 had been borrowed in the 
previous four weeks. 
And before Loan 3, WCLs credit checks showed that Mr M had two recent short term loans 
and around eight relatively recent unsecured loans (which were likely to be short term loans) 
outstanding. The current payment on one of the unsecured loans was overdue. And the 
repayments of these other debts used up a large amount of Mr Ms income.  
In addition, there were a high number of credit searches before both loans which suggested 
that Mr M was attempting to get further credit. I again thought WCLs credit checks 
suggested that Mr M was having serious difficulties managing his finances and that his 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. And WCL should have realised that despite 
what Mr M had told it about his finances, it wasnt likely that he would be able to repay  
Loans 2 and 3 without undue difficulty or without having to borrow further. So, I didnt think 
WCL should have lent Loans 2 and 3 to Mr M.
Id noted that Mr M took out Loan 4 around 18 months after repaying Loan 3. I thought the 
gap between Mr Ms repayment of Loan 3 and taking out Loan 4 was sufficient for WCL to 
have looked at Mr Ms application for Loan 4 afresh and to have effectively treated him as a 
new customer at that time. I could see that the loan amount was less than hed previously 
borrowed and that both his income and expenses had increased. 
Id again reviewed WCLs credit checks. Mr M had a larger number of short term loans and 
unsecured loans than WCLs previous checks. The checks showed that Mr M had five short 
term loans outstanding and five unsecured loans likely to be short term loans outstanding. 
Two short term loans and an unsecured loan totalling over £1,200 had been taken out in the 
previous month. Id again thought that WCLs credit checks suggested that Mr M was likely 
having significant difficulties managing his finances and that it wasnt likely that he would be 
able to repay Loan 4 without undue difficulty or without having to borrow further. So, as a 
responsible lender, I said that WCL shouldnt have lent Loan 4 to Mr M.
Id noted that Mr M took out Loan 5 around a year after repaying Loan 4. I again thought the 
gap between Mr Ms repayment of Loan 4 and taking out Loan 5 was a sufficient amount of 
time for WCL to have assumed that Mr M had overcome whatever the financial 
circumstances were that led him to take out high-cost credit. So, I thought it could have 
looked at Mr Ms application for Loan 5 afresh and could have effectively treated him as a 
new customer at that time. 
Mr M had declared his income as £1,600 and his expenses as £950. WCL hadnt provided 
this Service with its credit checks before Loan 5. But its credit checks before Loan 6 referred 
to historic debt of £88 from at least two years prior to the application for Loan 5 and one 
short term loan outstanding at the time of Mr Ms loan application for Loan 5. I didnt think 
there was enough in this information for WCL to think this loan would have been 
unaffordable for Mr M. And I didnt think the monthly repayment amounts of around £294 
were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr M financial difficulty. 
So, given Mr Ms repayment amounts and what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for WCL to have asked him for the amount 
of information that would have been needed to show the loan was unsustainable. 
So, overall, I couldnt say it was unfair for WCL to have provided Mr M with Loan 5.
Mr M took out Loan 6 around three months after hed repaid Loan 5. The loan was again for 
£400 but repayable over three months so the repayments were lower and around £199.     
Mr M had declared his income as £1,600 although WCL had checked Mr Ms payslip and noted that his income was £1,488. Mr Ms expenses were £750. WCLs credit checks 
showed that Mr M had no other outstanding loans. He had three credit cards and the 
payments on these were all up to date. Again, I didnt think there was enough in the 
information for WCL to have thought that Loan 6 would have been unaffordable for Mr M. 
And I didnt think the monthly repayment amounts of around £199 were so large that it was 
obvious they wouldve caused Mr M financial difficulty. 
Given Mr Ms repayment amounts and what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for WCL to have ask Mr M for the amount 
of information that would have been needed to show the loan was unsustainable. 
So, I didnt think WCL was wrong to give Loan 6 to Mr M.
I appreciated that my findings about Loans 5 and 6 were likely to disappoint Mr M, but I 
hoped my explanation would help him understand why Id reached this conclusion.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr M or WCL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part and say that WCL needed to pay Mr M some 
compensation relating to Loans 1 to 4 as set out below. 
In deciding what redress WCL should fairly pay in this case Id thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent Loans 1 to 4 to Mr M, as I was satisfied it ought not to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M might have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, Mr M might 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he might have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which might or might not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Id seen in this case, I certainly didnt 
think I could fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, I was not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce WCLs liability in this case for what I was 
satisfied it had done wrong and should put right.
putting things right  what WCL needs to do
1. Refund the interest and fees Mr M paid for Loans 1 to 4; 
2. Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; 
3. Remove any adverse information about Loans 1 to 4 from Mr Ms credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL must give   
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr M responded to the provisional decision to say that he accepted it and didnt have any 
further information to provide.WCL responded to the provisional decision to say it disagreed with my findings for Loans 1 
and 4. It noted that these loans were the first loans in a new lending cycle. It had further 
reviewed Mr Ms credit file and said that there were a number of accounts that were 
duplicated in Mr Ms credit profile, showing up in different sections of his profile. It also said 
that credit reference agencies can often report monthly payments figures incorrectly. WCL 
also provided information from its credit check which it said demonstrated that Loans 1 and 4 
were affordable.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I note the information provided by WCL from its credit checks before Loan 1. I can see that 
WCL said that some of the monthly payments shown in its checks were duplicated or 
incorrect and that the total loan repayment amount was £305. I can see that this amount was 
lower than Id calculated in my provisional decision. And, I can see WCL felt that Loan 1 was 
affordable as Mr M had a disposable income of £623. But this amount seems unlikely given 
that Mr M wanted to borrow £250. And I think WCL ought to have queried why someone with 
such a relatively large proportion of available income would need to borrow expensive credit.
I also note that WCL said that one of Mr Ms accounts wasnt actually overdue and another 
was historically delinquent. Nevertheless, I can still see that Mr M had five outstanding loans 
all taken out relatively recently within the 15 weeks prior to his application for Loan 1. And it 
was likely that most of these, if not all, were short term loans. So, Im still persuaded that 
WCLs credit checks provided it with sufficient information to show that Mr M was having 
problems managing his money and might struggle to make the loan repayments. 
So, I still dont think that it was reasonable for WCL to have lent Loan 1 to Mr M.
I note the information provided by WCL from its credit checks before Loan 4. I again note 
that WCL said that some of the monthly payments shown in the checks were duplicated or 
incorrect and that two of the loans had been repaid. WCL said that the total loan repayment 
amount was £1,016. And, I can see that it felt that Loan 4 was affordable as Mr M had a 
disposable income of £214.
Nevertheless, I can still see that Mr M had ten outstanding loans most of which had been 
taken out relatively recently in the four months prior to his loan application for Loan 4. And it 
was likely that at least five of these loans were short term loans. So, Im still persuaded that 
WCLs credit checks suggested that Mr M was likely having significant difficulties managing 
his finances and that it wasnt likely that he would be able to repay Loan 4 without undue 
difficulty or without having to borrow further. So, I still dont think WCL should have lent  
Loan 4 to Mr M.
In addition, I note that WCL felt that its checks demonstrated that Loans 1 and 4 were 
affordable. But WCL was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his 
loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
It follows that I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. So, I uphold this complaint in part and require WCL to pay Mr M some 
compensation and to take the steps set out below.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Western Circle Limited, trading as Cashfloat, to:
1. Refund the interest and fees Mr M paid for Loans 1 to 4; 
2. Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; 
3. Remove any adverse information about Loans 1 to 4 from Mr Ms credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL must give   
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman