DRN-3748033
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) PLC (BoI) wont allow him to cancel a buy to let 
(BTL) mortgage deal he accepted, although hed understood that there was a cooling off 
period, and also said he cancelled within this period. 
What happened
Mr K accepted a fixed interest rate mortgage offer for his BTL property from BoI on 30 June 
2022. Mr K said the terms and conditions of the deal clearly stated there would be a cooling 
off period where the fixed rate deal can be terminated if he changed his mind. And this could 
be done even after accepting the offer. Mr K said that hed accepted BoIs offer because of 
this condition.
BoI processed Mr Ks acceptance of this offer on the same day, and applied his new rate 
from the very next day, 1 July 2022. Mr K said he wasnt expecting his rate to change so 
quickly, because of the cooling off period which was in the terms and conditions of the deal. 
Mr K said after a week, he changed his mind, and tried to terminate the offer, but BoI 
wouldnt let him cancel. Mr K said he had a right to do that, he wanted BoI to honour this. 
Mr K said hed got a better offer elsewhere, and he wanted to accept this instead. He said if 
he couldnt do that, he would be in financial difficulties.
BoI said it wouldnt let Mr K cancel. It sent us the offer that Mr K had accepted. It wanted to 
draw our attention to the following provisions - 
Offer acceptance
You need to accept this offer if you want to go ahead.
We will process the change to your new interest rate in line with the timescales set out 
in condition V09003. If you want the new rate to take effect in a different month you 
must tell us this when you accept this offer.
Your right to withdraw
You are free to decline this offer but we may not refund any fees you have already paid 
to us
If you accept this offer you can still withdraw from the contract providing you tell us you 
have changed your mind before the 19th of the month prior to the new rate becoming 
effective (see special conditions). On or after the 19th the rate switch is agreed and you 
can only repay the mortgage subject also to payment of any fees and early repayment 
charges shown in the mortgage illustration.
The relevant condition is set out overleaf -
V09003 If you accept this offer and we receive all additional items requested 
before the 19th then we will start charging interest at the new interest 
rate with effect from the 1st of the following month; 
on or after the 19th we may still process the change to your interest 
rate so that it is effective from the 1st of the following month but we 
cannot guarantee to do this and the new rate may not apply until the 
1st day of the month after the following month.
If your mortgage is within a promotional period, your new rate will take effect 
either as described above or, if later, with effect from the 1st of the month 
following your Early Repayment Charge period ending.
BoI said that Mr Ks offer had already taken effect by the time he tried to cancel. And it said 
that if he was unsure of the conditions of the offer, then it would have expected him to 
contact it before accepting the offer. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Mr Ks mortgage offer 
only gave him a right to withdraw before the 19th of the month prior to the new rate 
becoming effective. But in this case, the new rate became effective almost right away, and 
when Mr K asked to cancel, the rate was already in place. Mr K thought there would be a 
cooling off period, but lenders arent required to offer those. And his mortgage offer did say 
that if he accepted after the 19th of the month, the offer might be applied from the first of the 
following month. So she didnt think BoI had to let Mr K cancel.
Mr K didnt agree. He said BoI hadnt clearly explained the offer condition. He said that made 
someone like him, not a professional solicitor, confused, so he thought he could still cancel 
the offer. Mr K wanted to know why BoI hadnt explained the position clearly. Mr K said he 
had a different offer which would allow him to borrow more, and if he wasnt able to take that 
he would lose his house. It wasnt fair to ask him to pay a 3% early repayment charge to 
cancel the BoI mortgage. 
This case then came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
When Mr K first complained to our service, he said the terms of the offer clearly stated there 
was a cooling off period, and that he had the right to cancel the offer even after he had 
accepted. I dont think thats what the terms of the offer actually say. I think, as BoI has set 
out, the terms only give Mr K a very limited right to cancel, in a situation where his offer 
hasnt yet been applied. 
Mr K then said he thought that the terms of the offer were misleading. I do think that what 
BoI has set out could have been clearer. But Im afraid I dont think that changes the position 
here. Thats for two reasons.
Firstly, this is a buy to let mortgage. Its not a mortgage on Mr Ks home. He lives 
somewhere else. And that means this mortgage isnt regulated, in the way that a mortgage for someones home is. So the provisions which require lenders to ensure that their 
communications to borrowers are clear, fair and not misleading dont apply directly to this 
mortgage. And I dont think its reasonable to apply those provisions by analogy here, in 
order to overturn the agreement that BoI has reached with Mr K. Mortgages like this one are 
for investors, and I think its reasonable for BoI to expect that investors will apply a 
somewhat different level of analysis to a mortgage offer. So I dont think its unfair, here, for 
BoI to have written its offer to Mr K in this way. 
And secondly, Mr K didnt say that he hadnt understood this mortgage offer, when he first 
contacted us. He said he had understood it, and he told us there were clear provisions 
allowing him to withdraw. And whilst I do think that BoIs offer could have been expressed in 
a more straightforward way, I dont think its reasonable for Mr K to have concluded, from the 
offer Ive seen, that he had a clear right to withdraw, which he was still able to exercise even 
after BoI had applied the rate hed accepted. 
For those reasons, I dont think BoI has to allow Mr K to cancel this mortgage agreement 
now without paying an early repayment charge. I know that Mr K will be disappointed, but I 
dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman