DRN-4180289
The complaint
Ms A and Mr F have complained that AWP P&C SA failed to tell them they had a Home 
Emergency (HE) policy which meant they didnt make claims under the policy they were 
entitled to make. 
As Mr F is the lead complainant for ease Ill refer to him in my decision.
What happened
Mr F and Ms A have held a Home Emergency policy with AWP along with a home insurance 
policy under company branded H for a number of years. Each policy has its own 
underwriter - so this may not be the same, as the policies are separate products. 
Mr F says he contacted either H or the underwriter of their home insurance policy as in 
October 2022 he had a pest problem and wanted to see if he could make a claim. Mr F says 
he was advised that he couldnt claim under his home insurance policy. 
In November 2022 Mr F had an issue with a boiler. Based on what he was told in October 
2022, he didnt try to make a claim as he believed he didnt hold a HE policy. 
Later in November 2022, Mr F received a renewal invite for their HE policy from company H 
on behalf of the underwriter AWP. Mr F told us he discovered he and Ms A held a HE policy 
through their bank records.
Mr F complained to AWP. But AWP said it hadnt done anything wrong. It didnt know Mr F 
had wanted to make claims. 
Mr F remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted his claims to be 
met and for AWP to reimburse him for the costs he paid to deal with the pest problem and to 
repair the boiler. 
Our Investigator was satisfied that AWP hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr F disagrees. In summary he says it isnt unreasonable to think that when he called 
company H about his home insurance policy, it should have known to redirect him to the 
underwriter of his HE policy. He believes AWP are wriggling out of their responsibilities. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP has provided a copy of the renewal and welcome letters sent to Mr F and Ms A since 
2020. And Mr F has provided a copy of the renewal invite sent by AWP for his HE policy on 
18 October 2021. So Im satisfied that Mr F and Ms A were made reasonably aware that 
they held a HE policy. 
AWP has no record of Mr F contacting it to make a claim under their HE policy before he 
raised a complaint in November 2022 - after he received a renewal invite for the 2022 - 2023 
policy year. 
My role is to consider whether the underwriter of the HE policy acted reasonably or not. I 
cant make a finding about company H or the underwriter of the home insurance policy as 
Mr F told us they are separate to AWP as the underwriter of this policy. Mr F raised his 
complaint against AWP. 
From what Ive seen, Mr F was in receipt of policy documentation showing they held a HE 
policy with AWP and contact details for that policy were available in the event of making a 
claim. So I dont hold AWP responsible for what Mr F was told by company H or the 
underwriter of his home insurance policy when he contacted them about a pest claim, which 
led him to believe he didnt hold a HE policy. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F. But this means Im not upholding his complaint. As the 
Investigator explained, if Mr F is unhappy with the information he received from H or the 
underwriter of his home insurance policy, he can complain directly to them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman