DRN-2763807
The complaint
Mr K and Mr S complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in Mr Ks sole name in 1999.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint last month. In summary, I said I thought 
the policy was mis-sold because Mr K and Mr S, between them, had exceptionally generous 
work related benefits, income protection insurance and other sources of income. Taken as a 
whole, I didnt think they would have been unable to meet their mortgage payments even if 
Mr K couldnt work. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr K and Mr S s case. I have also taken account of 
the law and good industry practice at the time the PPI policy was sold.
Lloyds said it now agreed the PPI was mis-sold and it would pay the compensation 
recommended.
Mr K and Mr S sent me some additional information  mostly confirmation of their income, 
etc. I dont need to comment on that as Id already recommended their complaint be upheld.
With no new information that impacts my provisional decision, I see no reason to change my 
conclusions.
Putting things right
Lloyds should now put Mr K and Mr S in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt
taken out PPI. The policy has been cancelled, so Lloyds should:
Pay Mr K and Mr S the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr K and Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give
Mr K and Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay the 
compensation outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman