DRN-2594772
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold 
her a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Miss M bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan in June 2008. This included an MPPI 
policy along with life and critical illness cover. She purchased the policy during a meeting 
with an advisor from Halifax in one of its branches.
Miss M say Halifax mis-sold the policy to her. She says at the time she needed the mortgage 
and would have signed anything to get it. She says Halifax didnt explain what MPPI was to 
her properly. She adds she had excellent sickness cover from her employer and didnt need 
it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. As she doesnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Miss Ms complaint and I will explain why.
Miss M says Halifax didnt explain what MPPI was to her properly including that she had a 
choice to have it or not. So, I have looked into this.
First of all, I can see that this MPPI was sold separately from her mortgage. From the 
information provided by Halifax, it looks like this MPPI policy was set up to cover a mortgage 
from a different lender. So, I think because of this, Miss M would have been aware that she 
didnt need to obtain the MPPI cover to obtain finance, because her mortgage was taken out 
with another finance provider.
In addition, Ive also been able to see some documentation that was used by the advisor in 
the meeting at the time of sale and the MPPI policy is presented as optional on these, 
including a letter that says, thank you for choosing your optional Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan. There is also a demands and needs form that demonstrates that a conversation was 
had about the MPPI policy with a series of questions asked by the advisor to Miss M. After 
seeing this and considering what I have already concluded, I am persuaded Miss M was 
given a choice to have the MPPI policy. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI policy to Miss M during the meeting 
and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that this was 
the case. So, as it did recommend the policy to Miss M, it had to ensure during the sale that 
the policy was suitable for Miss Ms needs. 
After reviewing the information provided, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was unsuitable 
for Miss M based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Miss M says she had 6 
months full and 6 months half sick pay, but the policy would also have paid in addition to the 
provisions she would have had. The benefit would have been of use to Miss M during a 
difficult time as she could have used their provisions to pay for other expenses. I think, on 
balance, Miss M had a need for this cover for any extended period of unemployment or 
sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term that 
would make the policy unsuitable for her either.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy that Miss 
M took out and I can see on the documentation provided that these costs were presented in 
a clear way. But even if they werent, I think Miss M would have proceeded with the policy 
anyway for the reasons I have already given.
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold                
Miss Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman