DRN-3350767
The complaint
Mr N complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr N suffers from a serious mental health illness. He has been assisted in making his 
complaint by members of his community medical team. But in this decision, for ease, I will 
generally refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Mr N himself.
Mr N was given a loan by Loans 2 Go in August 2019. He borrowed £1,200 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 18 monthly instalments. Mr N has faced problems repaying his loan and a 
balance remained outstanding when he made his complaint.
Mr Ns complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the results 
of Loans 2 Gos checks should have led the lender to probe deeper into Mr Ns finances. 
And she thought the additional checks would have shown the lender that Mr N was facing 
serious problems managing his money. So she didnt think the loan should have been 
agreed and she asked Loans 2 Go to put things right for Mr N.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr N accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ns complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave this loan to Mr N required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr N. In 
practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mr N undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mr N. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr N.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr N before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. It then checked what Mr N had said using 
an income verification service. And it checked his credit file to assess how much he was 
repaying to other creditors and how hed managed credit in the past. As a result of its checks 
Loans 2 Go reduced Mr Ns declared income by around 40%, and increased his declared 
expenditure by around 15%. Overall his disposable income was reduced by almost two 
thirds.
Mr N was entering into a significant commitment with Loans 2 Go. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of two years. So I think it would be right for Loans 2 Go to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ns financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. For the reasons I will go on to explain I dont 
think that the checks it did were enough. I think it would have been proportionate for 
Loans 2 Go to independently check the true state of Mr Ns finances before agreeing the 
loan. 
The loan that Loans 2 Go gave to Mr N was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Its rules relating to consumer credit are contained in the CONC section of its 
handbook. In particular I think that section 5.2A.36 is relevant here, and says;
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement 
where the firm knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the customer has not 
been truthful in completing the application in relation to information relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment.In the circumstances here Im not persuaded that the above regulation means that it would 
have been necessary for Loans 2 Go to simply refuse Mr Ns loan application. Instead I think 
it might have been reasonable for Loans 2 Go to seek additional information from Mr N so 
that it could validate what was happening with its finances. It would be aware that the checks 
it had done showed a significant difference to what Mr N had declared, about his income in 
particular. So I think further checks would have been appropriate here and Loans 2 Go could 
then have allowed Mr N to correct the information hed provided as part of his application.
But although I think Loans 2 Go needed to do additional checks, that in itself doesnt mean 
that Mr Ns complaint should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded that what I consider to 
be appropriate checks would have shown Loans 2 Go that Mr N couldnt sustainably afford 
the loan. So Ive looked at Mr Ns bank statements, and what hes told us about his financial 
situation, to see what better checks would have shown Loans 2 Go.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that 
Loans 2 Go should have carried out. I do think Loans 2 Go needed further information to 
explain the differences between what Mr N said was happening with his finances and what 
its checks had showed. And looking at Mr Ns bank statements is one way of achieving that 
although there are of course many other ways that level of detail could be established. But 
I think that by looking at Mr Ns bank statements I can get a good idea of what better checks 
might have shown.
Mr N told Loans 2 Go that he was self-employed as a music teacher. But the evidence from 
his bank statements suggests that the entirety of Mr Ns income in the months leading up to 
his loan application was from state benefits. He received both Personal Independence 
Payment benefits and Employment and Support Allowance benefits. The receipt of those 
benefits would suggest that Mr N was facing significant challenges with his health and was 
unable to work as a result. And the nature of benefits of this nature should have led 
Loans 2 Go to consider whether it was likely that Mr N would have sufficient disposable 
income to afford what were significant loan repayments that would take more than 25% of 
his income .
Mr Ns bank statements show that he was facing serious problems managing his money. In 
the month before he took the loan he was charged for 8 payments being returned unpaid. 
And he had spent almost half his normal income on what appear to be online gambling 
transactions. From what Mr N has told us, much of that spending arose as a result of his 
mental health problems. I accept that he didnt make Loans 2 Go aware of that illness and so 
it couldnt reasonably take account of it when making its lending decision. But the pattern of 
Mr Ns spending suggested he was facing serious problems with his finances regardless  
I dont think Loans 2 Go needed to be aware of his mental health problems to decide it 
shouldnt lend to him.
So I think the results of better checks would have shown Loans 2 Go that Mr N would be 
unlikely to be able to repay a loan in a sustainable manner. So I dont think Loans 2 Go 
should have given him the loan, and needs to put things right.Putting things right
I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to lend to Mr N in August 2019. So Loans 2 Go 
should;
Remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Mr N made towards this loan as payments towards the capital.
I believe that reworking Mr Ns loan account as Ive directed will result in Mr N 
effectively having made payments above the original capital borrowed. Loans 2 Go 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement. 
But if reworking Mr Ns loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind Loans 2 Go that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr N for the remaining capital.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ns credit file in relation to the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman