DRN-3246689
The complaint
Ms C through a third party complains that Lend Fair Ltd was irresponsible when it lent to her.
What happened
From the information provided, Lend Fair lent Ms C a loan in August 2013. The loan was for 
£5,000 and had a 24-month term. Ms C has fully repaid the loan.
When Ms C complained to Lend Fair, it responded to say Ms C had complained too late 
about the lending. So, Ms C referred her complaint to this service where it was looked at by 
one of our investigators. Our investigator thought the complaint was one we could look into 
but due to the limited information available, he couldnt say Lend Fair acted unfairly by 
providing Ms C with the loan.
Ms C disagreed saying she was on benefits at the time and so the loan should never have 
been lent. As the complaint hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loan was offered.
Lend Fair has said because Ms C complained more than six years after the loan was taken 
out, her complaint has been made too late.
The rules that apply say that Ms C had six years form the date of the event to make a 
complaint. The rules also potentially extend Ms Cs timeline to complain as it also gives her 
three years from the date she should have known she had cause for complaint.
As Ms C complained in June 2020, I agree that she has complained more than six years 
after her loans were lent. I also have to consider whether she has complained more than 
three years after she really should have known she had cause to complain. Based on the 
evidence, I havent seen anything that suggests Ms C knew she should have complained 
more than three years ago. Ms C has said she only became aware she could complain when 
she saw the advert of the third part representatives and spoke to them.
So, I think Ms C complained within three years of when she should have known she had 
cause for complaint and so this complaint is one this service can look at.
The lending decision
Lend Fair should be aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision. At the time of the lending, it was regulated by the Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT) and it was required to carry out proportionate checks and ensure that its 
lending was sustainable for Ms C over the term of the loan.
There is very limited information from both parties from the time the lending decision was 
made. Lend Fair hasnt provided its file and Ms C has been unable to provide details about 
the loan. So, I dont know how much Ms C was due to repay on a monthly basis or what 
Lend Fair knew about her financial circumstances at the time it decided to lend.
Ms C has provided a copy of her bank statements from around the time and has said she 
was on benefits. Ms C being on benefits doesnt automatically mean Lend Fair shouldnt 
have lent to her. And looking at the bank statement she has provided, it isnt possible to 
determine her income and living costs at the time. The bank statements show she was 
repaying a rent to own lender and had another high cost credit which looks like was repaid 
with this loan from Lend Fair. There isnt anything on the bank statements that show Ms C 
was struggling financially and couldnt afford the loan.
On the strength of this information, I cant say Lend Fair was wrong to lend to Ms C at the 
time and Im unable to uphold this complaint based on the information available.
I appreciate that my findings may disappoint Ms C, but I hope my explanation helps her 
understand why Ive reached these conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman