DRN-4361334
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mrs and Mr M hold with Santander UK Plc. The essence 
of the complaint is that during a defined period, the rates of interest Santander charged were 
higher than the mortgage contract allowed it to charge. Mrs and Mr Ms complaint is 
presented by a third party intermediary Ill refer to as C.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr M and Santander; 
theyve been set out in correspondence between both parties. Im also aware that the 
investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint which has been shared with 
all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Instead, Ill provide a brief summary of the key points, in my own words and then focus on 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs and Mr Ms mortgage started in 2001, initially with a lender Ill call A, which later became 
part of Santander. For much of its life, the mortgage had interest rate products attached to 
it, the terms of which specified the rate to be charged. However, during a period between 
1 March 2012 and 2 February 2017, no interest rate product was attached, and instead 
interest was charged at Santanders standard variable rate (SVR). 
Following a data subject access request made to Santander in 2021, C submitted a claim for 
over-charging on Mrs and Mr Ms behalf. The claim was supported by Cs own calculation 
setting out the interest rates it believed Santander should have been applying during the 
defined period. The claim was for the difference between what Santander charged and the 
alternate sum C believed it was entitled to charge, plus statutory interest on the claimed 
overpayments.
Santander rejected the complaint, and it was passed to our service. Our investigators 
opinion was that our remit was confined to looking into the six-year period leading up to the 
start date of the complaint. As the complaint had started on 3 March 2021, he explained that 
this meant his consideration of the claimed over-charging would run from 3 March 2015, 
rather than from 1 March 2012.
In the same document, the investigator also set out his reasons for not recommending the 
complaint be upheld. Briefly, he said Cs audit relied on a notional interest rate that bore no 
relation to Santanders SVR, but in any event, he was satisfied that Santander had varied its 
SVR fairly during the period covered by his investigation. C asked for Mrs and Mr Ms 
complaint to be referred to the ombudsman. 
By way of a jurisdiction decision dated 21 September 2023, I confirmed that my remit to 
consider the merits of this this complaint was confined to the interest charging events that 
took place after 3 March 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although my remit to consider interest-charging events runs for the six years onward from 
3 March 2015, Mrs and Mr Ms claim only runs to 2 February 2017 when they took out a new 
fixed rate and stopped being charged interest at SVR. The 2017 deal was itself superseded 
by another fixed rate deal in 2019 which is still current. In respect of both the 2017 and 2019 
agreements, Im satisfied interest has been charged correctly at the relevant fixed rate. So I 
next turn my attention to the SVR interest-charging events between 3 March 2015 and 2 
February 2017.
The starting point here is the agreement Mrs and Mr M entered into for the interest rate 
product immediately preceding the mortgage going onto SVR. That was in January 2007, 
when Mrs and Mr M accepted a rate of 6.25%, fixed until 2 March 2012. That agreement set 
out, in section four, under the heading Description of this additional borrowing, what 
would happen when the fixed-rate product ended. It said:
After 02/03/212, interest will be charged at [As] standard variable rate, currently 7.09%, for 
the remaining term of the mortgage. Further details of how interest is charged (and other 
conditions applying to your mortgage) are set out in our Standard Mortgage Conditions.
The next time an interest rate product was applied to Mrs and Mr Ms mortgage was, as Ive 
said, 2 February 2017. That being the case, Im satisfied that the interest rate that Santander 
was permitted to charge under the terms of the mortgage between 3 March 2015 and 
2 February 2017 was its SVR. 
Santanders SVR was 4.74% on 3 March 2015; it fell to 4.49% on 3 September 2016, 
remaining at that level until 3 December 2017, nine months after the end date of 
Mrs and Mr Ms overcharging claim. So the contractual position is that Santander could 
charge interest at 4.74% between 3 March 2015 and 2 September 2016, and at 4.49% 
between 3 September 2016 and 2 March 2017.
Ive looked at the audit C submitted in support of Mrs and Mr Ms claim; it has used different 
rates as the basis for its calculation of how much interest it says should have been charged; 
specifically 2.34% and 2.09%. I cant see where C has explained why it used those rates 
rather than the relevant SVR. No argument or evidence was given to support the use of 
alternative rates when C responded to the investigators view of the complaint asking for the 
case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Having found that Santander was contractually entitled to charge interest at its SVR between 
the relevant dates, and having set out what the SVR was during the period under 
consideration, Ive next considered whether the rates themselves were fair.One of the considerations that I am required to take into account is relevant law. I consider
that the application of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations (UTCCRs) to the 
relevant terms in this case falls into that category of relevant law. The way the UTCCRs 
apply to the relevant terms of Mrs and Mr Ms mortgage contract is ultimately a matter for the 
courts. But they are a relevant consideration I must take into account when determining what 
is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this case.
 
The crux of this is whether any of the terms, contrary to the requirements of good faith,
cause a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations arising under the contract,
to the detriment of the consumer. As part of this, relevant considerations are:
the extent to which the terms are sufficiently clear and transparent;
the extent to which there were any significant barriers to Mrs and Mr M being unable to 
exit the contract.
At a general level, interest variation clauses such as those that applied to Mrs and Mr Ms 
mortgage have a legitimate purpose and are common in financial services consumer 
contracts, particularly those of long or indeterminate duration, such as mortgage 
agreements.
A fair variation term can benefit both consumers and lenders, by providing flexibility and a 
wider choice to consumers and enabling firms to provide competitively priced products, 
knowing they can vary the interest rates they charge to reflect changes in circumstances, 
particularly in their own cost of funding. A reversion rate also permits lenders to provide for 
future changes that justify increases in the rate, and a lenders own costs of funds are by 
nature difficult to foresee.
The time period Im looking at (3 March 2015 to 2 February 2017) followed on from a time of 
significant change in the wider market as a result of the financial crisis in 2008/09. This had 
impacted on the funding costs of businesses and was reflected in changes to a number of 
lenders interest rates charged across the market at the time and subsequently. 
Im also mindful that the FCA has noted the adverse impact the financial crisis had on 
lenders costs during that period, and that it hasnt seen that SVR variation terms have 
generally been relied on unfairly to cause widespread detriment to consumers (see for 
example the May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in 
financial services consumer contracts under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 paragraphs 2.8 
to 2.10).
Santander has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with detailed information about 
the reasons why it varied its SVR in the way that it did. The information Santander has given 
us is commercially sensitive, so can be treated as confidential. The information has been 
reviewed in line with Santanders mortgage documentation, relevant law and regulations. 
Ive considered whether Santander acted fairly overall. Having done so, Im satisfied it varied 
the SVR in line with the mortgage terms and conditions and that Santander exercised those 
terms fairly. This means that Im satisfied Santander did not overcharge interest on 
Mrs and Mr Ms mortgage account between 3 March 2015 and 28 February 2017.
Whilst the base rate had reduced significantly leading up to this period, the costs to lenders 
of funding their businesses changed, as did their prudential requirements. These are made 
up of several factors that are not directly linked to base rate. There was a substantial 
increase in risk to all lenders before and during that period, and that led to them having to 
mitigate that risk in different ways. So there are objectively justifiable reasons why Santander did not always reduce the applicable rate at the same level as the reduction in Bank of 
England base rate. 
Overall I am not persuaded there is any basis to say that the variations Santander made to 
its SVR resulted in Mrs and Mr M being charged an unfairly high rate of interest on their 
mortgage during the period I can consider. Nor does the evidence lead me to conclude that 
the interest rate applied during that period was unfair for any other reason. 
As regards clarity and transparency, I accept that its possible a court may find the terms to 
be unfair under UTCCR but this in itself is not determinative of this complaint. I also need to 
consider whether the application of these terms has led to Mrs and Mr M being treated 
unfairly. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think this is the case.  
Lastly, there was no early repayment charge applicable to Mrs and Mr Ms mortgage account 
at the point it reverted to SVR. So, if Santander had exercised its rights as set by the 
variation terms, and Mrs and Mr M were unhappy with the decisions it made, they were free 
under the contract to seek a re-mortgage with another lender. In saying that, I am aware of 
the possibility that there may have been external factors that might have impacted on 
Mrs and Mr Ms ability to re-mortgage to another lender. But if there were, they will not have 
been imposed by Santander.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman