DRN-2031985
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to pay him an account switch incentive.
What happened
Mr S says he met all of the criteria for a Lloyds account switch incentive of £125. He says he 
asked Lloyds why he didnt receive it, and was told it was because he was a Lloyds 
employee. Mr S says that wasnt made clear to him and if it was, he wouldnt have wasted 
his time in applying. He says that information is not available internally as Lloyds claim and it 
should have kept him informed about his eligibility in any event.
Lloyds says it hasnt made a mistake and says staff members are not eligible for the switch 
incentive and says that information was made available internally.
Mr S brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought on balance it was likely Lloyds would have issued guidance internally about this 
issue and thought that as Lloyds systems picked up on Mr Ss application that its intention 
was that the incentive was not to be paid to staff.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and says he hasnt been able to find any internal information 
and there was no mention of staff eligibility in the account information he received. He would 
like Lloyds to pay the switch incentive.
The complaint was referred to me and I asked Lloyds to provide evidence of the switch 
incentive terms and conditions which it has provided about this issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Lloyds hasnt made a mistake or acted 
unfairly about not paying a switch incentive in these circumstances.
I have looked at the switch terms and conditions document that Lloyds has provided me 
with. I can see that it makes clear reference to staff members not being eligible for the switch 
incentive. I cant be sure if that was the same document that was in existence when Mr S 
applied for the switch incentive as I can see that it is for account switches until the later part 
of 2020. But I have no reason to think that the document has been amended by Lloyds or 
that the relevant part about staff members has been added.
I also think it clear that Lloyds wanted to exclude staff members from the incentive as its 
internal systems rejected Mr Ss application for that reason. And I think on balance it likely 
that there would have been internal communication about the switch incentive and its 
eligibility criteria. I accept that Lloyds hasnt provided evidence of such internal 
communication.
Overall, Im satisfied based on the terms and conditions document, the fact the application 
was rejected and what Lloyds says about internal communication that Lloyds did 
communicate its eligibility criteria to its staff. So, I dont think it acted unfairly or misled Mr S 
and it follows that I cant order it to pay the incentive. I also think that Mr S ought reasonably 
to have checked the position first as I think it likely that any bank would have similar eligibility 
requirements in these circumstances. I dont think Lloyds was obliged to tell Mr S that he 
wasnt eligible for the incentive as I dont think it could have known that was the only reason, 
he made the switch application or that he was unaware he wasnt entitled to the incentive.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman