DRN-2919974
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed her loan and recorded a default 
on her credit file despite making regular monthly payments. 
What happened
Mrs S successfully applied for a loan with Barclays in 2013. In December 2016 Mrs S 
experienced difficulties maintaining payments. In January 2017 Mrs S spoke with Barclays 
and it agreed to provide some breathing space, meaning no payments were required for the 
following three months. Barclays also suspended interest and charges applied to Mrs S loan 
during this three month period. 
Barclays sent Mrs S a letter confirming the payment arrangement on 17 January 2017. The 
letter said Mrs S should get in touch to discuss repayment on the outstanding arrears when 
the payment arrangement ended. Mrs S says she thought Barclays agreed to call her at the 
end of the payment arrangement. 
No payments were made following the three month agreement. Barclays spoke with Mrs S in 
October and November 2017 and payments began again in December 2017. Barclays 
contact notes show Mrs S raised concerns that her account was in arrears and told Barclays 
she intended to complain. 
Mrs S continued making the contractual monthly payments but didnt repay the arrears 
Barclays says she owed. Barclays sent Mrs S arrears letters asking her to get in touch. As 
no response was received and the arrears werent cleared, Barclays sent Mrs S a default 
notice in March 2019. The loan was later closed and passed to a third party to manage. A 
default was recorded on Mrs S credit file. 
Last year, Mrs S complained to Barclays about its decision to close and default her loan. 
Barclays apologised that Mrs S had received poor service when she called to raise her 
concerns and paid her £190. But Barclays didnt agree it had made a mistake by recording a 
default on Mrs S credit file. 
An investigator at this service look at Mrs S complaint. They thought Barclays decision to 
close and default the loan was reasonable, but said it shouldve taken that step in February 
2018, not April 2019. The investigator said Barclays should backdate the default to February 
2018. The investigator thought Barclays had paid a fair settlement in relation to the service 
provided. 
Mrs S asked to appeal and said was living at the registered address in February 2018 so 
wouldve received a default notice if Barclays had sent one and taken action to avoid the 
loan closure. As Mrs S asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but I dont agree Barclays treated her unfairly when it closed 
and defaulted her loan account. In January 2017 Barclays agreed to put payments on hold 
for three months. Barclays says it asked Mrs S to get in touch at the end of that period, but 
she didnt. Mrs S says she was expecting Barclays to contact her but it didnt. 
Unfortunately, the call recording where Mrs S agreed the payment arrangement isnt 
available. But Barclays letter confirming the payment arrangement specifically says Mrs S 
should make contact at the end of the three month period to discuss her payments. Im 
satisfied Barclays asked Mrs S to get in touch when the first payment arrangement ended. 
I also think its reasonable to note that Barclays sent Mrs S regular statements and arrears 
letters setting out the arrears position of her loan. In October and November 2017 Mrs S 
spoke with Barclays and said she would call back to complete an income and expenditure 
assessment with a view to reaching a new payment arrangement. So Im satisfied, at that 
point, Mrs S was aware of the arrears on her account. 
Mrs S has explained she didnt update Barclays with her new address when she moved so 
didnt receive the default documents it sent. In response to the investigator, Mrs S said that if 
shed received the default notice she wouldve found a way to clear the arrears balance. But, 
as Ive said, Im satisfied Barclays sent clear information to Mrs S that said her loan was in 
arrears and it wanted to reach an agreement to repay them. 
The investigator thought Barclays had waited too long to default Mrs S loan and asked it to 
backdate the registration date to February 2018. I agree thats a fair way to resolve Mrs S 
complaint and will mean it drops off her credit file sooner. 
Barclays paid Mrs S £190 to apologise for the service provided. Im satisfied £190 fairly 
reflects the number of calls Mrs S had to make and the way her queries were handled. As 
Barclays has already paid a fair level of compensation, Im not telling it to increase the 
award. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to backdate the 
default recorded on Mrs S credit file to 12 February 2018.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman