DRN-3334913
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined her travel insurance claim.
Any reference to AXA includes all its agents.
What happened
Ms A has a worldwide multi-trip travel insurance policy alongside her current account. The
policy is underwritten by AXA.
In January 2020, Ms A booked a two-part kayaking course within the UK. Part 1 of the
course was due to take place from 1 June 2020 to 5 June 2020 and Part 2 was due to take
place from 26 July 2020 to 1 August 2020. Ms A had to also book a ferry in order to travel to
Part 2 of the course.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Ms A contacted the course provider on 24 May 2020 to ask
whether the course would be going ahead. She was informed that it would not be to going
ahead. So, Part 1 and 2 were both cancelled on 4 June 2020. Part 1 was non-refundable
and the deposit for Part 2 was refunded by the provider.
On 18 June 2020, Ms A cancelled the ferry booking as the course was cancelled and she 
therefore no longer needed to travel. She received an 80% refund of the ferry ticket.
Ms A submitted a claim to AXA for Part 1 of the course that was non-refundable and also the
20% remaining part of the ferry ticket. AXA assessed the claim and settled the cost of Part 1
of the course. However, it declined the claim for 20% of the ferry ticket (£40.43) as it said
there was a disinclination to travel on Ms As part. It also said Ms A cancelled the ferry ticket
more than 28 days prior to her departure date. So, there was no cover under her policy for
the cost of the ferry ticket. AXA said that even if there was cover for this cancellation under
the policy, a £50 excess would apply and therefore the claim of £40.43 would mean there
was no financial loss suffered. This is because the claim would be treated as two different 
claims therefore the £50 excess would apply each time.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Ms A brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator
looked into the complaint. She didnt uphold it and said Ms A had no cover under her policy
for the circumstances she found herself in. As Ms A cancelled the ferry ticket more than 28
days before the intended travel date, there was no cover under the terms and conditions of
the policy for this. She didnt think AXA had declined the claim Ms A unfairly.
Ms A disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to an
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. In summary she said:
She booked both parts of the course at the same time in January 2020 and the 
purpose of these was to give her sufficient training to sea kayak.
There were government restrictions in place when the first part of the course was 
due, and this resulted in the course being cancelled. She would not have been able 
to complete Part 1 before Part 2 was due to take place.
Part 1 and Part 2 were directly linked so the claim was Covid-19 related and based 
on the restrictions in place by the FCO at the time.
It was agreed by AXA that only one excess would apply as both parts related to the 
same claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 February 2022. I said my intention was to uphold the 
complaint subject to further comments and evidence from both parties. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Ms As travel policy with AXA as this
forms the basis of the insurance contract she has with AXA.
Page 31 of the policy booklet sets out What is covered under the Cancellation section of
the policy.
Section 2: Cancellation/Cutting Short Your Trip
This section of Your policy explains the cover We provide if You cancel or cut short
Your Trip. Words with special meanings are printed in bold type and can be found in
the Words with special meanings section.
Please note Cancellation cover terminates at the start of Your Trip.
What IS covered:
We will pay You up to £5,000 for Your share of the cost of Your Trip as a result of:
the death, injury or illness, as certified by a medical practitioner, of You, Your 
Relative or Colleague or travelling companion or a friend or Relative with 
whom You had arranged to stay; or
Your attendance at a court of law as a witness (but not as an expert witness) 
or for Jury Service where postponement of the Jury Service has been denied 
by the Clerk of the Courts Office; or
You or Your travelling companion is a member of the Armed Forces, Police, 
Ambulance, Fire or Nursing Service and authorised leave is cancelled due to 
an unexpected emergency or a posting overseas at the time of Your Trip; or
You or Your travelling companion are instructed to stay at Home (within 14 
days of Your departure date) or return Home by a relevant authority due to 
severe damage to Your Home or place of business in the UK caused by 
serious fire, explosion,  storm, flood, subsidence or burglary; or
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) declaring either of the following:
 Your compulsory quarantine preventing You from travelling
 Your destination is unsafe to visit and they advise against all 
travel; or
Your Redundancy or that of Your travelling companion or Your spouse 
(including a civil partner or co-habitee) notified to You after opening Your 
Ultimate Reward Current Account or after the date the Trip was booked, 
whichever is the later; or
Your cancellation of the Trip as a result of a Travel Delay (Section 5) where the delay is in excess of 12 hours from the first international departure time 
specified in Your official itinerary.
AXA says Ms As cancellation claim wasnt related to the FCO advising against travel for 
when Part 2 of the course was due to take place. It says Ms A confirmed this. So, based on 
this, strictly speaking, the claim wouldnt be covered under the terms and conditions of her 
policy.
However, Ms A has said in her submissions there was confusion on this point and the 
cancellation of Part 2 was linked to the cancellation of Part 1. AXA has already settled the 
claim for cancelling Part 1. She says she booked the course as one course with two parts on 
the same day and when she cancelled the course, she cancelled both parts on the same day 
too. There was no other reason except for FCO guidance advising against travel due to 
Covid-19 for her to cancel the entire course and the ferry ticket.
Im satisfied this was the reason for cancellation of the course (and the two separate parts) 
and the ferry ticket. Therefore, I think she does have cover for this event under the terms 
and conditions of her policy.
Ive gone on to therefore consider the Travel Disruption section of the policy. On page 34 of 
the policy booklet, it says:
What is covered: Before You reach Your destination:
1. We will pay You up to £5,000 for Your unused travel, accommodation and other
Pre-paid Charges that You cannot claim back from any other source if You cannot
travel and have to cancel Your Trip as a result of:

c) The Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other regulatory authority in a
country to/from which You are travelling advising against all travel or all but
essential travel to the country or specific area You are travelling to providing the
advice came into force after You opened Your account or made Your travel 
arrangements for this Trip (whichever is the later) and was within 28 days of Your
departure date.
Looking at the second part of the claim for the cost of the ferry ticket, there is scope for cover
for what happened in this situation. Ill go on to consider the claim in the next section as the
key point in dispute here is that AXA believe the ferry ticket was cancelled more than 28
days of Ms As departure date and therefore there is no cover under the policy. AXA also say
there was a disinclination to travel on Ms As part.
Should the claim be declined?
As a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions, I can see why AXA has declined
the claim. Ms A cancelled the ferry ticket more than 28 days of the departure date.
However, my remit permits me to consider whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances
of each complaint. Ive thought carefully about whats happened.
Ms A booked a two-part course - the second part of the course was directly reliant on the
first part having been completed. My understanding is that there were still travel restrictions
in place due to Covid-19 when the first part was due to take place on 1 June 2020. Im also
of the understanding the entire course (both part 1 and part 2) was cancelled as a direct
result of the Covid-19 pandemic and specifically because there were travel restrictions put in
place by the FCO. Having reviewed Ms As submissions to us, because the two parts of the
course was directly reliant on each other, even if Ms A had wanted to continue and attend
the second part, there would have been no benefit whatsoever for her to have done so. The
sole reason that she booked onto the course (which consisted of two parts) was to achieve aqualification for her to sea kayak. And not having been able to attend the first part, there was
no reason for her to attend the second. I think therefore a reasonable course of action to
take was to cancel both parts of the course and any travel arrangement associated with the
course. I dont think there was ever a disinclination to travel but simply that there was no
reason for Ms A to travel to a destination where the course had already been cancelled.
I appreciate AXA has decided that Ms A has made two separate claims. However, I dont
agree. Ms A cancelled the ferry ticket because she would never have attended the second
part of the course knowing she couldnt complete the first part. So, even if she had waited to
cancel the ferry ticket and did so within 28 days of the departure date, the result would have
been no different. Im not persuaded that in cancelling the ferry ticket outside of the 28-day
requirement, AXA has been prejudiced or disadvantaged in any way as the result either way
would have been the same.
The two claims as AXA has suggested there are here, I think should be treated as one and
are directly linked. I say this because the cause of the cancellation for both parts of the
course was because of the Covid-10 pandemic and because of the travel restrictions that 
had been in put in place by the FCO at the time. While I accept there are occasions when 
claims would need to be treated separately, in the circumstances of what happened here, 
Im satisfied they are very much linked.
How should the excess be applied?
Strictly speaking, if there are two claims under a policy, then a separate excess would apply
to each claim. So, again, I can see why AXA has said that £50 would apply to the
cancellation claim of the ferry ticket. It already applied an excess to the first part of the claim
for a refund for Part 1 of the course and it would do so for the cancellation of the ferry. AXA
says therefore the claim of £40.43 would cancel out as the excess that would apply on the is
£50. That would mean that Ms A would show a resulting effect of not having suffered a 
financial loss.
I appreciate what AXA has said. However, as I have said above, I dont think the claim
should be treated as two separate claims but as one claim. The circumstances of what
happened here meant that the entire course had to be cancelled (Part 1 and Part 2) and any
travel arrangements associated with that.
I note too that in an email sent to Ms A by AXA on 9 June 2020, it confirmed only one excess
would apply for both claims and that £50 had been deducted for the first claim.
I dont think therefore that by separating the claims in this way would be treating Ms A fairly
and reasonably. As such, I think only one excess of £50 should apply and, as this has
already been applied, the claim for cancelling the ferry ticket should now be settled with no
further excess deducted.
Conclusion
In all the circumstances of this complaint, I think it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to
accept Ms As cancellation claim. Im not persuaded that the claim has been declined fairly
or that a second excess should apply. My provisional decision is that AXA should pay the
remainder of Ms As claim, together with interest.
AXA needs to put things right and would need to do the following:
Pay Ms As cancellation claim, subject to any other policy limits, together with interest 
at 8% simple per annum from the date of the claim until the date the settlement is 
paid; andIf AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms A how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Ms A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
In response to my provisional decision, both parties replied and accepted it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties replied and accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from 
what Ive said in this. 
I confirm therefore that I think it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to accept Ms As 
cancellation claim. Im not persuaded the claim should be declined and that a second excess 
should be applied either. AXA should therefore pay the remainder of Ms As claim, together 
with interest. 
Putting things right
AXA needs to put things right and would need to do the following:
Pay Ms As cancellation claim, subject to any other policy limits, together with interest 
at 8% simple per annum from the date of the claim until the date the settlement is 
paid; and
If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms A how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Ms A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms As complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman