DRN-3944405
The complaint
In summary, Mr H has complained that Metro Bank Plc, returned an international payment 
that was made into his bank account with Metro. Mr H says the sender of the payment has 
now become insolvent and that he cant recover the money that Metro returned.  He wants 
Metro to pay him the money it incorrectly sent back. 
What happened
Mr H was getting married abroad. In 2019 he made payments to third parties who were 
organising his wedding. 
Unfortunately, due to the covid pandemic, Mr Hs wedding was cancelled. He then spent a 
significant amount of time negotiating the return of his deposit. He was only able to negotiate 
a refund of some of the monies he paid. 
Mr H called Metro in December 2020 to ask for details of his Swift code and IBAN number as 
he was expecting an international payment. He was provided with those details by one of 
Metros representatives. He asked how long it would take for it to be received into his 
account. He was told it would take five working days. 
On 15 December 2020 a payment of over 3,000 euros was paid into Mr Hs bank account 
with Metro. The payment was suspended by Metro until it could verify the transaction with 
Mr H. Metro left messages for Mr H on 16 and 18 December 2020, asking him to contact it. 
Notes were left on Mr Hs account profile as to what was needed from him.
But when Mr H contacted Metro, asking what had happened to his payment, he was told that 
there were no problems on the account and was advised to contact the sender. As the 
information Metro wanted hadnt been received from Mr H, Metro returned the money to the 
sender.
Mr H tried to get the sender of the money to send the payment again. But they refused. And 
Mr H has said that the sender of the payment is no longer trading.
Mr H complained to Metro. It carried out an investigation. In its response to Mr H, Metro 
explained by way of a summary, what had happened. It said Mr H had called Metro on 
several occasions between 17 December 2020 and 19 January 2021, to query the payment 
that had been made into his account from abroad. The call handlers Mr H spoke to, informed 
him that no payment had been received or was being held by Metro. It went on to say that 
each time Mr H contacted Metro, he was advised to contact the sender that had made the 
payment. As a result of Mr H being told this, Metros customer liaison team werent provided 
with the information it needed to release the international payment. Consequently, the 
payment was returned to the sender. 
Metro went on to say that having reviewed what had happened, it regretted to confirm that its 
colleague provided the level of service that its customers cannot and should not expect from 
it. Notes had been placed on Mr Hs account profile on 16th and 18th December, and Metros 
colleagues should have acknowledged them when Mr H called to query the payment and the 
fact that it had not been received. It apologised for the experience Mr H had and credited his 
account with £100 compensation to acknowledge the upset caused to him. 
Mr H was dissatisfied with Metros offer and referred his complaint to our service. When it 
provided its file, Metro increased its offer to £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr H.
The complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. They explained to Metro why they 
thought Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. In essence, they said that if the call handler had 
checked the notes on Mr Hs profile, they believed Mr H would have received the payment. 
As Mr H was no longer able to have the payment sent to him, the investigator was of the 
opinion that Metro should pay the amount of the payment to compensate him for his financial 
loss. They did think Mr H should have responded to the initial contact made by Metro, so 
they suggested a deduction of £100 from the returned payment.  
Metro didnt agree. Mr H provided information which he said showed his attempts to get the 
money back from the party that had sent the money. This included messages between him 
and the sender of the payment. 
The case was passed to me to review. I asked Metro and Mr H to provide further 
information. Metro remained of the view that there wasnt evidence that the sender went into 
liquidation or translations of the voice notes and messages that Mr H had relied on. 
I issued a provisional decision on 5 January 2023 explaining why I was upholding Mr Hs 
complaint in part. I asked for responses by 19 January 2023.
Mr H replied. He said that he thought Metro should pay the full amount he had lost. If there 
was no way he could get all of his money back from Metro, he agreed to the £500 
compensation. No response was received from Metro.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the opinion that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld in part. Ive 
set out my reasoning again below. 
Our investigator said that Mr H was partly to blame for the payment being returned to the 
sender, as he didnt respond to the initial contact from Metro. I dont agree with that finding. It 
seems to me from the timeline and explanation provided by Metro, that it is responsible for 
the money being returned to the sender. I say this because Metro accepts that when Mr H 
contacted it, he wasnt asked for the information it needed to release the funds; as the call 
handler hadnt read the notes that had been made on his profile. And he was simply told to 
contact the sender of the payment. So, taking this into account Metros acceptance of its 
failings and poor customer service, I fail to see how Mr H could be held responsible in any 
way for the payment being returned to the sender. Im satisfied for the reasons Ive set out 
above, that the payment was returned as a result of the mistakes made by Metro.
Im also persuaded that as a result of the shortcomings in the account administration and 
customer service provided by Metro, Mr H has suffered some considerable distress and 
inconvenience. Whilst the difficulties Mr H may have had in initially getting his deposit 
returned werent caused by Metro, the inconvenience he has had in trying to get the money 
sent again; are in my opinion a direct result of Metros negligence in this case. Im satisfied from what Mr H has told our service, that he has been put to some considerable 
inconvenience and upset in trying to get the payment sent again. And its perfectly 
understandable that he has been considerably upset that a payment of over 3,000 euros 
was incorrectly returned to the sender. I am satisfied that the consequences of Metros 
mistakes have had a considerable impact on Mr H. 
With the above in mind, I have carefully considered the £250 offered by Metro to 
compensate Mr H for the distress and inconvenience caused to him as a result of its 
mistakes. Taking into account the impact on Mr H that Ive set out above, I believe that £500 
is a more appropriate figure to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by Metros mistakes.
Our investigator concluded that Metro should compensate Mr H for the payment that was 
returned, as he is no longer able to get it from the sender. Mr H says this is because the 
sender is no longer trading. 
I have considerable sympathy with Mr H and the position he has found himself in. Not only 
has he had to cancel his wedding due to the unprecedented covid pandemic; from what hes 
said, he seems to have also had problems in persuading the third party to make a partial 
payment of the deposit payment to him. And the actions of Metro, even though they appear 
to have been a result of a mistake on its part, havent helped matters. 
As Ive already said above, I am satisfied there were shortcomings in how Metro dealt with 
the payment into Mr Hs bank account. But I dont agree that in the particular circumstances 
of this complaint, that Metro should pay Mr H compensation amounting to the payment that 
was wrongly returned. If I were to direct Metro to refund the amount of the payment that was 
returned, I would need to be satisfied that it was Metros mistake that was the sole reason for 
Mr Hs loss. And I cant safely say that it was. 
I say this because it seems to me that the difficulties Mr H had with getting the deposit 
returned in the first place was in essence as a result of a civil dispute between him and his 
wedding organiser.  I dont have any direct evidence of what contractual agreement Mr H 
had with the wedding organiser. For example, I dont know what the cancellation terms were. 
So, it isnt clear as to what refund if any, Mr H was contractually entitled to. 
In addition, its not clear to me what the nature of the dispute was between Mr H and the 
organiser of his wedding. And its also not clear why the wedding organiser wouldnt return 
all of the deposit Mr H had paid  or that it did refuse to do so. Also, the wedding organiser 
was able to remit the monies in December 2020, but its not clear why it couldnt/wouldnt 
return the monies shortly after the payment was returned to it. 
Although Mr H has provided copy bank statements for another bank account that he has, I 
cant safely say that the money will not be paid by a different method into another account. 
And its also possible that it could be paid at some point in the future through some form of 
insolvency process. 
Even if I were to have answers to the above issues, I dont think I can safely say that the 
wedding organiser refusing to resend the payment was something that was a reasonably 
foreseeable consequence of Metro returning the payment. I say this as normally one would 
expect the payer to simply send the monies again. And I think in most cases its more likely 
than not that the sender would make the payment again if there had been a problem with the 
initial payment.And I think given the circumstances of this case that I have summarised, the loss Mr H has 
suffered as a result of Metros negligence, is too remote for Metro to be held responsible. I 
do understand that Mr H will be disappointed with my findings on this issue. 
Putting things right
If Mr H accepts my decision  I direct Metro Bank Plc to pay him a total of £500 (inclusive of 
any compensation payments already made to Mr H) for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its mistake. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is to uphold Mr Hs complaint about Metro 
Bank Plc in part.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman