DRN-3188677
The complaint
Ms H has complained about the charges that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) applied to her account  she says it caused severe hardship. Ms H is also 
unhappy with the default reported against the account.   
What happened
 Ms H complained to Halifax about charges applied to her bank account. Halifax said it 
applied all charges in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Ms H bought her complaint to this service asking for all charges to be looked at dating back 
to 2013. An ombudsman issued a jurisdiction decision on 5 October 2021 saying that we 
couldnt look at charges applied before February 2018 as Ms H had bought referred her 
complaint to us too late.
An adjudicator looked at this complaint and thought that Halifax should have stopped 
charging overdraft fees from 22 February 2018 as by this point it was clear Ms H was in 
financial difficulty as she hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period 
of time. 
Halifax agreed to refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the account from 22 
February 2018. Halifax advised the default recorded against Ms H was an accurate reflection 
of Ms Hs account management and couldnt be removed. 
Ms H didnt wish to accept this offer  she wants the default removed and has asked for an 
ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to be clear my decision only addresses the charges applied to Ms Hs account from 
22 February 2018 as an ombudsman has already decided that we wont look at charges 
applied before this date. 
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax has already agreed to
do to put things right for Ms H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Ive seen that Ms H has in some of her correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts Halifax charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services, what services it provides and to who is a 
commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Halifaxs various charging structures or processes per se, 
it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms H if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Ms Hs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Ms H was experiencing financial difficulty. And where this is 
the case, Id expect Halifax to put Ms H in the position shed be in now if she hadnt paid any 
further interest and charges on that credit. 
This means Id normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable.
I can see that Ms H got in touch with Halifax in February 2018 and hadnt been able to keep 
her account within its overdraft limit.  So I agree with our adjudicator that I think that Halifax 
should have stepped in at this point and done more for Ms H then sending demand notices 
as she wasnt using the overdraft as intended.  
But as Halifax have already made an offer in-line with our adjudicators view and with what Id 
expect Im satisfied that what Halifax has already agreed to do to put things right for Ms H is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do 
anything more.
I understand Ms H would like the default removed, but Halifax has a duty to report to the 
credit reference agencies it subscribes to the management of the account accurately  and 
in this case as I understand it even after the refund of charges and interest there wouldve 
still been an outstanding debt. 
Ive noted Ms Hs concerns that her credit rating is affecting her ability to borrow money. She 
might be interested to know that she can place a Notice of Correction on her credit records. 
The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any explanatory 
circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration when 
making lending decisions. If Ms H wishes to do this, she should contact the credit reference 
agencies directly.  
So it is now up to Ms H to decide whether she wishes to accept Halifaxs offer.
my final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax has already agreed to do to put things right for Ms H is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman