DRN-3661653
The complaint
Mr S complains Nationwide Building Society wont refund him for a cash machine 
withdrawal.
What happened
Mr S had £300 withdrawn from his account using a cash machine. Mr S contacted 
Nationwide to tell it he hadnt authorised the transaction.
Nationwide investigated Mr S fraud claim and declined it because Mr S still had the card. 
The cash machine withdrawal was carried out using Mr S genuine card and personal 
identification number (PIN). Nationwide couldnt see how anyone else had got hold of Mr S 
card and PIN to carry the transaction out.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with this answer, so he brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator looked into things and didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld.
The investigator also couldnt explain how someone else had got Mr S card and PIN, used 
it, then returned it to him. The investigator also said if a fraudster had got hold of Mr S card 
its likely they would have made more transactions, Mr S still had money in his account 
following the cash machine withdrawal.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators outcome. Mr S said hed not rest until he got a 
refund from Nationwide. And Mr S had reported the transaction to the police, and hed been 
told there was a suspect identified by the police.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule its fair for Nationwide to hold Mr S liable for payments made from his 
account where the evidence suggests he authorised them.
Im satisfied Mr S genuine card and PIN were used to carry out the cash machine 
withdrawal. Mr S has said he didnt lose his card and didnt share his PIN with anyone else.
Because Mr S didnt lose the card, it would mean someone must have been able to take 
Mr S card, use it, and return it to him without him noticing. Even if I accept this is what 
happened, theres still no explanation as to how that person would know Mr S PIN.
Mr S last used his PIN two days before. Even if someone saw his PIN at this point, they 
would have had to access the card two days later to make the cash machine withdrawal 
thats in dispute. I dont think this is likely.
There was more than £300 in Mr S account at the time, but the only transaction was the 
cash machine withdrawal. If a random third party had Mr S card and PIN, its more likely 
theyd spend all the money on the card, rather than some, then return it.
Mr S reported the loss to the police, and says a suspect has been identified. The investigator 
contacted the police and it appears the image of the person withdrawing the money isnt of 
great quality. Because of this the police have said theres no suspects at the moment.
Mr S didnt lose the card, and hasnt kept a record of the PIN anywhere, or shared it with 
anyone. So the most likely explanation is Mr S either authorised the withdrawal himself or 
allowed someone else to carry it out. In either event, I think its fair for Nationwide to hold 
Mr S liable for the cash machine withdrawal.
Because of this, I dont think Nationwide needs to refund Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman