DRN-2906440
The complaint
Miss S has complained about AXA Insurance Plcs decision to turn down part of a claim for
storm damage under her buildings insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
In February 2020, Miss S raised a claim for storm damage to the roof and interior of her
property. AXA appointed a loss adjuster to assess the damage and agreed a cash
settlement for the areas it identified as being affected by the storm. Miss S accepted the
cash settlement and the claim was closed.
In June 2020, Miss S contacted AXA again. She said she hadnt been able to get the roof
repairs done, there was further damage to the roof, and she didnt think the original cash
settlement was enough. Miss S provided AXA with a quote for the roof repairs in July 2020.
AXA then appointed a loss adjuster to visit the property a second time.
The loss adjuster provided a report which suggested some works may have taken place on
the roof  as there was now only one hole with missing slates compared to two holes on the
first visit. The loss adjuster amended the original scope of works and increased the cash
settlement but said the remainder of the roof repairs quoted for werent for damage caused
by the storm so turned them down.
Miss S wasnt happy about this and complained to AXA. She said there had been no works
carried out to the roof and there were now birds getting in and out of the loft space.
AXA said Miss S could accept the increased cash settlement for the repairs it was liable for,
or she could repay the original cash settlement and it would get its own contractors to do the
repairs on the scope of works agreed by the loss adjuster. AXA also paid Miss S £75
compensation as it felt the first loss adjuster visit couldve been handled better.
Miss S paid back the money from the original settlement and asked AXA to do the repairs.
And she also referred the complaint to our service. Miss S said she wanted AXA to remove
the birds from the loft as part of the repairs.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld because they
found AXA hadnt provided enough guidance to Miss S during the claim. They concluded
that AXA should also cover the cost of removing the vermin from the damage site and pay
Miss S a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
AXA disagreed, it said it had progressed the claim promptly. It said there was no evidence to
link the vermin infestation to its actions on the claim. AXA added there was a gap of four
months between the claim being settled and re-opened, and there was no evidence Miss S
had mitigated further damage to the property during this time even though the money was
provided to get the repairs done.
The complaint was passed to me and on 17 June 2021 I issued my provisional findings on 
the complaint and said I was minded to not uphold it. Ive included an extract below:
My understanding of the complaint is that Miss S has accepted the scope of works that AXA
is liable for repairing as storm damage to the property. And the dispute now centres on the
removal of the vermin from the roof before those repair works can begin. But if Im wrong
about this, then either party has the opportunity to respond on this point and I will reconsider
it in my final decision.
AXAs current position is that it is happy to do the repairs as set out by the amended scope
of works from the second visit in August 2020. And it is also happy to cover any additional
damage which doesnt impact on this scope of works, such as any minor plastering and
redecoration to the interior of the property. But it says it isnt liable for any damage which
occurred in the period Miss S had a cash settlement to get the repairs done.
Miss S says that if she did any temporary repairs then she risked losing out on the whole
claim. And she says this was linked to the loss adjusters comment that it seemed some form
of repair had already been attempted.
Ive considered the chain of events carefully here, including all contact notes between Miss S
and AXA, and the two loss adjuster reports. Having done so, I can see from the photos of
the roof that there is indeed some movement of the slates between the two visits. However, I
dont think the issue of whether this was due to an attempted repair or some other means is
relevant to the outcome of this complaint. I say this because ultimately I cant see that AXAs
actions have led to either the further damage caused, or the vermin infestation.
There is a clear four-month gap on all the contact notes Ive seen where the claim had been
originally settled. And I cant see anything that wouldve put AXA on notice that Miss S was
struggling to get the repairs done. Miss S comments about not mitigating the damage seem
to be linked to events that happened after she approached AXA a second time. Ive not seen
any evidence to explain why no mitigating works at all were carried out in the four months
where the claim had been settled. So I dont intend to find that AXA should be liable for any
additional damage that occurred during this period.
I can see that Miss S first informed AXA that there were birds in the loft around September
2020. At this stage the scope of works was still in dispute and this was also before AXAs
offer for Miss S to repay the cash settlement was made in October 2020. So it seems to me
that this shows the birds were in the loft before AXAs contractors were instructed to
reengage with the claim. As such it wouldnt be reasonable for me to require AXA to pay the
costs for removing the vermin and I find its current position reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive considered the overall timeline of events and I cant see that AXAs actions have led to
any delay, or that theyve provided a lack of guidance or advice on the claim. So I dont think
there is a case here for additional compensation to be paid. I can see that AXA has already
paid £75 for some issues surrounding the initial loss adjuster visit, and I find this fair and
reasonable in the circumstances. So I dont intend to require AXA to pay anymore
compensation here.I understand Miss S will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons given above, I
havent seen anything to show that AXAs actions directly led to her detriment here. So for
these reasons, I intend to not uphold this complaint.
Developments
AXA responded to say it agreed with my decision and had nothing further to add. Miss S 
responded and didnt accept my decision.
Miss S asked if AXA could reimburse the settlement that had previously been agreed so she 
could carry out the works as soon as possible. AXA confirmed it would ask its surveyor to 
reconfirm the amended settlement and issue a cash settlement to Miss S.
Miss S then provided a further response in which she said she would like to have the roof 
repair costs reimbursed but was comfortable with AXA provided their own supplier for the 
internal repairs. She said she had now paid to have the vermin removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Miss S is now looking for solutions in order to fix her roof and internal 
damage. But in the context of this complaint, shes not provided me with any further 
evidence to consider. AXA has agreed to either:
- reissue the cash settlement or; 
- do the repairs in line with the amended scope of works.
It is up to Miss S to decide how she wants to proceed here.
In my provisional decision I set out what I understood the complaint to be and neither party 
has challenged this. I have therefore reconsidered everything and in the absence of any new 
evidence or arguments Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision, for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman