DRN-2040781
The complaint
Mr H complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited are treating a claim he made for 
the repair of his mobile phone under his insurance policy, rather than the warranty. 
Where I refer to Assurant General Insurance Limited, this includes the administrator of the 
policy. 
What happened
Mr H has mobile phone insurance through his bank account. On 24 June 2020 he contacted 
Assurant to inform them his phone  which Assurant sent to him following an earlier claim he 
made - wasnt working and confirmed that it hadnt suffered any damage. Mr H was advised 
that, as it was still covered under the 12-month warranty, he should return the phone in the 
pre-paid bubble bag provided to him but he should use extra wrapping to avoid the phone 
being damaged. Theyd then look to repair the phone but if this wasnt possible then it would 
be replaced.
Assurant received the mobile phone in early July but upon assessing it, they found the rear 
camera lens had been damaged. Assurant explained to Mr H that the damage to the phone 
meant they couldnt consider the claim under the warranty. So, he could either have it 
returned in the same condition or pay the £75 excess fee for a claim to be considered under 
his insurance. 
Mr H complained about this as he said the phone wasnt damaged when he sent it to them. 
And so, he didnt think he should have the pay the £75 excess fee. Assurant however didnt 
change their position
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but he 
didnt think Assurant had to do anything further. He said Assurant could only assess the 
phone in the condition it arrived and he thought it was made sufficiently clear to Mr H the 
importance of ensuring it was protected to prevent it from being damaged in transit. And so, 
as the phone was damaged, he didnt think Assurants decision to inform Mr H that hed 
have to make a claim under the insurance policy was unreasonable. 
Mr H disagreed and so the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Hs frustration at being told hed have to pay the £75 excess fee to make a 
claim under his insurance policy due to the phone being damaged. Ive taken in to account 
that he says the phone wasnt damaged when he sent it to Assurant and that he packaged it 
carefully to avoid this from happening. But, while I know this will come as a disappointment 
to him, I dont think I can fairly conclude Assurant General Insurance Limited has acted 
unfairly  or outside the terms or the policy  by taking this position. Let me explain why.
Having seen a photo of the phone, Im satisfied the rear camera lens was damaged. It is 
however unclear at what point this damage occurred. Mr H says he packaged the phone 
carefully to prevent it from damage. That said, Assurant can only assess the phone in the 
condition it is received. 
Its possible the phone was damaged in transit to Assurant. But I dont think I can fairly hold 
them responsible if this happened as it was outside of their control.  I also think Assurant 
gave sufficient warning to Mr H about the importance of making sure the phone was properly 
protected. The warranty repair letter sent to Mr H said:
STEP 3  PLACE YOUR DEVICE & WARRANTY RETURN FORM IN BUBBLE 
BAG & BOX ORIGINALLY PROVIDED
We dont want it to be physically damaged any further in transit. If you dont have the 
original box or bubble bag, please ensure your device is packaged up securely to 
prevent further damage taking place.
Mr H says he didnt receive this letter. But, even if he didnt, I think this was explained to him 
in the 24 June 2020 call. 
I also consider it relevant to add that Assurant will have processes in place to ensure the 
safe handling of items received. So if the damage had occurred while in their possession, I 
think they wouldve most likely accepted responsibility and either repaired or replaced the 
phone. Because of this, and on balance, I think its most likely the damage occurred before it 
was delivered to Assurant.
Mr Hs phone was provided to him by Assurant following an earlier claim he made. The 
phone was sent with a document  Your replacement phone is inside - that said:
For [administrator] warranty enquiries please call:

Well look to take care of things for you but we wont be able to help if the defect is 
caused by damage or if any alterations or repair work have been carried out by 
someone else other than our approved repairers.
I consider the above made it clear to Mr H that, under the warranty, Assurant wouldnt be 
able to help if the fault (defect) was as a result of damage.
The damage to the phone would appear to have been caused as a result of a significant 
impact. And Assurant explained that the damage meant theyre unable to determine whether 
it caused the fault(s) or not. I dont think this is unreasonable in the circumstances and Ive 
not seen anything to show the fault(s) werent as a result of said damage. 
It therefore follows that I dont think it was unreasonable for Assurant to inform Mr H he 
would have to make a claim under his insurance policy  thereby subject to the £75 excess 
fee  for the phone to be repaired/replaced.I know this isnt the outcome Mr H is hoping for but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Assurant General Insurance Limited has acted unfairly or needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman