DRN-3096450
The complaint
Ms G and Mr R complain about their mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
They say it was mis-sold because the mortgage interest rate was higher than it should have 
been. They also complain that Halifax hasnt supported them while theyve been in financial 
difficulty. 
What happened
Ms G and Mr R took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2004. They borrowed £440,000 on a 
capital and interest repayment basis, over a term of 15 years. The mortgage was subject to 
a fixed rate of interest for the first two years, then a variable rate. 
Ms G says the mortgage payments were difficult to manage, so she and Mr R switched to 
interest-only. Their circumstances have changed over the years. Mr R moved away and Ms 
G stopped working in order to care for a family member. They havent been able to afford the 
mortgage for a number of years and have fallen into significant arrears. 
The mortgage term ended in 2019, but Ms G and Mr R have no way of repaying the capital. 
Ms R says Halifax has done nothing to help, and she plans to sell the house rather than 
have it repossessed. She wants time to sell and an interest rebate. She complained to 
Halifax.
Halifax said Ms G and Mr R were too late to complain about the sale of the mortgage in 
2004. It thought they should have known about their cause for complaint by 2013 at the 
latest, as this was when they consolidated the then mortgage arrears. It didnt respond to 
their complaint about how they had been treated more recently. 
Ms G and Mr R asked us to look into their complaint. Our investigator concluded that they 
had left it too late to complain about the sale of their mortgage, under the time limits this 
service must apply  so we couldnt help with their complaint about that. But he found we 
could consider their complaint about Halifaxs treatment of them from 2014 (six years before 
they complained) onwards.
Both parties accepted that. The investigator went on to consider what had happened since 
2014. He found the difficulty is that Ms G and Mr R cant afford the mortgage and havent 
been able to do so for some years  and he thought Halifax had done enough to try to help 
in the circumstances.
Ms G asked for the complaint to be reviewed. She said that, with financial help from a friend, 
she was getting the house ready to sell, but she had hoped Halifax could at least have 
reduced or stopped the interest it was charging on the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator concluded that the sale of the mortgage and Halifaxs treatment of Ms G 
and Mr R before 2014 are time-barred and, for the avoidance of any doubt, I agree. This 
means I can only consider their complaint about what has happened from 2014 onwards. 
Having done so, while I realise this isnt the answer Ms G was hoping for, Im not upholding 
this complaint.
As I understand things, Mr R, while he has agreed to this complaint, hasnt lived at the 
mortgaged property for some time and hasnt been contributing towards the mortgage. Ms G 
is in a very difficult position: she hasnt been able to afford the monthly mortgage interest 
payments for some years, and the term has now ended. 
Ms G knows she needs to repay the mortgage, but she feels that Halifax should have done 
more to help her given that it knew what a difficult situation shes been in. She says it should 
have done something about the interest it has been charging  this has built up and the 
mortgage balance has been increasing as she hasnt been making any payments. The 
balance is now more than £635,000.
Aside from two payments of £100 in 2019, Ms G and Mr R havent made any payments to 
the mortgage for at least some five years. Ms G has been telling Halifax since 2016 that she 
plans to sell the house, but she wants to do some repairs on it first.
Halifax has a duty to treat its borrowers fairly where theyre in financial difficulty. But that 
doesnt necessarily mean it has to stop charging interest or offer a lower interest rate  and I 
dont think it has been unreasonable in not doing so in this case. I think it has dealt fairly with 
Ms G and Mr R. It has tried to come to payment arrangements with Ms G over the years, 
and not taken action to repossess her home in the light of her situation and her caring 
responsibilities. It has referred Ms G to debt advice organisations and given her time to take 
advice about her options and carry out repairs to the property. 
 
Halifax and Ms G havent been able to come to a viable payment arrangement because Ms 
G doesnt have enough income to make more than a very nominal contribution towards the 
mortgage. The monthly mortgage interest is around £1,900, and Ms G has told us her 
monthly income is currently just over £1,000  which only just covers her outgoings, not 
including the mortgage. 
In these circumstances, I dont think theres anything more Halifax should reasonably have 
done to support Ms G. She cant afford the mortgage and it has reached the end of its 
agreed term. She needs to find a way to repay it and shes aware that will involve selling the 
property. Halifax has allowed her time to do that  but I wouldnt expect it to wait indefinitely, 
particularly as the equity in the property is reducing as time goes on. 
Halifax says Ms G hasnt been in contact with it at all for some time, and it may have no 
option but to take legal action for possession of the property. I encourage Ms G to get in 
touch with it with an update on the planned sale or any other concrete proposals she has. 
Halifax should give proper consideration to any plans and continue to treat Ms G and Mr R 
fairly  but I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022. Janet Millington
Ombudsman