DRN-3953751
The complaint
Miss H has complained about how the early repayment charge (ERC) was calculated on her 
National Westminster Bank Plc Buy to Let mortgage. 
Shes said she understood that the ERC would be based on how many days were left of the 
ERC period as that is what happened with her previous mortgage shed held with a different 
lender. Shes also unhappy that NatWest didnt use up the 10% overpayment allowance 
which is ERC-free when it calculated the ERC due on redemption of the mortgage.
What happened
In May 2021 Miss H took out a fixed rate mortgage with NatWest on a non-advised basis. 
The mortgage offer explained that if the mortgage was repaid before 30 June 2023 an ERC 
would be applied, to a maximum of £2,530.
In 2022 Miss H was looking to redeem her mortgage. Upon receipt of a redemption 
statement, she complained about the ERC saying it was unfair. 
Miss H then redeemed the loan in April 2023, paying an ERC of around £1,200.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the ERC was set out in the paperwork 
and NatWest hadnt acted unfairly in not reducing it either due to the time remaining or by 
utilising the overpayment allowance. 
Miss H didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious Ive condensed the events of the complaint into rather less detail than the 
parties have presented them. I recognise that Miss H feels very strongly about this, and I 
thank her for the thoroughness of her submissions. Although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome.
The mortgage offer set out the terms of the contract, and that showed the ERC would be:
2.00% of the amount repaid on or before 30 June 2022, and
1.00% of the amount repaid on or before 30 June 2023.
Im satisfied the terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should 
have been readily understandable to Miss H; certainly, the information about the ERC was 
set out in a manner that met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Miss H knew  
or at least should have known  how much shed have to pay if she repaid the mortgage on 
or before 30 June 2023.
That said, I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the 
complaint. The rules we operate under say that in doing that I must take into account, 
amongst other things, the relevant rules and regulations. The rules for regulated mortgage 
contracts are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: 
Conduct of Business sourcebook (MCOB). 
Whilst this is a BTL mortgage, so not subject to MCOB as it isnt a regulated mortgage 
contract, we generally feel that the MCOB provisions are good industry practice and so it 
isnt unreasonable for a business to set its ERCs with those provisions in mind.
MCOB includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that an ERC must be able to 
be expressed as a cash value and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs resulting 
from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can choose how it calculates an ERC 
and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of mortgages of similar type, rather 
than for individual loans. 
NatWest was entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to it of Miss H ending her 
own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a 
group of mortgages of similar type. 
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends early, it 
doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising 
the funds to offer that preferential rate. 
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So NatWest is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. 
For some individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it 
will be an under-calculation. But thats allowed; NatWest doesnt have to refund the 
difference, but equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way.
Miss H has said that her previous lender would reduce the ERC progressively each month, 
rather than having a flat rate for an entire year. Im aware how Miss Hs previous lender 
calculated its ERCs, however in my experience I would say that at the time NatWests way of 
undertaking the calculation (using flat rates, rather than pro-rata) was much more prevalent 
in the industry and it wouldnt be considered unusual.
In response to our investigators assessment, Miss H said she was misled and advised 
incorrectly when she took out the mortgage. Unfortunately the original call isnt available so Ive been unable to listen to what was said, but Ive considered Miss Hs testimony that she 
put in our complaint form:
When I took this mortgage out with Natwest, I was assigned a financial advisor (employed 
by Natwest). They went through the entire mortgage applications with me and I explained 
my old mortgage with [previous lender] that I would be converting to this one with Natwest 
(as it is a let to buy mortgage). I discussed the early repayment charges with [previous 
lender] and how they were worked out as I assured them the early repayment charges 
would only be minimal as I only had a few months left on the [previous lender] mortgage so 
it wouldn't affect me- this is one of the questions that gets asked when you apply for a 
mortgage so I 100% know that I had this conversation as I had to assure the advisor that 
the early repayment charge didn't concern me. At no point did this financial advisor think to 
explain how their early repayment charges work and that they are completely different to 
[previous lender], so I had no idea. 
From this I can see that Miss H originally told us that it wasnt that she was misled, instead it 
simply wasnt discussed either way. Whilst she may have spoken about the ERC on her 
previous mortgage with the NatWest staff member, the NatWest staff member didnt need to 
point out the differences unless Miss H asked, which it seems from this testimony that she 
didnt. Especially as in this context Miss H was talking about the ERCs on her previous 
mortgage in terms of how much she needed to borrow and whether it was a good idea to 
take this new mortgage, not in the context of any intention she might have to repay this new 
NatWest mortgage early. 
There would have been many differences between the old mortgage and this new mortgage, 
and as this was a non-advised sale NatWest wasnt responsible for ensuring the mortgage 
was suitable for Miss H.
Miss H has said that NatWest should have used her 10% overpayment allowance upon 
redemption so she didnt pay an ERC on that part.
Section eight of the mortgage offer sets out how overpayments work under the contract. 
That says:
Overpayments:
You can make overpayments on this mortgage.
You can overpay a maximum of 10% of your outstanding mortgage balance in each 
12 month period commencing on completion of your mortgage and continuing from 
each anniversary of that date until the end date of this rate, without incurring an Early 
Repayment Charge. If your mortgage is made up of more than one part you can 
overpay up to a maximum of 10% of the outstanding balance of each part. For the 
avoidance of doubt, this overpayment allowance does not apply to payments which 
redeem the mortgage in full or, where your mortgage is made up of more than one 
part, a part in full.
It is clearly stated that the overpayment allowance doesnt apply to full redemption and 
again, in my experience, I would say that at the time this was fairly normal in the industry 
and as I would generally expect to see.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied NatWest was entitled to charge Miss H the ERC as set 
out in her mortgage contract when she repaid her mortgage early. Im also satisfied there 
was no requirement for NatWest to reduce that amount just because Miss H only had a few 
months to go, or because she hadnt already used the 10% overpayment allowance.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman