DRN-2542010
The complaint
Miss O complains Santander UK plc (Santander) were unhelpful when she tried to make a 
payment to her credit card account.
What happened
Miss O says she visited a branch of Santander to make a payment to her credit card account 
held with another bank. Miss O says the branch staff told her they were unable to help with 
the payment and she needed to go home and come back with more details to enable them 
to make the payment. Miss O says the branch staff were rude and unhelpful and they could 
have got this information from her direct debit details the bank hold for her. As a result, Miss 
O says she has incurred interest charges because she was unable to make the payment on 
time. 
Santander says they did try to help Miss O when she visited the branch, but they do not hold 
the full details of her credit card account. The direct debit details they have for her do not 
contain the account number or bank sorting code required to make the payment. Santander 
say they suggested Miss O could either come back with the account information or use a 
local branch of the bank where the credit card is held. Santander says they dont agree their 
staff were rude or unhelpful. 
Miss O wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold Miss Os complaint. 
She felt Santander were correct in saying they couldnt make the payment from the direct 
debit information they held and there was no evidence to suggest their staff had been rude 
or unhelpful. 
Miss O didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Miss O not being able to make the 
payment to her credit card account when she visited a branch of Santander, knowing they 
held the details of her direct debit to that credit card company. When looking at this 
complaint I have considered if Santander acted fairly when they said they were unable to 
make the payment she wished. 
What happened here was Miss O visited a branch of Santander to make a payment to her 
credit card account held with another bank. Miss O says when she visited the branch, they 
told her they were unable to help her, and she would need to go home and return with the 
full details of the credit card before the payment could be made. Miss O says Santander held 
the details of her direct debit to her credit card and should have been able to help her rather 
than turning her away with no further help. 
From the information I have seen, Miss O only had her credit card with her to support the 
payment being made on the understanding Santander would hold further details from her 
direct debit details they held. I do understand why Miss O may have thought this was the 
case but from the information supplied to this service, I am satisfied the direct debit 
information held by Santander did not contain all the information required to make the 
payment, even if Miss O thought it would. It follows Santander wouldnt have been able to 
have made the payment based on the details held on the direct debit and credit card alone. 
Santander accept they did ask Miss O to get the information they needed to make the 
payment for her as she suggests, but also offered as an alternative, she could go into the 
bank nearby where the credit card was held. Miss O denies she was offered any other 
options and the staff were rude to her leaving her confused and upset and was made worse 
because of the pandemic. Santander maintain they did try to help Miss O and none of their 
staff were rude to her or intended to be. 
It isnt possible for me to know what was said in the branch that day and while I accept this 
may have been a frustrating and upsetting experience for Miss O, I can only make my 
decision based on the evidence I have seen. While the pandemic we all face can make 
matters more stressful, I cant see that it was a key factor in this instance, as Miss O was 
able to conduct her banking affairs at that time. 
I am satisfied that more information would have been needed to have made the payment by 
Santander and they were right to tell Miss O that. Miss O did have the option to call her 
credit card provider that same day, but she decided not to because she doesnt use online or 
telephony banking because, in part she is worried about potential security issues. While that 
is understandable and Miss Os choice, I cant hold Santander responsible for that. 
While Miss O may disagree, I cant see that Santander acted unreasonably and I wont be 
asking anymore of them here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman