DRN-3613050
The complaint
Mr Ds representative complains on his behalf that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) 
caused unnecessary delays to a claim on his motor insurance policy and the amount of 
compensation offered for the delays was not enough.
References to Mr D, or his representative, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of West Bay involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to West Bay.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr D was involved in an accident. A third-party vehicle went through a red 
traffic light and hit Mr Ds van. He said the third-party was at fault. There were witnesses to 
the accident.
Mr Ds representative made a claim on his motor insurance policy. During this initial call the 
representative checked that West Bay had Mr Ds new address.
A few days later Mr D received an email from West Bay which said it had not been informed 
of the accident. Mr Ds representative called West Bay to let them know he had made them 
aware of the accident and that it had been writing to the wrong address. 
The van was eventually classed as a total loss.
Mr Ds representative attempted to contact West Bay numerous times between October 
2021 and January 2022 to find out the progress of his claim. She said there were lengthy call 
hold times. She said there was a lack of communication from West Bay and the claim was 
not progressing as she expected. And Mr Ds address was still not updated.
 
West Bay accepted there had been substantial delays in progression of his claim. It agreed 
there had been a lack of communication from its claims team. West Bay also said it was 
aware of delays with customer calls being answered by its claims team.
In January 2022 West Bay apologised to Mr D and sent him £500 compensation for the 
inconvenience and upset caused. It confirmed it would carry out an urgent review of his 
claim and would be in contact to discuss the next steps to conclude the claim. It also 
confirmed that all correspondence had been sent via email since Mr D had moved address.
As Mr Ds representative was not happy with West Bay, she brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said 
West Bays offer of compensation reflects the mistakes it made, and the distress caused to 
Mr D.
As Mr Ds representative is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been 
brought to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a claim on a motor insurance policy is made the insurer has to go through a process 
of validating the claim. In this case the van needed to be inspected to see if it was repairable 
or if it was going to be a total loss. This has to be completed for the claim to progress.
I looked at the timeline of events in this claim. The accident took place on 17 October 2021 
and it was reported on the same day by Mr Ds representative.
West Bays engineers inspected Mr Ds van at the start of November 2021 and reported it 
back to West Bay as beyond economic repair. 
In this case as the accident was said to be third-party fault, the insurers of the third party had 
to be contacted so that liability for the accident could be discussed and agreed. 
I saw evidence that West Bay did not start to chase liability with the third-party insurer until 
the end of November 2021 and it did not start chasing witness statements until after this 
complaint was made in January 2022. West Bay accept liability was not investigated 
properly.
I dont think such delays are acceptable and I think that the cause of these delays lie with 
West Bay. West Bay have not given any reason for the delays but have agreed they were 
unacceptable. 
Ive seen evidence of a number of contact attempts made by Mr Ds representative to 
West Bay via the online webchat, She also spent hours on the phone trying to progress the 
claim and sorting out issues, including an extension to car hire, that were caused by the lack 
of progression with Mr Ds claim. 
 
West Bay offered £500 for the delays caused and promised to deal with Mr Ds claim as 
priority. 
I do realise that this was both an upsetting and stressful time for both Mr D and his 
representative. I can assure them that I have taken their complaint very seriously. However 
in my opinion, the level of compensation of £500 is a fair and reasonable amount in this 
complaint. And it fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused.
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint and do not require West Bay to do anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Sally-Ann HardingOmbudsman