DRN-3262606
The complaint
Mrs M complained that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) unfairly 
declined her claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M made a claim to Ocaso on 11 February 2020 for water damage she identified when 
she was looking to change the flooring in her bathroom. When she removed some of her 
flooring, she realised it was wet underneath. Mrs M arranged for a plumber to visit who found 
a leaking pipe that fed the toilet, so Mrs M had this repaired.
Ocaso appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim and review the damage. Ocaso said 
during the inspection it was noted there was extensive damage in the bathroom, including 
rotting of the timber bath support and cupboard, as well as the water starting to spread up 
the walls, with this information the loss adjuster concluded this wouldve been ongoing for 
some time.
Ocaso wouldnt cover the claim as the policy that Mrs M had with Ocaso started on 21 
December 2019. Ocaso thought the leak had started before Mrs M came on cover with it. 
So, Ocaso said the claim should be settled by Mrs Ms previous insurer. Mrs M approached 
her previous insurer and she told our service that the previous insurer provided a 
contribution towards repairing the damage.
Ocaso said you advised [us] that you approached your previous insurers and they accepted 
your claim, also they have made an offer of settlement. As this would appear to confirm the 
view that this incident occurred prior to the period of cover with Ocaso, and your previous 
insurers accept this.
However, the contribution didnt cover Mrs M for the full damage, so she asked Ocaso to 
cover the shortfall. Ocaso wouldnt cover the claim, so Mrs M complained.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She didnt think Ocaso had provided 
evidence when the leak started. So, as the policy with Ocaso covered Mrs M for damage 
caused by escape of water, our investigator thought Ocaso should settle the claim (less the 
contribution made by the previous insurer). She thought Mrs M had suffered a significant 
level of distress and inconvenience, so she awarded compensation of £500 recognising Mrs 
Ms vulnerable circumstances and living conditions following the leak. Ocaso disagreed, so 
the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ocaso said Mrs Ms previous insurer had accepted the claim. If, Mrs Ms previous insurer 
accepted the claim then there would be no need for Ocaso to cover the claim. So, I have 
reviewed what Mrs Ms previous insurer said in its final response to her. The previous insurer 
said,
Your policy lapsed with [us] on 20th December 2019. You reported this claim to [Ocaso], 
you confirmed that they referred you to [us] as they believed this leak began when you were 
insured with us.
However, we found no evidence to support [Ocasos] findings. There was no way to 
determine when the leak began, therefore as you do not have a live home insurance policy 
with [us] we are not in a position to cover your claim. However, on a without liability basis 
and in order to bring this complaint to a resolution, I offered you £3000 - £300 policy excess 
= £2700.
I understand that the previous insurers decision to provide a without liability offer on the 
claim will have cast some doubt on the claim for Ocaso. However, the offer from the 
previous insurer hasnt settled the claim. In Mrs Ms words it seems it has decided to make a 
contribution towards the costs. Therefore, as the previous insurer hasnt settled the claim, I 
need to consider if Ocaso has been fair in declining the claim.
The policy does cover damage caused by escape of water. I have reviewed the report from 
the loss adjuster to better understand the circumstances of the claim. The loss adjuster 
confirmed the damage was likely caused by escape of water, so the damage would normally 
be covered by the policy. However, Ocaso declined the claim as it said the leak occurred 
before Mrs M took out cover with it.
The loss adjuster report stated, whilst it is not possible to identify how long this leak has 
been ongoing, we suspect that it has been ongoing for some time. The loss adjuster 
confirmed that he thought the damage was caused by the leaking pipe that Mrs M had fixed 
by a plumber. I have read the report in detail and I think the report provides a balanced view 
of what has happened. By the extent of the damage, I think the loss adjuster has been fair in 
saying the leak has been ongoing for some time. The report stops short of stating exactly 
when the leak started, but we know it stopped in February when the plumber stopped it.
Therefore, I know for certain the leak was ongoing whilst Mrs M was on cover with Ocaso 
and she suffered damage whilst on cover with Ocaso. Its possible the leak started before 
20th December 2019, but the loss adjuster hasnt proven this or estimated when he thinks 
the leak or damage may have started, although he did say it was likely to have started during 
the cover of the previous insurer.
In these circumstances, I would expect Ocaso to deal with the entire claim - whether that be 
to cash settle, replace or make an effective and lasting repair. This is because as the most 
recent insurer, I know that at least some of the damage has occurred during Ocasos policy 
period, so its obliged to deal with that portion of the damage. 
However, if Ocaso can show that some of the damage occurred whilst Mrs M was covered 
by her previous insurer, then Ocaso could decide to cover the full claim and potentially 
choose to recover any costs they think the previous insurer should contribute. But Id expect 
this to be done in the background  with no detriment or involvement of Mrs M.
So, based on what I think is reasonable, I think Ocaso should settle the claim in line with the 
policy terms, less the contribution Mrs M has already received from her previous insurer. I 
would ask Ocaso to settle the claim for the damage to Mrs Ms bathroom and surrounding 
rooms / areas.
I dont think Ocaso has dealt with Mrs Ms claim fairly. Consequently, she has unreasonably 
had to make claims and raise complaints against two insurers, being caught in between the 
two insurers, which would have caused her considerable distress and inconvenience. Her 
claim was left unresolved and she has been living for a long time in a house where the bathroom was damp and needed stripping out and where other rooms were potentially 
impacted. Mrs Ms circumstances make her vulnerable, so I think the impact of these issues 
on her would be greater than the average person. Therefore, I award her £500 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y 
Reaseguros to:
Settle Mrs Ms claim for all damage caused by the escape of water (less the 
contribution she received from her previous insurer)
Pay £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros must pay the compensation within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell it that Mrs M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman