DRN-3378713
The complaint
Mr K complains that his broker, First Central Insurance Management Limited (First Central) 
handled the renewal of his motor insurance policy poorly. 
What happened
Mr K bought his motor insurance policy online for several years through First Central. Each 
year he would go online when his renewal was due and update First Centrals system with 
the information it needed, including his payment details when they were needed, and his 
policy would renew.
In 2021 First Central changed some of its administration procedures and renewal became 
automatic, using payment details it already held. If a customer didnt want their policy to 
renew then First Central said it needed to be contacted by phone in order that it could stop 
the policy at renewal. This procedure to prevent renewal was the same as it had been for Mr 
Ks previous few renewals.
Mr K didnt want his policy to renew so he tried to email First Central but the email addresses 
he tried didnt work and no others were available to him. So he called First Central and 
asked for his policy to stop at renewal. He also asked that his payment card details were 
removed from First Centrals system.
First Centrals Data Protection Officer discussed with Mr K what data it needed to hold, what 
data it could delete and when the data could and would ultimately be removed from its 
system. First Central explained that all the data it held was stored according to the Data 
Protection Act 2018 and that it was complying with various laws like the Money Laundering 
Act when it stored data, and that Mr K had supplied it with the card details when he had 
renewed previously.
Mr K wasnt happy with the way First Central explained things, so he complained about the 
misuse of his data. He also complained about the way he felt bullied by having to call First 
Central to prevent renewal. He says this call went to its sales team, so he regarded it as 
bullying him into renewing the policy.
First Central said that its approach had been fair. It said that Mr K had supplied it with his 
data and payment details, and that his policy wording contained the information he needed 
to decide whether to go ahead or not. It said it had no intention of making Mr K feel bullied or 
pressured and that itd stopped his renewal straight away when he asked it to.
Mr K remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator issued a 
view and said that he thought First Central had acted fairly and reasonably. He said Mr K 
had updated his own payment details with First Central at a previous renewal and as part of 
that process First Central had told Mr K that it would store the payment details for future 
automatic renewals. 
Mr K said that our investigator hadnt dealt with his complaint about bullying, so our 
investigator issued a second view saying that Mr Ks policy had worked in a similar way for 
the past few years, meaning that if hed wanted to cancel then he would have always had to 
call First Central and couldnt cancel online. Because that hadnt changed, he couldnt say 
that First Central had acted badly towards Mr K at renewal in 2021.
Mr K asked for the complaint to be reviewed, so it has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
Its important that I point out firstly that this service isnt the expert on data protection. If Mr K 
has a specific complaint to make about the data First Central hold about him, or how it is 
used, then he should approach the appropriate regulator which is the Information 
Commissioners Office. 
Having read the file of evidence from First Central and Mr Ks statements I am persuaded 
that First Central hasnt misused Mr Ks data or bullied him, although I do appreciate the 
strength of Mr Ks feelings. 
Mr Ks first point is around misuse of his data by First Central. The crux of his complaint 
seems to me to be around First Central holding his payment details in their system. In 
previous correspondence, First Central have told Mr K that it holds this data in line with the 
appropriate rules and as it is required to do so. It has also said that Mr K supplied those 
payment details to it when his policy previously renewed, and it has now deleted them 
following Mr Ks request at the expiry of his policy.
First Centrals policy wording mentions that When you purchase a policy with us we'll collect 
your card and/ or bank details. Later, it says:
We'll use the information you provide us to:
Policy administration and renewal
This includes:
Setting up your policy
Providing premium and payment options, including completing affordability checks
Setting up credit agreements to collect and receive payments
I think its clear from the policy wording what First Central intended to do with Mr Ks 
payment data. Its response to delete Mr Ks payment details as soon as it could shows me 
that the company is responsive to its customers requests and seems to take its data 
processing seriously. So I dont think I can say that First Central have acted unfairly.
Mr K has also pointed out that to drive without motor insurance is a criminal offence. Its 
important that people who have existing cover dont allow it to lapse accidentally otherwise 
they may end up driving uninsured. Many brokers and insurers operate a similar system to 
First Centrals where it will seek to automatically renew a policy unless it hears otherwise. 
The alternative would be that cover sometimes lapses accidentally, with a consequent impact on uninsured driving rates. I dont think its unfair for First Central to include this 
automatic renewal in their process.
Mr K also mentions that he feels he was bullied by having to call First Central when he 
wanted to cancel his policy. He feels having to call its sales team was unfair. Our 
investigator looked into this, as have I, and Mr Ks policy has worked the same way for the 
last few years. If hed cancelled his policy at renewal he would have had to contact First 
Central by phone like any of its customers.
Its possible Mr K simply wanted to transact the cancellation of his policy online, the same 
way he set it up and renewed it. But that wasnt a facility First Central offered and, as 
mentioned above, its important that it checks a customer actually wanted to cancel cover 
rather than it being an accidental cancellation that may have wider reaching implications.
Im sorry to hear Mr K felt this way, but I havent seen anything in the evidence provided to 
me to show that First Central made unreasonable requests or that it treated him unfairly. For 
these reasons, I cant agree that First Central have bullied Mr K to prevent him cancelling his 
policy.
In Mr Ks latest response he has also asked about the legal basis that an insurance broker 
like First Central operates on with regard to how it may advise customers. This didnt form 
part of Mr Ks initial complaint so I am unable to consider it. However, Mr K may wish to 
explore the information published by First Centrals regulator for its broking activities, the 
Financial Conduct Authority, to satisfy his query. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman