DRN-1117545
The complaint
Mr T complains, on behalf of his limited company T, that Barclays Bank Plc failed to apply a 
change of address to Ts commercial credit card. Barclays then closed the account after 
three missed payments. Mr T says this had a negative impact on his personal and business 
credit files. 
What happened
Mr T called Barclays to update them with a change of business address. The change wasnt 
applied to the account - causing statements to be sent out to the old address. 
In March 2019 Mr T became aware that the account had been closed. He says that both his 
personal and the business credit file had been negatively impacted owing to three missed 
payments on the account.
Mr T was unhappy that when hed told Barclays to change the address, it didnt happen  the 
reason that statements weren't being received. He complained that Barclays had closed the 
commercial credit card account after payments werent made. Mr T is also unhappy about 
not receiving a call back from Barclays, and one of his calls being disconnected. 
Within their response Barclays admitted the error in not changing the address and paid Mr T 
£50 for this. They also refunded four late payment charges totalling £48, and paid £50 for not 
providing a call back when promised. But Barclays didnt accept that their error had 
prevented T from making payment. They said that non-receipt of paper statements didnt 
justify non repayment - given the online access and the ability to contact them by telephone. 
And as spending continued after the non-receipt of the statements - the account was closed 
to further spending.
Mr T was unhappy with this and brought Ts complaint to our service, saying that he wants 
the account to be reinstated and his personal and business credit file amended.
Our investigators view was that Barclays had done enough in the circumstances, and that 
the bank wasnt responsible for the non-payment that had led to the adverse credit 
information and account closure. Mr T doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for 
the complaint to be given to an ombudsman to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so , while its accepted that 
there was a failure by Barclays to update Ts address, Im not persuaded that this is the 
reason for the missed payments that led to the account closure. I will explain why.Having listened to the call from Mr T to Barclays 7 September 2018, theres no dispute that 
he asked for the address to be changed on his commercial credit card account. I also note 
that during the call Mr T checks that the address change will be applied to both cards on the 
account - and hes told that it will be with immediate effect. As Barclays have admitted that 
they failed to change of address - I will concentrate on the impact this had - and the remedy 
offered. 
From information provided by Barclays I accept that T normally received paper statements to 
the business address on a monthly basis. That didnt happen, because of the banks failure 
to update the address.
The crux of the complaint is whether the failure to receive statements either changed Ts 
obligations or otherwise meant T was unable to make payments when they fell due. 
I havent seen anything in the account terms and conditions to suggest that payments are 
only required when the customer receives a statement. Further, paper-based statements 
arent the only way of establishing whether a payment is due. Barclays has demonstrated 
that statements are also available via the online portal, known internally as BBOS.
I can see that statements were not sent to the correct address between September 2018 
and April 2019. Although statements after September 2018 were sent to the incorrect 
address, T did still make a payment as follows: 
Statement dated 7 October. Balance £30.88. 
11 October payment received via online banking (BBOS) £30.88. 
The November statement was issued to the old address but also made available via BBOS.  
It confirmed that the balance was zero. 
When the next statement was issued on 7 December, the balance was £989.45 as there had 
been spending during November.  Its reasonable to conclude that Mr T should have been 
aware that repayments towards this spending would be expected. As there is nothing to 
suggest that anything had changed since the payment made 11 October, I have to accept 
that Mr T still had access to his online account via BBOS  and so was not reliant on the 
receipt of paper-based statements in order to find out the account position. 
I also note that there was a further spend of £357.64 on 28 December 2018  which showed 
on the next statement, yet there was no further payment received to the account in the 
following three months. Ive seen nothing to indicate that T was restricted from making 
payment.
As the account was accessed and payment was made via BBOS in October, Im not 
convinced that the lack of paper statements ever prevented payment from being made. 
Neither am I convinced that T could reasonably have expected that no payments would have 
fallen due as a result of its spending in November and December.
Had Mr T historically never accessed the account online, and been solely dependent on 
paper statements  I may have had a different view. But as Mr T had previously accessed 
the account and made payments via BBOS, and had done so in October after not receiving 
paper statements - I have no reason to conclude that this negatively impacted on his ability 
to pay. I therefore cant fairly say that Barclays has acted unreasonably when closing the account or 
when sharing information regarding missed payments with the credit reference agencies. 
Both actions are in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
In summary, while I appreciate T didnt receive any statements to show payments due - as 
the card continued to be used, its reasonable that he wouldve been aware there was an 
outstanding balance and a payment was due. And it is ultimately Ts contractual 
responsibility to make sure payments are made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my decision is that Barclays Bank Plc dont need to take 
any further action in respect of Ts complaint. Im satisfied the compensation they have 
already paid is sufficient to address the difficulty caused by their error.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T and T to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman