DRN-1651195
 
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S have complained that National Westminster Bank plc refused to refund 
unauthorised transactions from their accounts.
 What happened
Mrs S's handbag was stolen from her son-in-laws locked car. 
Her bag contained three debit cards and a written note of the PINs for each card. Mrs S said 
the three debit cards were stored in a separate cardholder and the PINs were written down 
on a piece of plain paper, which she kept in her purse. She said there were other numbers 
on the paper and it wasn't possible to match the PINs with the corresponding card.
The debit cards were used to make cash withdrawals totalling £690.
The theft was reported to the police and the car insurers. 
Mr S and Mrs S also reported the theft of the cards to NatWest. They expected NatWest to 
refund them as Mrs S hadn't authorised the cash withdrawals. 
But NatWest decided not to refund them. It said Mrs S had breached the terms and 
conditions of her account by keeping a written note of her PINs with her card. It pointed out 
that there had been no failed attempts at the PIN. The thief had entered the correct PIN at 
each withdrawal. This suggested it was easy to identify which PIN matched the cards. 
It concluded that Mrs S had been grossly negligent with her banking details.
Mr S and Mrs S were not happy with this outcome, so they brought their complaint to this 
service.
An investigator looked into their complaint and decided not to uphold it. He concluded that 
Mrs S had failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms and conditions of her 
account by keeping a written note of her PINs with her cards in the same handbag. 
Mr S and Mrs S disagreed with the investigator's view. They have asked for an 
ombudsman's final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out, in full, the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr S and Mrs S and NatWest have read the 
investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my 
decision. However, I can assure all parties that Ive read the file, including their comments 
and evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Generally, NatWest can hold Mrs S liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself. But that isnt 
the situation here. Everyone agrees the cards were stolen and that Mrs S didnt authorise 
the cash withdrawals. I am satisfied that she didnt.
However, the relevant regulations, thats the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017), say that if an account holder fails with intent or gross negligence to comply with 
Regulation 72, theyll become liable for unauthorised payments instead of the bank. 
Regulation 72 says that account holders must use their card, and other payment 
instruments, in accordance with the terms and conditions governing its issue and use. And 
they must take all reasonable steps to keep their personalised security credentials, such as 
their PIN and passwords, safe.
The legal test for gross negligence is set out in the investigators view. In short, it is a 
serious disregard of or indifference to an obvious risk.
Mr S and Mrs S say that the latter took steps to protect her possessions, including her bank 
details. They say she did this by keeping her handbag hidden in the boot of a locked car. 
However, Im afraid the test isnt about managing the risk of a theft. Its about showing a 
serious disregard for the fact that, if a theft happens  be it a house burglary, robbery or car 
theft - the card will be compromised. And in this case, Im afraid the cards were 
compromised because Mrs S kept a written note of her PINs in the same bag as her debit 
cards.
I understand the FCA says its permissible to write down a PIN and in some circumstances, 
it might be necessary to do so, for example, where the consumer has a memory impairment. 
But customers are also expected to keep the written note separate and apart from the card, 
(e.g. in another place altogether) and, if possible, to write the PIN in disguised form.
I appreciate Mrs S said she didnt match the numbers to her cards but the fact remains the 
thief identified the correct PIN for each card first time. Even if this were pure luck, it still 
demonstrates how easy it was to work out the PIN for each card. 
In these circumstances,  Im afraid NatWest need not do anything under the regulations and 
as such, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to ask it to refund Mrs S. 
I realise this will seem harsh. I sympathise with Mrs S - she has been the victim of a crime. 
And I wish I had good news for her. But Im obliged to follow the regulations, as they 
currently apply.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman