DRN-2584608
The complaint
Mr Y complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) failed to honour its 
agreement to pay him cashback when he met the qualifying conditions in 2004-2015.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my Provisional Decision on the 9 February 2021 and both Mr Y and AMEX have 
responded to say they disagree with it. My Y has asked me to look again at the issue of the 
£3,000 threshold to trigger the cashback payment, and AMEX have said they only agreed to 
pay simple interest on their goodwill payment because the investigator found Mr Y had 
reached the threshold. AMEX now say that if I were to find that Mr Y has not reached the 
threshold then no further goodwill payment should be made.
In my provisional decision I disagreed with the investigators conclusions and gave my 
reasons. I have now revisited the issue of the spending threshold required to trigger the 
cashback payment. I start again with the terms and conditions which provide;
Cashback is earned on every full pound spent on each purchase. The value of each 
purchase will be rounded down to the nearest pound before Cashback is calculated. 
Cashback amounts earned will be rounded down to the nearest full pence.
I also consider a further term which states;
You must have made purchases on your Card Account of at least £3,000 within the card 
membership year applicable to your Card Account to be eligible to receive your Cashback.
Applying these two terms to the circumstances of Mr Ys complaint, I think the expression 
full pound is key here. This term makes it clear that cashback is only earned on every full 
pound spent. My interpretation of that expression is that if a person spends for example 
£99.99 then cashback will only be awarded based on the £99 spend because that is the 
amount of the full pounds spending. I know Mr Y says he spent more than £3,000, and I 
think that is correct in terms of the actual amount of money he spent on goods. But AMEXs 
evidence shows that Mr Y only spent £2,976 full pounds, and it is that figure which is the 
crucial one.
As I said in my provisional decision. the key point is whether the threshold of £3,000 relates 
to a customers overall spend or the rounded down spend when that is necessarily done in 
relation to each item purchased. 
In considering the second term I mention above, when taking that in isolation I can see how 
our investigator came to their view. But in my view I think that this second term must be read 
in the context of the entire set of Cashback Terms and Conditions. In particular I focus on 
the sentence in the first term above which makes clear that the value of each purchase will 
be rounded down to the nearest full pound. 
So, when reading the second term the reference to purchases being over £3,000 must relate 
to full pound purchases on individual items not the actual value of purchases which was of 
course a greater sum. So, it is on this basis and this interpretation of the terms and 
conditions that I conclude Mr Y did not reach the threshold for triggering the cashback 
payment.
In my provisional view I also recognised that the statements provided to Mr Y were not clear 
because they showed that the total spend was over £3,000. I found that related to the actual 
amount Mr Y had spent not the rounded down full pounds level of expenditure. And, it was 
because this was unclear that I acknowledged how Mr Y would have been misled into 
thinking he had met the cashback criteria when in fact he hadnt. And it was this that I found 
to be unfair.
AMEX subsequently paid Mr Y the amount he would have earned as cashback as a gesture 
of goodwill without accepting that they had done anything wrong in relation to the cashback 
award, and to reflect the fact that his concerns were not properly addressed in 2016. 
I went on in my provisional decision to say that AMEX had agreed with our investigators 
view that it should pay Mr Y simple interest at 8% on the cashback amount from the date it 
should have been paid until the date it was. AMEX have clarified that was of course on the 
basis that our investigator had come to the view that AMEX had been unfair regarding the 
cashback award. I accept that point. But I have come to a different view to that of our 
investigator and I remain of that view. 
AMEX now say that in the light of my provisional decision it does not think it would be fair to 
pay Mr Y any further compensation for trouble and upset, because that has already been 
paid in the form of the goodwill payment of £101.56.
Putting things right
 In my provisional decision I thought the payment of £101.56 and the offer to pay simple 
interest on that sum was fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused in not 
addressing Mr Ys concerns in the first instance. I remain of that view. When coming to that 
view I considered the overall amount of compensation of such an award, and I felt that was 
about right. There is no scale of specific awards I can turn to and the quantification of 
awards for trouble and upset is based upon determining what is fair and reasonable. In my 
view the award I came to was just that and so I do not change it. 
I also recognised that Mr Ys representative has put a lot of time and effort into supporting 
Mr Y with this complaint, but as I have found that AMEX did nothing wrong in relation to the 
substantive element of the complaint, and as I cannot in any event award compensation for 
the trouble and upset the representative was caused, I consider the payment already made 
plus interest on that sum to be sufficient.My final decision
 American Express Services Europe Limited, having already paid £101.56 to Mr Y as a 
measure of goodwill, shall pay to Mr Y a further sum calculated as simple interest at the rate 
of 8% per annum on the sum of £101.56 for the period 16 May 2015 to 16 April 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman