DRN-2327021
The complaint
Mrs C complains on behalf of F, a limited company, that Metro Bank PLC failed to send 
requested bank statements, sent compensation to the wrong company, and wrongly 
recorded Mrs C as the director of that other company.
What happened
Mrs C is the director of F, and of no other company. F briefly had an account with Metro 
Bank in 2019, but this was closed after a couple of months because Mrs C was not satisfied 
with the banks service. When this account was closed, Mrs C asked for a statement 
showing the whole account history, but when this had not been provided after two months, 
she complained to the bank. The bank apologised for the delay, which it admitted was its 
error. It sent the statements again, and said it would pay her £50 compensation.
Another company, which I will call X, also had an account with Metro Bank. Mrs C was never 
a director of that company, but she was wrongly recorded as one on the banks systems. In 
fact, Mrs C is an accountant, and X was one of her or Fs clients. To assist her in dealing 
with Xs finances, she was registered on the account with only limited authority to act, and 
the application form to add her to the account mandate described her as a finance manager 
 but nevertheless, she was described on the mandate as a director.
This resulted in a problem when the bank tried to send Mrs C her £50 compensation. She 
did not have an account with Metro Bank, and neither did her own company, F  so Metro 
Bank credited the £50 to Xs account.
When this came to light, Mrs C complained about it, since she did not have control over Xs 
account and money paid into it did not belong to her. She brought this complaint to our 
service, where it was treated as Fs complaint, since F had been Metro Banks customer. 
She complained that the £50 was inadequate compensation for the failure to send the 
closing statements, because these had not arrived even after the bank had sent them in 
response to her original complaint, causing her to waste time chasing the bank in phone 
calls and branch visits. In the end, she finally got the statements from our investigator, after 
they were sent to him by the bank in the course of this complaint. That was 16 months after 
she had first asked the bank for them.
Mrs C also complained about the banks error in paying her compensation to Xs account. 
She asked for reassurance that she was not still named as a director on any other account 
with Metro Bank.
Our investigator recommended that the bank pay Mrs C £100 compensation. Metro Bank 
agreed, and also corrected its records in relation to Xs account. But Mrs C said that this was 
not enough, due to the amount of time it had taken to resolve matters, in particular with 
regard to getting the statements. She said that she was a mother of two children, trying to 
run a small business by herself, and the time she had spent chasing the statements had 
caused her great stress. She said the matter was aggravated by the bank treating Xs 
account as if it were her own. She asked for £500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Since it is not in dispute that the bank made the mistakes I have described, it only falls to 
me to decide how much compensation I think would be fair.
In deciding that question, I have to keep in mind that the complainant in this case is not 
Mrs C, but the limited company, F. It follows that I can only award compensation to the 
company, and only for the companys inconvenience. I cannot award Mrs C compensation 
as an individual for her own inconvenience, frustration and stress.
If the position were different, I would certainly have awarded more compensation to Mrs C, 
for the stress which she must undoubtedly have been caused over a significant length of 
time, encompassing multiple branch visits and phone calls. But since I am only 
compensating the company (which can be inconvenienced, but cannot feel stress), I think 
that £100 is in line with what our service would typically award, and is fair.
I understand Mrs Cs strong feelings about the seriousness of Metro Banks error in treating 
her as if she were an account holder in relation to Xs account. But it is not the role of this 
service to punish banks by fining them  only to award compensation for the impact their 
mistakes have on the complainant. So I cannot increase the award as a penalty.
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended that Metro Bank pay the compensation directly to Mrs C, and 
the bank agreed  but I think that as this is her companys complaint, I ought to direct that 
the compensation be paid to the company instead.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Metro Bank PLC to pay £100 to F.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C, on behalf of 
F, to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman