DRN-3642836
The complaint
Mrs M as trustee of the M Trust complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold a term assurance 
and whole of life plan.
What happened
Mrs M met with a financial adviser in 2011 who recommended a life and critical illness cover 
policy to protect a fixed term loan Mrs M had in place. The adviser also recommended a 
whole of life policy to provide a death benefit to cover anticipated funeral costs. Both policies 
were written under Trust. 
The policy protecting the loan ran for the full term and Mrs M cancelled the whole of life 
policy in 2021. Mrs M complained to Lloyds Bank that the policies had been mis-sold 
because she had existing benefits with her employer that hadnt been taken into account. 
Lloyds Bank didnt uphold the complaint and said that the recommendations were based on 
the needs identified by the adviser in 2011. Lloyds explained that although Mrs M may have 
had protection from her employer the benefits could not be guaranteed if, for example Mrs M 
changed employer.
Mrs M as trustee of the M Trust brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
and one of our Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that at the time of 
the sale the recommendations met the needs of Mrs M and that the policies hadnt been mis-
sold. Mrs M didnt agree and asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs M as trustee of the M Trust will be disappointed, but for very much the 
same reasons as the Investigator Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Mrs M as trustee 
of the M Trust says that her employee benefits werent discussed with her at the time of the 
recommendations and if they had been, she would have had the option to decide whether or 
not she should take out the policies. I acknowledge this comment, but I now will explain why 
Ive decided the policies were suitable and werent mis-sold.
The adviser completed a fact-find before making recommendations. The fact-find highlighted 
Mrs M had a loan over a term of five years and that she wanted to provide a lump sum on 
her death that would quickly be payable to her husband to pay for her funeral. Lloyds Bank 
provided a suitability letter Lloyds Bank confirming that the term assurance policy would 
repay the outstanding balance of the loan if Mrs M were to die or suffer a critical illness 
during the term. And, that the whole of life policy would pay a death benefit until Mrs M 
reached age 90, with both the premium and sum assured increasing each year by inflation 
on this policy. Although both policies were recommended at the same time, I can clarify that 
the whole of life policy started about six-weeks before the level term assurance policy did. 
The fact-find supports that at the time of the sale the cost of the policies was affordable for 
Mrs M.
Im satisfied the level term assurance policy protected Mrs M for the period of the loan, and it 
was suitable for the specific need Mrs M and Lloyds had agreed at the time of the sale  to 
protect the balance of a five-year term loan. Ive noted Mrs Ms comments that at the time 
she had life cover and other benefits with her employer that would have provided suitable 
protection. This type of protection is valuable but its dependent on Mrs M remaining with the 
same employer. Because of this I dont think the recommendation by Lloyds Bank for a 
separate life and critical illness policy for the term of the loan was unsuitable.  
In respect of the whole of life policy, Im satisfied that this met the needs of Mrs M to provide 
a death benefit, payable to her husband through a Trust, to pay for anticipated funeral costs. 
Ive seen that the anticipated costs for a funeral were discussed and recorded in the 
suitability letter, and Im satisfied linking of the premium and life cover to inflation provided 
further protection against the rising cost of a funeral. The writing of the policy under Trust will 
have assisted in the benefits being paid out quickly to Mrs Ms husband, which was 
important to Mrs M at the time. The policy provided an agreed level of life cover for the whole 
of Mrs Ms life. This means its more likely than not it would provide valuable protection after 
Mrs M left her employer, so Im satisfied a stand-alone policy wasnt unsuitable for Mrs M at 
the time of the sale.
I understand Mrs M feels that shes paid unnecessary premiums, but if Mrs M had passed or 
suffered a critical illness whilst she still had the loan, the cover would have cleared the 
outstanding loan. And, in respect of the whole of life policy, if Mrs M had kept this policy, it 
would have paid out a death benefit after any employers benefits had ceased. So, Im 
satisfied these policies did provide some benefit to Mrs M as trustee of the M Trust whilst 
she was paying the premiums.
My final decision
Ive decided that the policies Lloyds Bank PLC sold to Mrs M as trustee of the M Trust 
werent mis-sold.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M as trustee 
of the M Trust to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman