DRN-2783865
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt comply with a 
request to transfer funds by 19th of each month, which resulted in there being insufficient 
funds to pay his mortgage on more than one occasion. 
What happened
Mr G holds a sole current account and a joint account with his wife, both with Halifax.
Prior to lockdown, Mr G transferred £270 each month in person at his local branch from his 
own account to the joint account in order to pay the mortgage, which went out on 20th of 
each month. 
Following the start of the pandemic and the closure of the local branches, Mr G wrote to 
Halifax on 30 March 2020 asking them to arrange a transfer of £270 from his sole account to 
the joint account prior to 20th of each month starting in April, so that there were sufficient 
funds to pay the mortgage on 20th. 
Mr G explained that he was unable to go into the branch to set this up, and he had no 
internet access to do it via internet banking. 
On 9 April 2020 Mr G wrote again to Halifax asking for confirmation that the transfer had 
been set up as he does not have online banking. He reiterated that online banking was not 
appropriate for him as he has no internet. He also requested that the transfer was set up for 
19th of each month to ensure it was there to pay the mortgage on 20th.  
On 23 April 2020 Halifax sent Mr G a letter advising that his mortgage direct debit had been 
refused due to insufficient funds. 
On 24 April 2020 Mr G complained to Halifax about the failure of the mortgage payment, and 
the fact that the transfer that he had requested in his letters of 30 March and 9 April had not 
been set up. Mr G made his payment for the mortgage by cheque that day. 
On 29 April 2020 Halifax responded to Mr Gs complaint but didnt uphold it.  They said they 
hadnt received the letters dated 30 March and 9 April 2020. They advised that Mr G could 
use telephone banking or online banking to make his payments and provided a priority 
phone number for this.  As a gesture of goodwill Halifax offered to cover any late payment 
charges he had incurred on his mortgage, but none were incurred. 
Mr G was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. He complained that 
Halifax were not being truthful about whether they had received the letters and that they 
hadnt followed his instructions to set up the direct debit for 19th of the month.  One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. She thought that although Halifax had said that 
they hadnt received the letters, it appeared that the standing order had been set up as 
requested by Mr G, but not on the date her asked for. As a result it was a fair assumption 
that the letters had been received. 
She felt that Halifax had acted fairly in offering to pay any late payment charges in relation to 
he mortgage, and that they should offer a further £50 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Halifax accepted our investigators view but Mr G didnt, and so the case has come to me to 
review.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below. 
I have viewed all of the correspondence, and also Mr Gs statements for the period in 
question. 
The account statements show that the mortgage direct debit was attempted by the mortgage 
provider on 20 April 2020 but failed because of insufficient funds. This was because the 
transfer request made by Mr G had not been set up at that point. 
However, on 21 April 2020 a standing order for £270 was transferred from Mr Gs sole 
account to the joint account and the mortgage was subsequently successfully taken on 30 
April 2020. Mr G also made a cheque payment for the same amount on 24 April 2020 to 
cover the mortgage.
Although the final response from Halifax says that Mr Gs letters werent received, I think on 
balance it is likely that Halifax did receive Mr Gs letters, as they did set up the standing 
order from his sole account on 21 April and this could not have been done without his 
express authority. I am therefore satisfied that the standing order was set up as requested. 
Mr G has commented that he thinks Halifax have deliberately lied in their response, but I 
have seen no evidence to support this.
I do appreciate though that this response must have been confusing for Mr G because on 
one hand Halifax were saying they hadnt received his letters, and on the other hand the 
standing order had been set up, albeit after the April payment was due. I therefore agree 
with the investigator that in respect of this poor customer service, an award for distress and 
inconvenience is appropriate and I agree that £50 is sufficient in these circumstances. This 
is because the confusion was short term and the standing order was actually set up in time 
for the May payment.    
In his letter following our investigators view, Mr G has raised the further point that the 
standing order did not always go out on 19th of the month, and went out of 20 June and 21 
September, which was not in accordance with his request. 
In this decision I can only deal with matters that Halifax have had the opportunity to respond 
to in their final response of 28 April 2021. Halifax have not had the opportunity to respond to 
this aspect of the complaint as it was made following their final response, and so this would 
need to be the subject of a separate complaint to them before we can consider it.   
However, it might help Mr G to understand that there will be a delay in a standing order 
leaving a Halifax account if the date its set up to be taken falls on a weekend or a bank 
holiday.   I have checked Halifaxs online help and guidance, which says:
Standing order payments
Payments are only sent on working days and the money wont leave your account until we 
make payment. If the standing order is due to leave your account on a weekend or bank 
holiday, your account will be debited on the next available bank working day when the 
payment is sent.
Putting things right
Halifax should pay £50 to Mr G 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and Bank of Scotland plc should pay £50 to Mr G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman