DRN-3207780
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by providing him 
with an overdraft.  
What happened
Mr G complained to Lloyds that providing him with an overdraft was irresponsible. Lloyds 
said the necessary checks were carried out before it approved Mr G for an overdraft of 
£1,500. 
Mr G was dis-satisfied with this and bought his complaint to this service. 
An adjudicator looked at this complaint and thought that if Lloyds had looked at how Mr G 
managed his account before he applied for the overdraft it ought to have realised Mr G 
wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay the overdraft and it shouldnt have approved 
the application. 
Lloyds accepted our adjudicators recommendations and agreed to refund all interest, fees 
and charges applied to the account in line with our adjudicators view from 10 December 
2019. This totalled £79.24 and would be offset against the amount Mr G owed.  
Mr G didnt wish to accept this offer - he wants his entire debt written off. Mr G has asked for 
an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have and we may award modest compensation.
So where a business continues to allows a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
And in this case after a review of Mr Gs statements, Im in agreement with our adjudicator 
that in the short time Mr G had the account the incoming and outgoing transactions from the 
account did not support Mr G being about to pay back an overdraft of £1,500. 
Lloyds has accepted this view and agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges from 
when the overdraft was approved. So while Mr G may well be unhappy about having to pay 
back his overdraft, Lloyds has offered to do what Id normally expect it to do here. Mr G used 
and benefitted from his overdraft and I dont think that the interest, fees and charges left him 
with a debt that he wouldnt otherwise have been left with.
So bearing all this in mind Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr G to decide whether he 
wishes to accept Lloyds offer.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman