DRN-3988763
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Metro Bank Plc is holding him liable for a loan which he says he didnt 
apply for. The loan was from Ratesetter who sit under Metro Bank Plc, so I will refer to 
Ratesetter throughout my decision.
 
What happened
Ratesetter received an application through its website for a £10,000 loan on 9 November 
2021. The loan was subsequently approved on 10 November 2021 and the funds sent to Mr 
Ms account at his bank who I shall refer to as T. The money was then transferred out of his 
account to a third party. 
Mr M says he didnt know about the loan until he logged onto his online banking with T on 9 
December 2021 and saw a returned direct debit. Hes explained he was unaware the 
£10,000 was paid into his bank account with T and wasnt responsible for this being 
transferred out again to a third party. Mr M subsequently contacted Ratesetter to inform it 
that he didnt apply for the loan. 
Mr M tried to obtain a copy of his credit report and found out someone else had registered in
his name. Once he was able to access his report, he could see that several searches had
been carried out for loans with different providers, not just Ratesetter. 
Mr M has explained this whole matter has caused him extreme stress and anxiety. He says 
he cant sleep at night or concentrate and is paranoid that someone can access his accounts 
and may take out further credit in his name. He would like the loan cancelled and removed 
from his credit file. 
Ratesetter are holding Mr M responsible for the loan as it was sent to his bank account and 
T hasnt confirmed Mr M has been the victim of account takeover. Therefore, it is satisfied Mr 
M has had the benefit of the funds. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. He told us that he hadnt been contacted by 
anyone asking him to transfer money or take out a loan for them. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied Ratesetter had carried out all 
the appropriate checks on the loan application and that the money had been sent to Mr Ms 
bank account. She concluded only Mr M could have been responsible for transferring the 
loan money out of his account with T so was satisfied he had benefited from the loan money. 
Mr M remained unhappy. He feels the application itself hasnt been properly investigated 
because if Ratesetter had done proper checks and requested ID documentation, the loan 
would never have been approved in the first place. Hes also explained he was applying for a 
job at the time and was sending over personal information in relation to this such as his 
passport and copies of his bank statements. He thinks this could be how someone obtained 
his details to be able to apply for the loan. 
Because Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The loan was applied for online, and all the ID checks were done electronically. No actual ID 
documents were supplied during the application process and a signature was not needed. 
Instead, RateSetter verified the information given on the application against the information 
stored by the credit reference agencies. Mr Ms correct name, date of birth and address were 
supplied on the application and the affordability checks passed, so the application was 
approved. I appreciate Mr Ms comments that he doesnt think RateSetter could have done 
proper checks because if it had, the loan wouldnt have been approved. However, from 
everything Ive seen, Im satisfied RateSetter didnt make any errors in the application 
process. 
I can see a mobile number and email address were given on the application and these dont 
match the ones given to us by Mr M. It was to this number and email address that 
RateSetter sent communication about the loan. Mr M said he didnt receive any 
communication and so Ive considered the fact these contact details may not be his.  
It is possible in this case that Mr Ms personal details were obtained fraudulently, either 
through the job application hes mentioned or in another way. And its also possible the 
contact details given on the application dont belong to Mr M. But what I need to decide is 
whether this is enough to persuade me that Mr M didnt apply for the loan himself or consent 
to someone else applying for the loan in his name. 
The loan funds were sent to Mr Ms bank account with T and then transferred onto a third 
party. And despite what Mr M has said, Im satisfied from what Ive seen that only he could 
be responsible for that transfer. Given Mr M told us he wasnt asked by anyone else to apply 
for the loan or transfer money on for them, it leaves me to conclude he must have applied for 
the loan himself as theres no other explanation for the movement of this money.
It follows that RateSetter is correct to pursue Mr M for the loan debt.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Metro Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman