The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy taken out in 1994 when they applied for a mortgage during a meeting with 
Lloyds.
What happened
In July 1994, Mr and Mrs L took out a Mortgagesure PPI policy to cover a joint mortgage. 
The policy provided cover for Mr L if he couldnt work through accident or sickness or if he 
lost his job. I will sometimes refer only to Mr L, but I will refer to Mr and Mrs L where 
appropriate.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs L - through their representative - 
didnt agree with this view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. They added 
Lloyds did not make it clear that PPI cover would be deferred for 90 days for an 
unemployment claim. They said this was too long.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. I know this will be a disappointment to 
them, so Ill explain why.
I have seen a copy of the original mortgage application for Mr and Mrs L. I think its likely the 
Lloyds adviser wouldve talked to them about the PPI. And from what weve seen of how 
Lloyds sold similar policies at this time during meetings I think its likely that the optional 
nature of the insurance wouldve been made clear to them. So I think they probably chose to 
take it.  
Mr and Mrs L and Lloyds agree this was an advised sale. And Ill also continue on that basis. 
So Lloyds had to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ls needs. Having looked 
at their circumstances, I dont think this policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs L in 1994. I say 
this because Mr L was eligible for the policy; he wasnt affected by the main things not 
covered in the policy (the exclusions) and I havent seen anything to show it wasn't 
affordable at the time of the sale.
Mr L had limited employee benefits, so I think the PPI cover would have paid out in addition 
to his sick pay. I think Mr and Mrs L could still have found the PPI useful if Mr L had lost his 
DRN-1134677job, had an accident or had fallen sick. And in those circumstances, I dont think his 
employee benefits made the policy less suitable for him.
For advised sales, Lloyds also had to give Mr and Mrs L enough information which was 
clear, fair and not misleading. I havent seen all the paperwork so I dont know how Lloyds 
pointed out all the exclusions. But even if Lloyds had made all the information clearer, I think 
its likely Mr and Mrs L would have bought the PPI. I say this because Mr L wouldnt have 
been affected by the main exclusions.
Mr and Mrs L said they did not know a claim for unemployment would be deferred for 90 
days. Our adjudicator looked at a policy and explained the deferred period was for 60 days, 
not 90. I agree with our adjudicator that 60 days is not an onerous period and their savings 
could have covered it, so I dont think that made the policy unsuitable for them.
Even if the cost and benefits of the policy were not made clear, I havent seen anything 
which makes me think the policy wasnt affordable or that they needed to keep the costs 
down. Having decided they chose to have PPI and as I think it provided a useful benefit for 
them  I still think they would have bought it even if the costs were made clearer. So I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman