DRN-4248241
The complaint
Mrs P complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc trading as Swiftcover (AXA) handled 
her motor insurance claim. 
Mrs P is represented in this complaint by her husband - Mr P who is a named driver under 
the policy. In my decision Ill only refer to Mrs P as she was the policy holder.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Mrs P and AXA. In my decision, Ill focus 
mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mrs P was involved in an accident on 22 September 2022. AXA became aware of the 
accident following contact from the third party on 13 October 2022. When the car was 
eventually due to be brought in for repairs in December 2022, it wouldnt start. AXA later  
offered to cash settle the claim.
Mrs P complained to AXA. She was unhappy with the time taken and not being provided with 
a courtesy car. Mrs P says how AXA have handled this claim has caused her family to go 
into debt (around £3,000)  as they relied on the car for her husband to be able to work.
AXA partially upheld the complaint and offered £250 for Mrs P not being provided with a 
courtesy car. 
Mrs P remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our Service for an independent 
review. Our Investigator, most recently, partially upheld the complaint. As Mrs P didnt 
accept the recommendation, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, my decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service.
Mrs P had another complaint with our Service that is closed. The relevant final response 
letter for this complaint addressed the issues surrounding the courtesy car, service provided 
and the time taken for repairs. Thats what my decision will consider. Ive outlined my key 
findings that are material to the outcome of this complaint below:
Mrs P says that the issue with the car not starting happened following the accident. It 
was positive for AXA to arrange a recovery agent to collect the car and deliver it to 
the repairer. 
AXAs diagnostic tests suggested that the engine issue was not accident related - as 
the accident was a low impact incident and the car had been driven after the 
accident. Based on what Ive seen and the time frame of events here, this was a 
reasonable position for AXA to take. 
There was a separate issue of the standard of the previous repairs. Its reasonable 
that AXA carrying out related repairs or interfering with those repairs could have 
impacted any guarantee the initial repairer had in place. Overall, I find it was fair of 
AXA to offer a cash settlement given the circumstances of this claim. AXA offered 
Mrs P the option of having a specialist diagnose the issue and theyd reconsider any 
new evidence. This was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs P refused the cash settlement and instead wanted AXA to arrange repairs. This 
resulted in a deadlock and a delay to claim settlement. AXA incurred additional 
storage costs during this time but its fair they arent passed on to Mrs P. 
I find that AXA have delayed this claim and Mrs P lost out by not having use of a car. 
Following our Investigators assessment, AXA offered a total of £1,145. This was 
formed of £25 per day x 21 days (from 22 December 2022) and £10 per day for the 
period 12 January 2023  23 March 2023. I consider this a fair and reasonable offer 
in line with the policy terms. 
£150 was already paid to Mrs P for the lack of courtesy car availability and £100 for 
service and communication issues. I find this doesnt go far enough to recognise the 
impact on Mrs P. I find the total of £400 recommended by our Investigator to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate. 
Mrs P has said AXAs actions caused her a consequential loss of around £3,000. Ive 
noted the bank statement snippets and supporting witness statements. But Im not 
sufficiently persuaded that AXAs actions are the direct cause of the additional losses 
Mrs P is claiming - nor have I seen sufficiently persuasive evidence that she took 
reasonable steps to mitigate her losses. For example - by arranging alternative 
transport or considering hiring a car and claiming the costs back from AXA.  
My decision will disappoint Mrs P, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying 
to informally resolve her dispute with AXA. 
Putting things right
AXA Insurance UK Plc trading as Swiftcover need to  if theyve not already done so:
Pay Mrs P a total of £400 (including any amounts already paid) compensation for the 
impact of their actions when handling the claim; and
Pay Mrs P a total of £1,145 in relation to a courtesy car not being provided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc trading as 
Swiftcover need to follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman