DRN-4452353
The complaint
Mr M has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) has unfairly declined a 
claim.
What happened
Mr M has a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by AXA.
He made a claim following oral surgery for wisdom tooth extraction. But AXA said the claim 
wasnt covered as preventative treatment was excluded under the policy. And the medical 
evidence shows the extraction was suggested to avoid damage to an adjoining tooth.
Mr M complained and unhappy with AXAs response, referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think AXA had unfairly declined the 
claim as the terms did exclude preventative treatment. 
Mr M disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
He was originally referred for extraction through the NHS but he decided to use his 
insurance policy. 
The extraction wasnt exclusively to prevent harm to the other tooth. The wisdom 
tooth needed to be extracted due to problems with the gum stretching.
The extraction was necessary and Mr M thinks he also has cover under the dental 
cashback section as the surgeon who carried out the extraction is a dentist.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
I have carefully considered everything Mr M has said in detail but my decision will 
focus on what I consider to be key. 
The policy says: We do not pay for preventative treatment. And also says: Like 
most health insurers, we only cover treatment that is medically necessary. We do not 
cover treatment that is not medically necessary, or that can be considered a personal 
choice. 
The referral letter from Mr Ms dentist says: Advised that probably should consider 
extraction of LR8 as the danger of getting caries on distal root of LR7 which could 
then lead to loss of this tooth too. 
Having considered the referral letter, I am satisfied that Mr Ms surgery was 
reasonably considered to be preventative treatment and is therefore excluded under 
the policy terms. 
The optional dental cashback benefit says: we will pay toward your dentists 
feesthat you have paid directly to a dentist or dental hygienist. 
Mr M was referred by his dentist to an oral surgeon, who is a specialist. The 
cashback benefit applies to your dentists fees so even though the specialist is a 
dentist, he wasnt Mr Ms usual dentist. I dont think the optional dental cashback 
includes surgery by specialists. So I dont think the optional dental cashback applies 
here. 
Although Mr M says he was originally referred for extraction through the NHS and his 
extraction wasnt exclusively to prevent harm to the other tooth, the medical evidence 
from the time of the claim is the most relevant evidence here which AXA relied on. Mr 
M was advised to have the extraction for preventative purposes and there is no 
evidence detailing what the concerns with the extracted tooth were. So I am not 
satisfied that the preventative steps were an additional reason as suggested by Mr 
M. The evidence suggests the effect on the adjoining tooth was the main reason for 
the extraction.
Mr M has said the extraction was necessary. Even if that is the case, the policy is 
clear that it excludes preventative treatment. So that means treatment might be 
necessary, but it wont necessarily be covered under the policy terms and it can be 
specifically excluded. It isnt unusual for insurers to exclude specific treatment, even 
if it is necessary. Insurance policies arent designed to cover all risks and an insurer 
can choose to decide what it is willing to provide cover for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman