DRN-3428015
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his claim for a faulty boiler under his 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr J has a home emergency policy underwritten by Aviva covering his boiler, electrics, and 
pipes. It was purchased in December 2020 and a boiler health check was carried out on the 
boiler, which it passed.
On 16 August 2021 the boiler stopped working so Mr J had no heating or hot water. He 
notified Aviva and an engineer came out the next day. He said that he needed to order parts 
but would be back.
On 20 August Mr J called Aviva as he had heard nothing and was told that the report from 
the engineer hadnt yet been received and could take another 24 hours.
Eventually, on 26 August, Mr J was informed that his claim would not be covered as the 
engineer had reported that the boiler had been tampered with. Mr J raised a complaint which 
was rejected by Aviva.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and thought Aviva had done nothing wrong in 
declining the claim. She said that the policy terms and conditions allowed Aviva to reject a 
claim if any attempted repair or modifications were done. She felt that Mr J hadnt provided 
any evidence that the engineer was wrong.
Mr J disagreed and asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view, I issued a provisional decision. This gave 
both Mr J and Aviva the chance to comment on my thinking and/or provide further 
information or evidence before I make my final decision in this case.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The exclusion that Aviva have relied on states:
The following are also excluded from cover:.
h) any defect, damage or breakdown caused by malicious or wilful action, 
negligence, misuse or third party interference, including any attempted repair 
or modification to the elements covered by this policy, which does not comply 
with British Standards;
The report from the engineer states:
boiler is not to mfi as expansion vessel has been modified outside of boiler 
and is on floor. Electrics in boiler have been tampered with... boiler condition 
is very poor and there is an electrical crackling sound coming from 
somewhere in boiler shut down and made safe. Have explained situation to 
owner and have advised not to put fuse back in as boiler is BER. Boiler needs 
o much more doing to it and is not worth the cost and hassle. (sic)
The information around the claim is very sparse and the sequence of events is not 
entirely clear. So, it is a difficult complaint to decide on one way or the other.
It is possible that the health check carried out in December should have recorded the 
boiler as being in a poor condition and Mr J shouldnt have been offered the chance 
to insure it.
Regarding the boiler health check the policy says:
If during your Boiler Health Check HomeServe Identify any pre-existing 
problems detailed below, your boiler and central heating system will not pass 
the Boiler Health Check and we will be unable to offer any cover for the boiler 
or central heating system until the pre-existing problems are fixed.
Pre-existing problems:
 The boiler Is Beyond Economic Repair
 Maintenance work Is required
 The boiler Is one that we are unable to service or source parts for
 The condition of the boiler and/or central heating system does not meet our 
required standard
In the event that a pre-existing problem is Identified, you will be advised of 
what work needs to be completed, by when, and where possible HomeServe 
provide you with a quote to complete the necessary work. If you wish them to 
do so.
As far as I can see, after the health check, Mr J wasnt advised that the boiler needed 
work to be done for it to be accepted for cover or told the boiler didnt meet the 
required standard.
If I had evidence that the boiler health check hadnt been carried out correctly, I may 
have been minded to recommend that Aviva refund the cost of the policy, as it should 
never have been sold to Mr J.
However, without any such evidence, I have no option but to assume the boiler was 
in a good condition when the health check was carried out.
In that case, Aviva are asserting that it was tampered with at some point between 
December and August. However, its difficult to see why Mr J would try to repair the 
boiler himself when he has an insurance policy to cover repairs. And even if he did, it 
is likely that this was after the boiler had broken down and wasnt the actual cause of 
the breakdown.
The exclusion quoted above applies when a defect, damage or breakdown is caused 
by third party interference. I dont see that Aviva have provided any evidence that the boiler breakdown was due to the inferred interference. They havent provided any 
photographs, diagrams, or anything to substantiate their claim that interference has 
taken place.
The onus is on Aviva to prove that an exclusion should apply, and I dont believe 
Aviva have done that - unless they have evidence theyve not yet provided to us, or 
to Mr J.
Mr J has two young children so naturally purchased a new boiler in order to have hot 
water reinstated. So, its now not possible to obtain a further report to support either 
him or Aviva.
Without any evidence to suggest otherwise, Im minded to conclude that Aviva have 
not acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Js claim. The engineer concluded that 
the boiler was beyond economic repair. In these circumstances, the policy states:
If upon making a claim your boiler is deemed to be Beyond Economic 
Repair, or the parts required to repair your boiler are obsolete, we will arrange 
for HomeServe to source, replace and install a new boiler. However, if the 
boiler is aged 7 years or over you will be required to pay a contribution of 
£500 in addition to any excess.
So, Im minded to require Aviva to reimburse Mr J what he has paid for a new boiler, 
upon receipt of an invoice, minus any excess or contributions due, plus 8% simple 
annual interest. Mr J was without hot water for over a week. I believe Aviva could 
have told him sooner that his claim would not be covered so Im also minded to make 
an award of compensation for that, and the stress and inconvenience caused.
And I went on to say that I was minded to award £150 compensation for Mr Js trouble and 
upset.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr J hasnt responded to my provisional decision. I assume thats because he agrees with 
the outcome I proposed.
Aviva did respond. They sent a copy of the original health check report and a copy of the 
report from the engineer who visited when the claim was made, along with photographs that 
engineer took at the time.
The original health check report simply confirms that there wasnt a problem with the boiler 
when Mr J took out his policy.
Aviva also asked their technical experts to comment on the report and photographs provided 
by the engineer who dealt with the claim. 
Avivas technical experts say an external expansion vessel has been fitted to the boiler. As I 
understand it, in itself, this isnt contrary to the manufacturers instructions or the relevant 
standards and regulations. But where such a modification has been made, the pipe or fittings 
connecting the boiler to the expansion vessel must not have valves.
They say the photographs of Mr Js boiler show that the connecting pipework in this case 
has an isolation valve. This means the boiler has been modified in a way which does not 
comply with the manufacturers instructions or with the relevant standards and/or gas safety 
regulations.Aviva say that means Mr Js boiler was not covered under his policy (see the relevant policy 
term quoted above in my provisional decision).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the new information Aviva have sent in response to my provisional 
decision. It hasnt changed my mind about the outcome of this complaint. Ill explain why.
The health check report simply confirms what we already knew. Aviva sent an engineer to 
check Mr Js boiler before Mr J was offered the cover provided by the policy. His report said 
there was nothing wrong with Mr Js boiler and that it could be covered without any work 
needing to be done beforehand.
Aviva havent suggested that report was inaccurate or mistaken. But theyve provided 
evidence to suggest the boiler had been modified (in a way that would exclude it from cover) 
by the time the claim was made.
Aviva havent provided any indication as to what they think happened here. They seem to 
stand by the health check report. But maintain that the boiler had been modified by the time 
the claim was made. 
The evidence Aviva provided about the engineers visit after the claim was made is 
reasonably compelling. As is the technical explanation of how and why the modifications 
dont meet the relevant standards.
So, assuming the boiler was (inappropriately) modified before the claim was made, there are 
only two possible explanations. 
One, the boiler was modified by Mr J after the health check and after he bought the policy 
and was on cover. Or two, it was modified before Mr J took over the property and those 
(inappropriate) modifications were missed at the boiler health check.
In either case, I think Aviva should pay for the replacement of Mr Js boiler (less any excess 
or contributions set out in the policy).
If the boiler was modified before the health check, then the health check failed to pick up that 
the boiler needed rectification work before the policy was put in place. In that case, Mr J 
understandably assumed be was covered. And he didnt carry out any work on the boiler. 
If he had been told about the problem which subsequently came to light, he would no doubt 
have sought insurance elsewhere and/or paid for someone to re-fix the external expansion 
tank in line with the relevant requirements. And he would then have been covered when his 
boiler broke down  and he would have had a replacement boiler paid for by his insurer.
The alternative explanation is that Mr Js boiler was compliant with all the regulations at the 
health check, but he then modified it himself whilst he was on cover. I think this is less likely 
for two reasons. First, because Mr J says he didnt. And second, because why would he 
make the modifications when the boiler was on cover anyway? If his boiler broke down, he 
would simply call Aviva.
However, even if it were true and Mr J did modify the boiler, then the modifications could 
only be explained as a response to a problem with the boiler. And in that case, Mr Js modifications wouldnt be the cause of the boiler breaking down. And so, the relevant 
exclusion in the policy wouldnt apply.
In essence, Aviva still havent provided any evidence to suggest that the modification in 
question was in fact the cause of the boiler breaking down. And for the reasons Ive set out 
immediately above, its very unlikely the modification was in fact the cause.
In summary, I think Aviva should pay for the replacement boiler (less any excess and 
contributions as specified in the policy) whether the boiler was modified before the health 
check  which found no problem with the boiler at all  or after.
Putting things right
As per my provisional decision, Im going to require Aviva to reimburse Mr J for his new 
boiler, on receipt of an invoice, less any excess or contributions required by the policy terms. 
Im also going to require them to add 8% simple interest on to that amount, to reflect the fact 
that Mr J was deprived of that money for a period of time.
Im also going to require Aviva to pay Mr J £150 for his trouble and upset, for the reasons set 
out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Js complaint.
Aviva Insurance Limited must:
reimburse Mr J for the cost of his new boiler, less any excess and/or contributions 
required in the policy terms;
pay Mr J 8% simple interest on the above amount, calculated from the date of Mr Js 
payment for the new boiler to the date Aviva pay Mr J;
pay Mr J £150 in compensation for his trouble and upset. 
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman