DRN-4028033
The complaint
Mrs H has complained to us that FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit (FCE) turned down 
her application for a finance agreement, which was for a new car. She also complained that 
FCE negatively affected her credit score by conducting two searches in close succession on 
her credit report. Mrs H has been represented in this complaint, but to keep things simple I 
will refer only to Mrs H in this decision.
What happened
Its agreed between the parties that in October 2022 Mrs H applied to FCE, via a dealership, 
for a hire purchase agreement. Under this proposed agreement, the monthly rental 
payments would have been £250. 
On 11 November 2022 FCE sent Mrs H a letter which said that her application hadnt been 
successful. Mrs H was unhappy with this and complained by letter dated 17 November. The 
letter said, in summary, that she thought FCE hadnt properly considered the details of her 
individual application and she wanted it to look at it in detail instead of simply refusing it. 
FCE telephoned Mrs H, it transpired during this call that her date of birth was incorrect. FCE 
corrected this and confirmed it would reconsider her application. Mrs H then heard nothing 
further and she wrote to complain on 14 December 2022. The letter said, in summary, that 
she hadnt had a response. She complained about its poor service. She asked it to provide a 
specific reason about why the application had been refused. 
On 23 December 2022 FCE sent Mrs H its final response. It said her application had been 
declined and gave a brief explanation. It also said if she wanted to discuss matters further 
she would need to send a copy of her credit report, as FCE had not received this from the 
dealership.
Mrs H was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to our service. In summary, Mrs H 
told us that FCEs decision made no sense. She said there was no reason she wouldnt be 
able to pay the new monthly repayment, as it would be the same amount as the repayments 
under another, existing agreement with FCE in a family members name, that was due to be 
repaid. 
Mrs H also informed us that there had been some financial difficulty with credit card debt and 
gave us an indication of when that occurred. She told us she remained confident in her 
ability to make all the repayments on the proposed finance. She set out aspects of her 
finances which in her view supported this contention. 
In addition to this, Mrs H told us things about the way FCE communicated which worried her. 
It sent her letters which were replicas of letters it sent to a family member previously. She 
told us that FCE hadnt considered her application properly.
Our investigator issued an opinion. She said, in summary, that she didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. She said the credit searches didnt impact the decision to refuse the 
application, and so it was fair for FCE to notify the searches. She also thought there wasnt 
enough evidence that a lack of information about Mrs Hs circumstances including her 
income was a direct reason for the refusal. And she was satisfied that FCE made the reason 
for the refusal clear and had signposted her to the dealership and a credit reference agency 
for further information.
Mrs H remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at this complaint on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. 
Mrs H has explained to us how the new, proposed application was made through a 
dealership. From what she has told us, this dealership is one which handled applications for 
a family member prior to this. These amounted to decades of business. From the material 
she sent to us, I think Mrs H placed reliance on this previous relationship in forming her 
opinion about whether the new application to FCE was likely to be successful.
But FCE and the dealership are separate businesses. And Im sure Mrs H can understand 
that as a provider of credit, FCE conducts its own decision-making processes. So it isnt 
required to take the opinion of the dealership into account in deciding whether or not it wants 
to, or is able to, advance credit to a potential borrower. 
Mrs H also complained that FCE failed to look at the application subjectively. However 
because the new, proposed application was in Mrs Hs sole name, any agreement would 
have been a contract between her and FCE. So its likely that her circumstances (such as 
income, credit score and other possible factors) were the more relevant, and her family 
members prior dealings, however long-standing, were likely to be less relevant or likely not 
relevant.
Mrs H also told us that FCE didnt ask to see proof of her income. She inferred from this that 
FCE hadnt properly considered her application. But there is another explanation for this. Its 
likely in my view that the information Mrs H had supplied was enough for FCE to decide it 
didnt think it should lend to her. 
Overall, from the information available, Im persuaded that FCE considered Mrs Hs 
application and reached the decision to reject it. It also noted that her date of birth was 
incorrect and corrected it. So Im satisfied that FCE considered Mrs Hs application 
according to its processes, and didnt do anything that was unfair or unreasonable in its 
consideration. Next, Mrs H told us that she wanted clearer reasons from FCE for turning down the 
application. In considering this point Ive had regard to the Standards for Lending Practice, 
published by the Lending Standards Board. These set out benchmarks for lenders in relation 
to applications for credit. They state:
Registered firms will ensure that their customers: 
d. Are aware of the high-level basis on which the firm will make its decision to lend to them. 
If the customers application is declined the main reason for this will be provided.
FCE explained the main reason for the refusal of the application in its letters. I understand 
that the lack of specificity was frustrating for Mrs H and because the text of the letter was the 
same as letters previously sent to her family member, Mrs H formed the view that FCE 
hadnt considered her individual application. But I dont think FCE has failed to give her the 
required information. So I dont find it did something unfair or unreasonable here.
Next, Mrs H informed us that on 25 January 2023 she was notified that her credit score had 
been downgraded. She told us that this was due to FCE carrying out two searches on her 
credit report. However, I have noted in Mrs Hs letter of 17 November 2022 that following the 
initial refusal she asked FCE to review her application. And during the telephone call of 18 
November, FCE agreed to do so. It appears another credit search was carried out once Mrs 
H told FCE she was unhappy about the initial one having been declined. However, I must 
also take account of the fact that looking again at the application was what was agreed 
between Mrs H and FCE in terms of addressing her complaint at that time. Therefore on 
balance, Im unable to find that FCE did anything unfair or reasonable in this situation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Katrina Hyde
Ombudsman