DRN-3443231
The complaint
Ms E complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax), wont refund £2,750 she lost, 
which she believes was as the result of a scam.   
What happened
All parties are aware of the circumstances surrounding this complaint, so I wont repeat them 
in full here. 
In brief, Ms E arranged for some work to be carried out in her garden. She found the 
tradesperson (who Ill refer to as R) through an online trade directory website. Through this 
website Ms E posted details of the job/works she wanted completed. The job (advert) could 
be viewed by tradespeople and the tradesperson could then get in contact with Ms E. 
After posting the advert Ms E was contacted by R who said hed be able to carry out and 
complete the job. Ms E discussed over email what she wanted for her garden and received a 
quote. Ms E says she saw positive reviews on the website about R and, she also contacted 
a previous customer of Rs to ask about the work it had completed for them. After 
consideration, Ms E went ahead with the works with R. 
Ms E was asked to pay a deposit of £2,750 which wasnt the full costs of the works. On 
13 April 2021 Ms E sent a payment of £1 to the details for R. R confirmed this was received 
and so Ms E sent the remainder of the deposit £2,749 on 14 April 2021. 
R attended Ms Es property, but shes explained this was only for two days out of the 
expected seven days she was told it would take to complete the works. Whilst at the 
property Ms E has told us R removed some bushes, the old shed and put down the base for 
the works she wanted carried out. Ms E says the work done by R was of a poor standard 
and that after two days, R didnt come back and so, the works werent completed. Ms E says 
she contacted R but received no reply or refund despite her request. 
Ms E contacted Halifax to ask for its help. Halifax wrote to Ms E on 26 May 2021 and having 
reviewed her claim, it didnt think shed completed enough checks to ensure R was genuine. 
Following this, Ms E contacted Halifax on 10 June 2021 to confirm the checks shed 
completed and provided details of these. Halifax concluded on 10 September 2021 that it 
wouldnt be looking to provide Ms E with a refund of the money shes lost as it deemed this a 
civil dispute between Ms E and R. However, it did acknowledge there had been delays in 
responding to her and paid £50 compensation in recognition of not reviewing her concerns in 
a timely manner and for the upset this had caused. 
As Ms E remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld. She didnt think there was enough evidence to say R had scammed Ms E 
or to show that R had the intention to defraud her from the outset. Our Investigator 
acknowledged the banks delay in responding to Ms E but concluded the £50 already paid 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ms E didnt agree. In summary, Ms E highlighted that Halifax said shed experienced an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) fraud but that shed not carried out enough checks. It then 
changed its mind and has since said this isnt a scam. Ms E feels strongly shes been 
scammed and has drawn attention to the fact that the receiving account had no money in it 
when Halifax contacted the receiving bank. And that R had purchased a car shortly after 
receiving the money. Ms E has also said R was not a legitimate supplier as the bank initially 
concluded. 
As Ms E didnt accept the Investigators findings, the complaint has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Having thought very carefully about the complaint, I dont uphold it. I do appreciate how 
disappointing this will be for Ms E, but I dont think I can fairly say Halifax should reimburse 
her the money shes lost. Ill explain why. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms E and I acknowledge her strength of feeling 
about why she feels shes been the victim of a scam. But not all cases where individuals 
have lost money are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
At the time Ms E made the payments, Halifax was signed up to the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) which sets out how it should respond where its 
customer is a victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. The code doesnt cover all 
scenarios and it specifically excludes private civil disputes. It says: 
This code does not apply to  private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has 
paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services or digital content but has not received 
them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with 
the supplier. 
The key thing I need to consider when making a finding on this point is what the evidence 
tells us about the intentions of R  i.e. whether the evidence is strong enough to say that R 
took payments with no intention of performing its side of the agreement or intended to 
defraud her. 
Its clear the agreement Ms E entered into with R did not go as planned  with Ms E 
explaining that the work done was of poor quality and was not completed. And while I can 
understand Ms Es strength of feeling about what has happened, Im not persuaded, with 
what I know, that R set out with an intent to defraud Ms E from the outset. This means I dont 
think Halifax is responsible for reimbursing Ms E because of any obligation it has, either 
under or outside of the CRM Code. Ill now go on to set out why.
As outlined above, Ms E posted an advert for the garden works she wanted carried out and 
R got in touch with her following this. Ms E recalls that R had been a member of the website 
for around three years and told us that there were a number of reviews for R. I havent seen 
or been provided with the specific reviews for R from the online trade directory website which Ms E has referred to and I do note R is no longer on the website  but Ms E has told us that 
a number of the reviews were glowing. Ms E has also told us she contacted a previous 
customer of Rs by phone and email and that she received photographs of the work R had 
carried out and completed for them. Satisfied with this, Ms E proceeded with the garden 
works. For completeness, I am aware Ms E did receive further correspondence from the 
previous customer, after R started the works on her garden, expressing unhappiness with 
the quality of the works that had been completed. 
Having thought about this, while I recognise the email correspondence Ms E has given us 
from the previous customer indicates they are now unhappy with the quality of the works R 
completed for them, I dont think this automatically means R was a scammer or that this was 
a scam. This is because, Ms E herself has referred to many glowing review responses at the 
time she carried out her checks into R. And the information provided by the previous 
customer confirms R did complete the work it was instructed to do but the subsequent 
concerns are around the quality of the work done. It follows that Im not persuaded the 
information above suggests R set out to defraud Ms E.  
Im aware R attended Ms Es property and did undertake some of the agreed works after the 
payments were made - although shes explained this was not to a good standard and that 
the work had to be redone. Ms E has provided some email correspondence between herself 
and R which is from the initial contact about the work and, also contact after R had been to 
the property. Within emails from April 2021, I can see Ms E referred to not having heard from 
R and asked if everything was ok. She also commented that Rs profile on the website was 
now closed. R responded and said that someone was off and that the account had closed 
due to a matter with another client and the website not helping to resolve the issue. Within 
this contact R informs Ms E that itll be back later that week. It was following some further 
emails from Ms E, that it appears R stopped responding. Id like to assure Ms E that I can 
appreciate her frustrations and unhappiness that she stopped receiving replies to her 
messages. But I have to keep in mind that there are many reasons why two parties might 
stop communicating with each other, such as a breakdown in the relationship or a business 
getting into difficulties financially or with staffing/materials and so this aspect doesnt 
automatically lead me to make the finding that there is enough evidence of a scam in this 
particular case.
Our Investigator also got in touch with the bank Ms E sent her payments to. While I am 
unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their relationship with their bank, 
the receiving bank has said that there were no other concerns raised prior to Ms E making 
the payments. 
Ms E says no funds remained in the receiving account. She believes R withdrew the funds 
and purchased a car with her money. In support of this, Ms E has provided a copy of a post 
from Rs social media account. Ive thought carefully about this, but this point doesnt change 
my conclusions. Whilst R may have purchased a car, this in and of itself isnt evidence of a 
scam. Nor do I think no funds remaining in the receiving account, in isolation, is enough to 
persuade me that R had the intention to deceive Ms E or that it had no intention of 
performing its side of the agreement.  
After taking everything into careful consideration, the testimony and evidence provided by 
both parties, on balance and when considering the individual circumstances of this case, I 
cant safely say this meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. It follows 
that I cant fairly or reasonably say that, based on what I know and the evidence available, R 
set out with the intent to defraud Ms E. 
This being the case, Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask Halifax to refund the money Ms E has lost, as I dont think it has treated Ms E unfairly when it said the payments she made werent covered by the CRM Code. 
Overall, Im persuaded this appears to be a case of a tradesperson, potentially failing to 
honour an agreement, by not providing or completing the work that their customer expected 
or to the standard expected. 
I do understand Ms E is unhappy that Halifax initially said shed experienced fraud but 
changed its mind and said this was a civil dispute. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. It is not our 
role to fine or punish businesses. That is the remit of the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. I can appreciate the change in Halifaxs position may have caused Ms E some 
confusion and frustration, but it is not unreasonable for a business to change its position 
when it better understands the circumstances of the case. It follows that I dont think this 
change in position means Ms E should be reimbursed the money shes lost. 
Customer service
I can see Ms E is also unhappy with the service she received from Halifax. It accepts there 
were delays in responding to Ms E and has paid £50 compensation in recognition of this and 
the upset caused. While I can understand why Ms E wouldve liked to receive the outcome of 
her claim sooner than she did, Im satisfied the £50 paid by Halifax is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I also dont consider any poor service to have affected 
the outcome Halifax ultimately reached. So, I make no further award on this point. 
I do recognise my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms E and Id like to assure her 
Ive taken everything shes told us into account, but overall for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I cant fairly and reasonably ask Halifax to refund her the money she has lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman