DRN-1636119
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). Mr G was sold the URCA in June 2009 and it 
was downgraded back to a fee-free account in October 2009.
Mr G is also unhappy about how Halifax dealt with his complaint. He has also complained 
that bank charges Halifax applied to his account caused him to experience financial 
difficulties which eventually led to him defaulting, which in turn has affected his credit file.
What happened
Halifax considered Mr Gs complaint and agreed that the URCA had been mis-sold. It sent 
Mr G a cheque for £55.69. This represented a refund of the three account fees of £12.50 
that Mr G was charged whilst he held the URCA, plus 8% simple interest on those fees, less 
deductible tax.
Mr G remained unhappy with how his complaint had been dealt with as he felt that Halifax 
had not fully understood his complaint, so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Gs complaint and she didnt uphold it. She felt that 
what Halifax had already offered Mr G was sufficient to put right what it had done wrong. We 
also explained to Mr G that we could not look into his complaint about the impact the bank 
charges had on him as wed already considered a complaint about the same issue for Mr G 
in 2016.
Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and so the complaint has been referred 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mr Gs complaint. And having done 
so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
URCA Mis-Sale
Mr G has complained that his URCA had been mis-sold and Halifax appear to have 
accepted that it was. So I have not considered what happened at the point of sale. But I 
have considered whether what Halifax has already offered Mr G, is fair and reasonable.
Halifax has agreed to refund Mr G the three URCA account fees of £12.50 that he was 
charged. And it has also agreed to pay Mr G 8% simple interest, less tax, on those fees as 
well. Having considered this offer, I think it is a reasonable offer and in line with what I 
wouldve recommended Halifax do, had I concluded that the account had been mis-sold.
I note that Mr G has said that hed also like overdraft charges refunded. So I looked at his 
bank statements from around the time he held the URCA, to see if any overdraft charges 
were incurred as a direct result of the URCA account fee being applied to the account. But I 
cant see that any were. Therefore I dont think Mr G suffered any further financial loss 
(beyond the account fees that he was charged) as a result of being sold the URCA. 
Therefore I dont think any further redress is warranted for the URCA being mis-sold.
Customer Service
In his initial contact with us, I understand that Mr G was unhappy with how Halifax dealt with 
his complaint. Essentially, I understand that Mr G felt that the complaint handler had mis-
understood his complaint and had only considered a small part of his overall complaint. 
Having considered what Mr G has said, unfortunately Im unable to look into this aspect of 
his complaint. 
The rules which apply to all complaints referred to us are called the Dispute Resolution rules 
and rule 2.3 (found at the website: fshandbook.info/FS/html/handbook/DISP/2/3) sets out 
which activities fall within our remit. I have looked at these activities and complaint handling 
is not one that is listed and therefore it is not something this service can look at. 
Bank charges complaint
Mr G has also complained that Halifax applied bank charges to his account which led to 
financial difficulties. He says the bank charges eventually led to defaulting on his bank 
account, which in turn adversely affected his credit file.
However, as explained by my colleague, Mr G has already referred a complaint to our 
service in 2016 about the bank charges that Halifax applied to his account causing him 
financial difficulties. Therefore, as this issue was the subject of an earlier complaint that our 
service has already looked into, I wont be able to address the issue again.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
I therefore dont require Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything more, beyond what it has 
already offered to do, to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman