DRN-2726970
The complaint
 Mrs and Mr C complain about how Hiscox Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim 
they made on their home insurance policy following the loss of a ring.
What happened
 On 1 April 2019 Mrs and Mr C jointly took out a home insurance policy with Hiscox via a 
broker, which Ill refer to as F in this decision. 
They said that, at the time they incepted their policy, they requested additional contents 
cover for personal possessions away from their home. The personal possessions they 
wanted to insure were several items of jewellery owned by Mrs C. And they say they 
provided F with a list of the jewellery items they wanted to ensure were covered.
Mrs and Mr C said F informed them that the only items of jewellery theyd need to separately 
specify on their insurance schedule would be items where the value exceeded £5000. Mrs 
and Mr C said they relied on the information F gave them and separately specified an 
engagement ring, which was valued at over £5800. 
In March 2020 Mrs C lost her eternity ring. She said shed removed her rings at work and 
placed them in a zipped pocket of her bag. And she said, when she returned home, she 
noticed that the pocket was open and her eternity ring was missing. She said, having 
checked with her employer and the taxi company shed used to travel home, the ring couldnt 
be found.
Mrs Cs missing eternity ring was valued at £3650. So, it wasnt separately itemised on Mrs 
and Mr Cs schedule of insurance. But, as the ring was worth less than £5000, Mrs and Mr C 
believed it was insured away from home under the personal possessions cover theyd taken 
out. And they contacted F to make a claim for accidental loss. 
When F notified Hiscox of the accidental loss claim Mrs and Mr C had made it repudiated 
their claim. It said only an engagement ring had been specified under the personal 
possessions section of Mrs and Mr Cs policy and insurance schedule. And it said that, as 
this hadnt been the ring Mrs C had lost, it wasnt prepared to settle the claim in their favour.
Being dissatisfied with how Hiscox had decided their claim, Mrs and Mr C complained. But 
Hiscox didnt uphold their complaint. It explained that, while theyd taken out insurance for 
personal possessions, the only item of jewellery theyd specified under that part of their 
policy had been Mrs Cs engagement ring. So, it said the eternity ring hadnt been insured 
and it thought its repudiation decision was fair and reasonable.
Mrs and Mr C brought their complaint to our service, which was considered by one of our 
investigators. He recommended upholding this complaint as he wasnt persuaded that 
Hiscox had assessed Mrs and Mr Cs claim fairly. He also thought Hiscox should pay 8% 
interest on any settlement it made and £100 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset 
Mrs and Mr C had experienced while their claim was declined. But Hiscox rejected our 
investigators view of this complaint and asked that an ombudsman decide it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I can see Mrs and Mr C and Hiscox have gone to some trouble to provide our service with 
detailed submissions about this repudiated claim. I want to assure them that Ive read 
everything theyve sent us. I hope theyll understand if I dont address every comment 
theyve made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what the crux of this complaint  
namely whether Hiscox acted reasonably in declining this claim. And Ill explain why I dont 
think it did.
Its not in dispute that Mrs C suffered the loss of her eternity ring. I recognise how distressing 
that must have been  this ring holds considerable sentimental value. Its unclear where the 
ring was lost. But I can see that Hiscox hasnt expressed any concerns about Mrs Cs 
inability to give a more detailed account about the circumstances of her loss.
Its also not disputed that Mrs and Mr C had taken out additional cover for personal 
possessions when they incepted their policy. Based on the evidence Ive seen, its clear they 
intended to insure several items of Mrs Cs jewellery away from their home.
Cover for contents away from the home is typically always a policy add-on offered by 
insurers. Because its an extension of cover, it will attract an additional premium. Thats 
because the risk the insurer is being asked to take on will have increased.
Mrs and Mr C informed our service that F advised them theyd only need to separately 
declare personal possessions over the value of £5000 if they wanted cover away from their 
home. It told them that items worth less than that sum would be covered automatically.
Id like to make clear that, within this decision, Im limiting my findings to whether Hiscox 
made an error in repudiating Mrs and Mr Cs claim. This is what the complaint theyve 
referred to our service is about. It isnt about whether the advice F provided Mrs and Mr C 
was correct. And, as Hiscox didnt sell this policy, I cant comment on whether the advice 
Mrs and Mr C received about itemising their jewellery was correct. I can see that our 
investigator informed them theyll need to complain to F if they wish to pursue a complaint 
about the advice they received when they incepted their policy. I think this was good advice.
 
In considering whether Hiscox fairly assessed Mrs and Mr Cs claim for the lost eternity ring 
Ive carefully considered what their insurance policy says about the basis on which it settles 
claims. Their policy states that Hiscox will not pay more than £5,000 for any item, pair or set 
unless the item, pair or set concerned is individually listed in the schedule of specified items 
and attached to the schedule. 
I can see that, under the personal possessions section in the schedule of insurance Mrs and 
Mr C were sent, Hiscox states that it will insure a single item limit of £5000 (including 
jewellery, watches, furs, hand luggage and audio and visual equipment and mobile phones. 
The schedule also specifies that an upper single item limit of £5850 applies, which is the 
value of Mrs Cs engagement ring.
Hiscox is seeking to limit its liability here by arguing that the personal possessions cover that 
Mrs and Mr C took out only covers the engagement ring. It contends that this is because this 
was the only item that Mrs and Mr C separately declared. But that isnt what the policy terms 
or schedule says. The schedule doesnt invite a policyholder to separately itemise items 
which are worth less than £5000. And, if Hiscox intended its policy to be interpreted in the way it is seeking to argue, it ought to have drafted the terms and schedule differently to 
clearly reflect that intention.
In considering whether Hiscox ought to settle this claim Ive thought about how a reasonable 
person would interpret the terms of the policy Mrs and Mr C incepted. I think its reasonable 
for a policyholder to read the policy terms and insurance schedule and believe that any items 
under the value of £5000 wouldnt need to be individually specified for them to be covered. 
This is the single item limit and is the point at which items exceeding that value need to be 
individually listed and declared on the policy schedule. 
Like our investigator, I think its reasonable to interpret Mrs and Mr Cs policy as saying that 
a single item of jewellery worth less than £5000 is covered under the personal possessions 
cover they took out without needing to be specified separately. 
Mrs and Mr C have sent our service a valuation report, dated 26 March 2021, confirming that 
the lost eternity ring has been valued at £3650. As this is under the £5000 single item limit, I 
dont think Mrs and Mr C needed to separately specify the engagement ring that was lost. It 
follows that I think it was unfair for Hiscox to decline their claim for the reasons it gave.
Putting things right
 For the reasons already outlined, I dont think it was fair for Hiscox to repudiate Mrs and Mr 
Cs claim for the reasons it gave. Im therefore upholding this complaint. 
To put matters right, Hiscox should reconsider Mrs and Mr Cs claim without reference to the 
policy limits, which its relied upon so far. After Hiscox has reconsidered this claim, any 
payment of the claim should be made for the full value of the lost ring less the policy excess. 
Hiscox should also add 8% simple interest per year from the date the claim was made until 
the date of settlement.
In addition to the above, Im satisfied that an award of compensation is warranted given the 
experience Mrs and Mr C had here. I can see that our investigator has recommended that 
Hiscox pay £100 to recognise the distress and inconvenience they were caused. Ive 
assessed whether that amount is fair and reasonable.
We arent here to punish businesses and I think its important to explain that when our 
service awards payments for trouble and upset we look at the overall impact on the people 
involved. 
 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs and Mr C have said here about how they were affected 
by Hiscoxs decision to repudiate their claim. Theyve spent a fair amount of time in raising 
their complaint with Hiscox and in bringing their complaint to our service. I acknowledge their 
inconvenience in doing so and appreciate that this has taken up a lot of everyones time. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the compensation recommended by our 
investigator is a fair and reasonable amount to resolve this complaint. Its in line with awards 
made by our service in comparable circumstances and its what I would have directed 
Hiscox to pay had no recommendation been made. Im therefore going to require Hiscox to 
pay £100 compensation to Mrs and Mr C.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited to carry out the following redress:1. Reconsider Mrs and Mr Cs claim without reference to the policy limits its previously 
relied on. After its reconsidered their claim, any payment of the claim should be 
made for the full value of the lost ring less the policy excess. 
2. Pay 8% simple interest* on the amount of any claim it pays from the date of the claim 
until the date of settlement.
3. Pay £100 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset Mrs and Mr C were caused 
as a result of their claim being repudiated.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Hiscox Insurance Company Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Hiscox Insurance Company Limited must give Mrs and Mr C a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off it if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman