DRN-3284364
The complaint
Mr S has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc suspended his credit card on the 
basis of persistent debt.
What happened
In October 2020, NatWest wrote to Mr S. They said that because his credit card had been in 
persistent debt for 36 months, they planned to suspend the account unless he cleared the 
full balance within the next 6 months. They also offered several repayment options over a 
longer period, though those wouldnt stop the card from being suspended.
Mr S pointed out that hed already been bringing his balance down. He agreed to one of 
NatWests proposed repayment plans, but didnt want his card to be suspended. Mr S 
complained, but NatWest said they were following the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) 
guidance about accounts in persistent debt.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S 
didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr S and NatWest a provisional decision on 1 December 2021, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
First provisional decision
When a customer pays close to the minimum payment each month for a long period, they 
can end up in whats considered persistent debt  where theyre paying more towards 
interest and charges each month than towards the actual capital, and so they make quite 
little progress towards clearing the debt.
The FCA issued rules about how businesses should manage accounts that are in persistent 
debt. Those included sending letters to explain the account was in persistent debt and to set 
out what monthly payments the customer could make to get it out of that state. The letters 
should also tell customers about what might happen if the account remains in persistent debt 
 which can include the account getting suspended or put in a payment plan to clear it in four 
years or less.
NatWest argue that they followed the FCAs rules by sending the appropriate letters to Mr S. 
They say that, while he did agree to increased repayments that would clear the account in 
four years or less, they still felt it was right to suspend his account to help make sure that the 
balance came down and that he paid less interest.
I do understand NatWests point of view. But I would point them towards the follow-up 
guidance from the FCA. This referenced how businesses should treat customers considered 
to be in 36 months worth of persistent debt (or PD36 customers) like Mr S was here. It also 
went into more detail about when it was  or wasnt  appropriate to suspend the account.
Regarding this, the guidance said:
"We are also concerned that some firms may be planning a 'blanket' suspension of credit cards for all 
their PD36 customers. The PD rules only require the suspension of cancellation of cards where a 
customer:
a) does not respond to the repayment options proposed within the time specified by the firm;
b) confirms that one or more of the proposed options are affordable but that they will not make the 
increased payments.
We remind firms that  when they choose to suspend or cancel a customer's access to credit they 
must serve customers with a notice giving reasons for this, and those reasons must be objectively 
justified.
There is no regulatory requirement (outside of those mentioned above) that a card must be 
suspended where a customer is in persistent debt, so an objective justification could not rely on such 
a requirement."
In this case, Mr S did respond to the repayment options proposed, and within the time 
specified. And he did increase his repayments as a result. So clause (a) does not seem to 
apply here.
Clause (b) doesnt apply either. Mr S did not confirm that an option was affordable but refuse 
to take it.
We asked NatWest what their objective justification was for suspending Mr Ss card. Their 
justification was, in effect, that Mr S was in persistent debt and they didnt wish for him to pay 
more interest than he needed to. But as above, the account being in persistent debt cant be 
used as an objective justification for suspension in and of itself  since clauses (a) and (b) 
dont apply here.
Id also note that, by the point NatWest suspended Mr Ss account, hed already reduced his 
spending and increased his repayments some time ago. So over the prior year, hed brought 
his balance down by over £1,000. This makes it rather difficult for me to accept that NatWest 
were reasonably concerned about Mr Ss recent account management, or that they 
reasonably thought his behaviour meant hed struggle to repay the balance over time.
Taking everything into account: while I accept that NatWest may have been trying to help 
Mr S by suspending his account, I dont think they had the objective justification needed to 
do so, and I dont think it was ultimately fair on him. It follows that I think the suspension 
should be removed.Ive also thought carefully about whether NatWest should pay Mr S compensation. Its worth 
bearing in mind that were not here to punish or fine businesses. And I think NatWest were 
trying to act in what they perceived to be Mr Ss favour, even if I dont agree with their 
approach in his case. I also note that Mr S had been deliberately not using this card for 
some time  in which case I wouldnt think its suspension wouldve caused him substantial 
enough harm to warrant compensation. So I dont plan to award anything further here.
Putting things right
I propose that National Westminster Bank Plc removes any suspension or related restriction 
from Mr Ss card, such that he can continue to use the account while continuing to make 
reasonable payments to reduce its balance.
Both sides replied explaining that the account was now permanently closed. On 6 January 
2022, I issued a second provisional decision, explaining how I thought the complaint 
should be resolved instead:
Second provisional decision
To summarise, both sides explained that the account had been closed for good and this 
could not be undone.
Mr S also added that he had now repaid about £2,000. This does tend to reinforce that 
NatWest did not have the objective justification needed to suspend his account, let alone to 
close it permanently.
NatWest explained that they closed Mr Ss account because they felt he was too over-
indebted and it would not be right to lend to him further. I can see their perspective, but I find 
this line of reasoning a bit concerning. 
Closing Mr Ss account permanently was a rather drastic measure. If NatWest really felt he 
was so over-indebted, and that he presented such a large risk  despite his recent payment 
behaviour  that it justified permanently shutting his account down, then it raises the 
question of why they are still charging him interest going forward.
It seems NatWest are trying to have their cake and eat it, too. On the one hand, they are 
saying that it would be irresponsible to lend to Mr S, that they want him to clear his account 
faster and dont want him paying large amounts of interest, and that his situation is so severe 
that it justifies permanently closing his account. Yet on the other hand, they still feel he is in 
a good enough situation that they are entitled to charge him interest on the full balance, to 
extend his indebtedness, and to continue to profit off an account that Mr S can no longer use 
himself. That does not seem very fair or reasonable.
My original proposal was to redress this imbalance by reopening the account. As that is no 
longer a possibility, I need to consider how to redress this imbalance from the other side  
i.e. in regard to interest and charges.NatWest offered to reduce the interest rate, but they have not provided any specifics. And it 
still begs the question why they should be entitled to charge interest anymore at all in this 
situation. Freezing the interest and charges would be a normal form of forbearance. NatWest 
also suggested Mr S could apply for a new credit card. But that carries no guarantee  he 
may well get turned down and that would only make his credit file worse off. And he could 
have done that regardless of the outcome of this case. So I dont consider that a resolution 
to this complaint.
Further, Mr S has asked us to revisit the compensation issue. I previously did not think that 
compensation was warranted, given that this only appeared to be a suspension of his facility. 
But since NatWest has not temporarily suspended his account, but closed it permanently, 
that does change things. Permanently depriving Mr S of his credit facility is a significant 
inconvenience, and I understand its caused him some upset too.
Taking everything together, I think it would be fair for NatWest to refund any interest or fees 
charged from the point they permanently closed Mr Ss account. They should then freeze 
interest and fees going forward. I think this would effectively redress the unfairness of the 
current situation, as well as effectively compensating Mr S.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
3 February 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my second provisional decision, NatWest explained that they still felt theyd 
followed the proper process in terms of the persistent debt, including charging interest. But 
they said they were happy to comply with the settlement in order to resolve things for Mr S, 
and they were grateful their comments had been taken into account.
Mr S also said he was happy with the second provisional decision. He felt NatWests 
reasoning hadnt been good enough. He raised wider concerns about how NatWest might be 
handling persistent debt issues in general. 
In regard to Mr Ss wider concerns, I do understand why he brought this up. As our 
investigator explained, I can only consider individual complaints about individual situations, 
and this decision is about Mr Ss case specifically. So while I take his comments on board, 
Im not best placed to address those concerns here. And as he suggested himself, Mr S can 
also bring his concerns to the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA for short). We 
also work with the FCA and pass our complaints data to them. 
Otherwise, both sides have broadly agreed to my second provisional decision, and Im 
grateful for their co-operation. Further, having reconsidered things again, Ive not seen a 
good reason to depart from my last set of conclusions. So Ive come to the same conclusion 
as in my second provisional decision, and for the same reasons, as set out above.
Putting things right
I direct National Westminster Bank Plc to:Rework the credit card account to remove any interest or fees added from the date 
they closed it; and-
Freeze the interest and fees going forward.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to put things right in the 
way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman