DRN-4319298
The complaint
Mr N complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) treated him unfairly 
following a claim for the theft of his vehicle.
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here.
Mr N made a claim for a stolen vehicle insured with Admiral. Admiral investigated the 
circumstances of the claim and as part of its investigation asked Mr N for further information 
relating to the theft. Mr N told Admiral which area the vehicle was parked in but didnt have 
the full address. He said he visited a friends house nearby where he was drinking with some 
friends. After the night finished, Mr N said he took the train home but didnt notice his car 
outside. Another friend then came to collect Mr N in the early morning so he could collect his 
vehicle, but his vehicle wasnt there. Admiral said Mr N wasnt able to evidence who he was 
with or how he got home, including details of his friend who took him to collect his vehicle in 
the morning. Based on the information Mr N gave, Admiral said they werent satisfied that 
the theft had happened in the way Mr N reported it. 
During the investigation, Mr Ns vehicle was recovered. The vehicle was inspected and there 
was smoke coming from the engine. Admiral said there were no signs of any theft related 
damage. Further investigation led Admiral to believe that the vehicle already had issues with 
its engine which was pre-existing and therefore wasnt covered under Mr Ns policy. Admiral 
therefore declined Mr Ns claim. 
Mr N thought Admiral were being unfair by not paying his claim. He said that Admiral had 
made a number of assumptions about the claim in order to refuse cover, so he complained 
to Admiral  but they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr N then brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, and an investigator looked at 
what happened. The investigator concluded that he thought Admiral were justified in their 
decision not to provide cover, given the findings of their investigation.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators findings, he said that the vehicle had also been 
returned with damage to the gearbox which was not present before it was stolen. Mr N also 
said the vehicle had been in storage and incurred £850 of storage fees as well as having a 
theft marker placed on it  so he felt he had been left substantially worse off than before the 
theft claim.
The investigator asked Admiral to comment on the points Mr N raised but Admiral said it 
wasnt aware of these issues  but it offered to undertake a further examination of the 
vehicle in order to determine whether new damage had occurred. Admiral attempted to 
contact Mr N but werent able to inspect the vehicle. Mr N said the vehicle has been 
scrapped now. 
Ultimately, Mr N felt that the policy should have responded to the claim as he paid for the 
policy in good faith and was unhappy as he felt that Admiral made a number of assumptions 
about the circumstances when he originally reported the claim to them.
Mr N disagreed with our investigator, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain that Ive read and taken into account all of the 
information provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something 
thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it 
relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but 
merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This 
also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every 
question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
When Mr N reported the theft claim, Admiral as the insurer were entitled to carry out an 
investigation to check that the claim was one it would cover under the terms of the policy. Im 
satisfied that during the investigation of the claim Admiral asked reasonable questions for 
further information so they could validate Mr Ns claim. Admiral said Mr N was unable to give 
sufficient information. I can see that Mr N did provide a response to Admirals request for 
information, but Admiral wasnt satisfied with Mr Ns responses and the level of detail 
provided about the circumstances of the theft. 
While the claim was still being investigated, Mr Ns vehicle was recovered and therefore, the 
claim was no longer for the loss of the vehicle as such. Admiral said the vehicle was 
recovered with damage and therefore investigated the circumstances of the theft as reported 
by Mr N and whether the damage was related to the theft. Mr N was unhappy with how long 
the investigation lasted and he said the vehicle was deemed a total loss so Admiral should 
pay out. 
Admiral instructed a garage to inspect the vehicle which reported smoke coming from the 
engine. Admiral also spoke to the previous owner of the vehicle at which point they 
discovered that there was pre-existing damage to the engine which wouldnt be covered 
under Mr Ns policy. Admiral therefore declined Mr Ns claim. Mr N said the pre-existing 
damage had been repaired but he wasnt able to evidence the repairs. 
In situations like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what do I think is more likely than not, given 
the evidence which is available and the wider circumstances.
It is not known whether the pre-existing issues with the engine had been repaired or not. But 
on a balance of probability, given that the previous owner also confirmed there were 
pre-existing issues with the engine which were costly, and Mr N hasnt been able to 
evidence any repairs, I think its more likely than not those issues were still present. As such, 
I think Admirals decision to decline cover was fair and reasonable. 
Following the investigators view, Mr N told him that hed also incurred storage charges for 
around £850 and the vehicle was returned with damage to the gearbox as well. I note that 
Mr N hasnt raised either of these issues with Admiral and so I havent made a finding on 
them. Having considered the circumstances of this complaint very carefully, Im persuaded that 
Admirals decision to decline Mr Ns claim was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman