DRN-3600650
The complaint
Ms M complains that OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance failed to set up a 
payment holiday. It then called and sent letters about her arrears. Ms M asks for 
compensation of £1,500 for the anxiety and upset this caused.
What happened
Ms M took out a mortgage in 2007 which has since been transferred to Kent Reliance. She 
sent an email in December 2020 asking for a payment holiday. This wasnt put in place and 
she received letters and calls about the arrears. 
Kent Reliance said it overlooked the email. Once it received Ms Ms complaint it apologised 
and offered £200 for the upset caused. It stopped any further action and removed related 
charges. It sent a letter which confirmed the payment deferral would be in place for January 
to March 2021. This letter said monthly payments would increase after the payment deferral 
ended.
Ms M asked that we require Kent Reliance to pay interest on compensation it had offered in 
relation to previous complaints and which she says she accepted but didnt receive. 
Ms M raised other points which weve explained we cant look into as they hadnt been 
brought to us within our time limits. 
Our investigator said Kent Reliance responded fairly to Ms Ms complaint and didnt need to 
do more. 
Ms M didnt agree. She said Kent Reliance had instructed a field agent to contact her. She 
provided evidence in the form of a mobile phone number and said shed seen the field agent 
leave her house when she was parking outside. She said she had accepted Kent Reliances 
previous offers of compensation and it must have misplaced it. She said she accepted the 
£450 offered for this and previous complaints. 
Ms M said she was selling the property. Shed like Kent Reliance to agree to settle the loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While both Ms M and Kent Reliance use the term payment holiday, Im going to use the term 
payment deferral. I think this better describes what happens. The lender agrees that the 
borrower doesnt have to make payments for an agreed period, but these payments do still 
need to be made. They are simply deferred for a period. Theres no requirement for a lender 
to freeze or waive interest during a payment deferral.
I should also say that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Kent Reliance accepts that it made an error. It overlooked Ms Ms email asking for a 
payment holiday. This resulted in Ms M being contacted about the arrears, which she found 
upsetting. So I need to decide if it did enough to put matters right.
Kent Reliance wrote to Ms M in early February 2021 about the missed payment. It asked her 
to make the payment or contact it to set up an arrangement. The letter said if it hadnt heard 
from Ms M within seven days it would consider taking recovery action.
It also sent a quarterly arrears statement in February 2021, but this wasnt an error, or 
related to the error with the payment deferral. This was intended to give Ms M up to date 
information about her account.
Kent Reliance wrote to Ms M on 18 March 2021 confirming the payment deferral. This said 
that interest would continue to accrue. This would mean shed pay more interest overall. It 
said it would write to her about her options for repaying the unpaid amounts. 
Ms M says she didnt receive this letter. Its unfortunate Ms M didnt receive the letter, but 
based on the available evidence I think Kent Reliance sent it to her. The payment deferral 
was backdated  which meant the letter was sent after the payment deferral was in place. 
But I havent seen anything to suggest Ms M wouldnt have taken the payment deferral if 
shed known interest would continue to accrue, or that she was misled about this. As Ive 
said, there was no requirement for Kent Reliance to waive interest. I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable to require it to do so here.
Ms M says shes worried that Kent Reliance will send a debt collector to her house. She 
says this happened in the past even though shed been maintaining payments. Im sorry that 
Ms M is anxious about this. I know Ms M believes a field agent instructed by Kent Reliance 
contacted her by phone and visited her house in early 2021. Unfortunately, she cant find the 
note he put through the door. Ms M sent a photo of a letter she received from a debt 
management services business asking her to get in contact. Unfortunately, the photo quality 
is poor and the date isnt visible. We asked for a better copy, but Ms M hasnt provided this.
Kent Reliance says it didnt instruct a field agent at that time. If it had instructed a field agent, 
Id except it to have a record of this and to have applied a fee. In fact, Kent Reliances 
records for February 2021 say a field agent wasnt instructed as the account was to be 
reviewed. It's possible the person Ms M saw visiting her house was a third party not related 
to Kent Reliance. On balance, I dont think that Kent Reliance sent a debt collector or field 
agent to Ms Ms house in early 2021. 
Kent Reliance says it sent a letter to Ms M saying it intended to instruct a field agent. It says 
this was an error and offered £100 compensation for the upset this caused. I can understand 
that this letter added to Ms Ms worry about a visit from a field agent, and its right that Kent 
Reliance pays compensation. I think £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Kent Reliance says its specialist support team is looking after Ms Ms account, and has tried 
to contact her. If Ms M wants to discuss settling the account, or what support Kent Reliance 
can offer, Id urge her to remain in contact with Kent Reliance.
Ms M says she accepted previous offers of compensation from Kent Reliance but hadnt 
received the payments. Kent Reliance said it didnt receive her acceptances. The available 
the evidence suggests that in at least one instance Ms M told Kent Reliance she didnt 
accept the offer. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Kent Reliance to pay interest 
on this compensation. However, Kent Reliance said it was still open for Ms M to accept 
these offers. I leave it to Ms M to decide whether she wants to do so.Putting things right
Kent Reliance made an error when it overlooked Ms Ms email asking for a payment deferral. 
This resulted in Ms M being contacted about the arrears, which she found upsetting. When it 
became aware of the error, Kent Reliance put the payment deferral in place and put a hold 
on collection activity. It offered £200 compensation for the upset caused. In the 
circumstances, I think this is fair and reasonable. 
As I said, I think £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for the upset caused by Kent 
Reliance sending a letter suggesting it would instruct a field agent.
My final decision
My decision is that OneSavings Bank Plc should pay £300 to Ms M, as it offered to do. It can 
deduct any amount already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman