DRN-4049534
The complaint
Mr M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a
conditional sale agreement (agreement) he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr M acquired a used car costing £10,995 financed by an agreement from
Moneybarn.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr M undertook to make
1 advance payment of £300 followed by 55 monthly repayments of £386.39. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £21,551.45 at an APR of 39.9%.
Mr M says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks before agreeing to 
lend to him. He says if it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. 
Moneybarn didnt agree. It said it had performed several different checks before agreeing to 
lend which included:
a full credit search (with a credit reference agency) which provided details of Mr Ms
current borrowing levels and repayment history (including any arrears and defaults)
an independent check of Mr Ms declared net monthly income of £1,550 (with a
credit reference agency)
the use of statistical data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to estimate
Mr Ms level of non-discretionary expenditure (including housing, council tax utilities
and vehicle costs)
the use of information (from a credit reference agency) to assess Mr Ms ongoing
monthly borrowing commitments
Moneybarn said that from the above checks it was able to establish:
Mr Ms existing borrowing was low
Mr M hadnt missed any credit repayments
Mr M had defaults registered against him  
Mr M had no county court judgements registered against him
Mr M hadnt been declared bankrupt or insolvent
Mr Ms net monthly income was £1,550 as declared by him
Mr Ms non-discretionary expenditure had been estimated at £783.43
Mr Ms current borrowing commitments were £12 a month
Mr M had a disposable income of £714.70 (being £1,550 less £783.43 less £12 less 
£39.87 [an additional allowance for any variations in the figures of £783.43 and £12])
its lending, at a monthly cost of £386.39, equated to 54.06% of Mr Ms calculated
net disposable income
Moneybarn also pointed out that Mr M signed to say that his net monthly income was no
less than £1,550 and his non-discretionary expenditure was no more than £783.43.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
He said that Moneybarn could and should have undertaken further checks into Mr Ms 
financial position and personal circumstances before it agreed to lend. And had it done so it 
would have, or should have, concluded it wasnt (on the grounds of affordability) appropriate 
to lend to him. He then went on to explain what Moneybarn should do to fairly and 
reasonably compensate Mr M.
Moneybarn responded to the investigators view to say it accepted it. Mr M responded to say 
that although he was pleased that his complaint had been upheld he would possibly like to 
keep the car rather than having to return it.
Because Mr M didnt accept the investigators compensation proposal his complaint has 
been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given what the investigator concluded and given what Mr M and Moneybarn have said in 
response to that conclusion, all I need to decide in this case is what, if anything, Moneybarn 
should have to do to fairly and reasonably compensate Mr M. 
But for the avoidance of doubt, I would like to make it clear that I agree with the investigator 
(and for the same reasons) that Moneybarn could and should have undertaken further 
checks into Mr Ms financial position and personal circumstances before it agreed to lend to 
him. And had it done so, it would have, or should have, concluded it wasnt appropriate to 
lend. 
The investigator said that to fairly and reasonably compensate Mr M Moneybarn should:
end the agreement and collect the car with nothing further to pay.
refund the deposit together with interest
calculate how much Mr M has paid in total and deduct £3,610.00 from this sum for 
fair usage 
if Mr M has paid more than the fair usage figure, it should refund any excess 
together with interestif Mr M has paid less that the fair usage figure, it should arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for the shortfall, treating Mr M with forbearance and due 
consideration
remove any adverse information recorded by it with any third party credit reference 
agencies
Moneybarn agreed with the above, but Mr M says he would like to keep the car  giving 
reasons for wanting to do so.
Now I can understand the reasons Mr M has given for possibly wanting to keep the car. But 
given how much he needs to pay Moneybarn to get to the point where he will be in the 
position of having paid it £10,695 (the capital sum borrowed at 0%) Im simply not persuaded 
that this is appropriate, fair or reasonable. And when deciding what is fair and reasonable I 
need to have regards to what is fair and reasonable to Moneybarn as well as Mr M. I would 
also point out that if Mr M accepts this final decision although he will no longer be in 
possession the car he is currently in possession of, he should be in the position of being able 
to purchase (whether in cash or on credit) another one.
So, in summary, I can confirm that Im in agreement with the investigators view that this 
complaint should be upheld and, subject to what I say below, I can confirm that Im in 
agreement with what the investigator concluded Moneybarn should have to do to fairly and 
reasonably compensate Mr M. And for the avoidance of any doubt, I would like to confirm 
that I agree with the investigator (and for the same reasons) that £190 represents an 
appropriate sum to be used for fair usage.
Putting things right
To fairly and reasonably compensate Mr M Moneybarn must:
end the agreement with nothing further for Mr M to pay
collect the car at no cost to Mr M
refund Mr M the deposit he paid, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
calculate how much Mr M has paid under the agreement and deduct £190 a month 
for fair usage for each month Mr M has had the car, or continues to have the car 
between the date of this (final) decision and the car being collected from him
if Mr M has paid more than the fair usage figure, it should refund any overpayments, 
adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
if Mr M has paid less than the fair usage figure, it should arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for the shortfall, treating Mr M with forbearance and due 
consideration
remove any adverse information it has recorded in respect of the agreement with any 
third party credit reference agencies
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr M asks for one
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to 
compensate Mr M as outlined by me above under the heading Putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman