DRN-3435863
The complaint
Mr M, acting on behalf of the estate of Miss M, complains that Honeycomb Finance Limited 
mis-sold Miss M a fixed sum loan agreement.
What happened
In September 2019, the late Miss M entered into a 24-month fixed sum loan agreement with 
Honeycomb Finance to acquire a boiler. Mr M says that Miss M was vulnerable and couldnt 
afford the agreement. He said there was a power of attorney in place to prevent her being 
sold agreements of this type.
Honeycomb Finance issued a final response letter in July 2020 not upholding the complaint. 
It said that the late Miss Ms loan application confirmed she was retired and a homeowner 
with an annual income of £18.750. It said checks were carried out and the loan was auto 
approved.  
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that based on the information provided 
he didnt have enough to say the agreement was unaffordable. He also didnt think the 
existence of the power of attorney meant that the agreement couldnt be entered into.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that the late Miss M wasnt a 
homeowner and the agreement wasnt affordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a regulated firm, Honeycomb Finance will be aware of all the rules, regulations, guidance 
and good industry practice applicable to the provision of these agreements. So, I dont think 
its necessary to set it all out here. There is more information about our general approach to 
complaints about unaffordable lending on our website.
I have looked through the information gathered by Honeycomb Finance to assess whether I 
consider the checks were proportionate. The final response letter from Honeycomb Finance 
notes the late Miss M as having an annual income of £18,750. The affordability check 
provided an annual calculated income of £7,260 which Honeycomb Finance said was 
sufficient for the loan to be considered affordable. A credit check was also carried out. This 
showed that there were no county court judgements in place but that there was one 
defaulted account. The defaulted account was recorded around 12 months prior to the 
application and had been settled a couple months after it was recorded. I dont think the 
other information in the credit report raised concerns.
While I note that the application was auto accepted, I think in this case it would have been 
reasonable to carry out further checks to ensure that the loan repayments were affordable. 
The default could have suggested that the late Miss M had experienced previous financial 
difficulty and I think it would have been reasonable to check both income and expenses to 
ensure the lending was affordable.
Mr M has confirmed that the late Miss M didnt own her home and was living rent free. He 
provided copies of her bank statements. While I dont think Honeycomb Finance was 
required to gather copies of bank statements before providing the loan, I do think further 
checks should have taken place and so I have relied on the information included in the 
statements to support what would most likely have been identified had further checks taken 
place. 
Having reviewed bank statements for the three months leading up to the agreement, these 
show income from benefits averaging over £1,500 a month. This provides an annual income 
in line with the amount Honeycomb Finance said was included in the late Miss Ms 
application. The bank statements do not show signs of financial difficulty, such as returned 
direct debits. I note the comments Mr M has made about the expenses noted in the bank 
statements and the need to account for other living costs but having looked through the 
information, considered the regular commitment expenses, and taking into account other 
living costs, I do not find that I have enough to say that had Honeycomb Finance carried out 
further checks it would have found the agreement was unaffordable. 
In conclusion, I am sorry for Mr Ms loss and I understand his concerns about the loan 
agreement and its affordability for the late Miss M, but having looked through the evidence I 
do not find I have enough to say that the loan agreement was unaffordable at the time it was 
provided. I further note that the agreement was at a zero rate of interest and was to pay for a 
boiler which the late Miss M would have had the benefit of. Therefore, in this case I do not 
uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
M to accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman