DRN-2894546
The complaint
Miss S complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with her chargeback.
What happened
Miss S asked Barclays to make a chargeback for a holiday booking made to a company that
stopped trading. She paid £250 for a deposit but was told by Barclays that she needed to
make a claim via her insurance company. Miss S says she was refunded the £250 but it was
later deducted and was told she had been refunded the money. In summary Miss S
complains about how her request was dealt with and for the conflicting information she was
given. Miss S would like the £250 refunded to her and compensation for the distress and
inconvenience she was caused at a difficult time due to a family bereavement.
Barclays says it credited the £250 in August 2020 but deducted the money in November
2020 when the chargeback was rejected. It accepts it didnt handle the chargeback as it
should have and so paid £250 to Miss S. It has also paid £30 compensation.
Miss S brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The
investigator thought Barclays had paid Miss S the £250 as well as £30 compensation which
she thought appropriate. The investigator accepted Barclays had made mistakes but had put
Miss S back in the position she would have been in. The investigator thought that as there
were no copies of a chat conversation that it would be difficult to conclude that Barclays
had given Miss S incorrect information.
Miss S doesnt accept that view and says Barclays didnt explain what was going on and
ought to have told her to keep the first payment of £250. She says the inconvenience was
significant.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that the compensation paid by 
Barclays didnt go far enough or reflect the impact of what took place on Miss S. For those 
reasons I thought Barclays should increase its compensation offer to a total of £100.
I said there was no question here that Barclays didnt deal appropriately with what I thought
was a relatively straightforward chargeback request. I thought it clear the company Miss S
booked her holiday through stopped trading and that she was advised to raise a chargeback
and or raise a claim via the protection scheme. I could see from Barclays records that it
accepts it made mistakes dealing with the chargeback and didnt appropriately challenge
what the merchant said. I could also see that Barclays accepts that Miss S is likely to have
been successful in receiving the £250 back and that is the reason it refunded that amount.
I was satisfied Barclays acted fairly by refunding the £250 and by apologising for what took
place. I didnt think Barclays made a mistake by deducting the original £250 that had been
credited to Miss Ss account and was satisfied that Miss S did receive the £250. I thought it 
up to Barclays to decide how it dealt with the temporary refund and can see it wrote to Miss 
S telling her what it was doing.
I said the key issue was the level of compensation. I had no doubt Miss S spent some time 
trying to sort matters out and made a number of calls to Barclays at what I accept was a 
difficult time for her. So, I was satisfied Miss S was caused distress and inconvenience and 
would have been caused frustration by Barclays telling her she needed to make an 
insurance claim. I didnt think £30 compensation takes all of those matters into account or 
reflects the level of inconvenience and distress caused.
My provisional view was that Barclays should pay a further £70 compensation which I 
thought in the circumstances would be fair and reasonable.
Both Barclays and Miss S have accepted my provisional view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. 
Putting things right
Barclays should pay a further £70 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Miss 
S £70 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman