DRN-4124243
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Zurich Insurance Company Ltd withdrew her buildings insurance policy 
and overcharged her for many years.
What happened
Mrs J had a Zurich buildings insurance policy. In January 2023, Zurich told Mrs J it was 
withdrawing this policy and was unable to renew her cover. Mrs J was unhappy with this and 
complained to Zurich. She also said Zurich had overcharged her for this insurance for 
decades.
Zurich didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint. In summary:
It apologised for any inconvenience and referred Mrs J to an insurance broker for 
help finding alternative cover.
It also told Mrs J she could find her own broker and suggested how she might do this.
It didnt agree that it should refund any part of Mrs Js annual premiums.
It said Mrs J had called to discuss her renewal quote in 2015, 2016, 2018, and 2022. 
Following those discussions, she decided to renew her cover.
It told her she could shop around for alternative cover at each renewal.
Mrs J was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She doesnt think 
Zurich has treated her fairly and believes it should refund overpayments over many years.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Js complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Mrs J had discussed her premium quotes with Zurich and agreed to renew her policy 
each year. He also said this service couldnt consider Mrs Js pre-2015 premiums.
Mrs J disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J says she doesnt believe we can only go back six years or that we need Zurichs 
permission to do so. The rules that govern the jurisdiction of this service are the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA)s Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP). DISP 2.8.2 says we cant 
consider a complaint referred to us more than six years after the event complained of, or 
more than three years after the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have 
become been aware) that they had cause for complaint.
I think our investigator has explained the situation very well. In summary:
Zurich reviewed Mrs Js premiums back to 2015. 
It says its internal records show that Mrs J called to discuss her renewal quotes in 
2015, 2016, 2018, and 2022. 
That means Mrs J would have been aware that she might have had cause for 
complaint about her pre-2015 premiums in 2015. 
This is more than six years before she referred her complaint about those premiums 
to this service, and more than three years after she ought reasonably to have been 
aware she had cause for complaint.
That means Mrs Js complaint about her pre-2015 premiums is outside the time limits 
set out in DISP 2.8.2.
Given the above, Im satisfied that this service cant consider Mrs Js complaint about her 
pre-2015 premiums.
Ive looked at Mrs Js complaint about her premiums since 2015. Its important to note that 
this service cant tell an insurer how it should price risk or what an insurance policy should 
cost. The risk of insuring a property is Zurichs to take on, so its right that it  like any insurer 
 can decide how it assesses and prices risk. We generally accept that an insurer can 
charge what it likes for insurance so long as it acts fairly. This means, among other things, 
applying its pricing model consistently and giving policyholders the chance to shop around 
and seek a lower premium from another insurer.
Zurich has shown that it discussed Mrs Js premium with her at renewals in 2015, 2016, 
2018, and 2022. The discussion in 2015 led to a 10% premium discount. Zurich has also 
shown that it reduced Mrs Js premium in 2019 and 2020, froze it in 2021, and reduced it 
again in 2022. And its shown that it told Mrs J that she was entitled to shop around to see if 
she could find cheaper cover each year. Im satisfied that Zurich gave Mrs J all the 
information she needed to decide whether she wanted to renew her policy each year. 
Finally, Zurich explained that it took a commercial decision to withdraw the type of policy Mrs 
J had. While inconvenient for Mrs J, this is a decision Zurich is entitled to make. 
For these reasons, I dont think Zurich has treated Mrs J unfairly. It follows that I dont uphold 
her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman