DRN-4451725
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Citibank UK Limited failed to provide him with a tax statement for his 
joint account with Mrs C. He also complains that when he requested it, he was given 
incorrect information.
What happened
Earlier this year, Mr C contacted Citibank to request an annual tax statement as he 
explained this hadnt been sent to him. He says that Citibank incorrectly told him the account 
hadnt accrued any interest, so there was no tax statement to send to him. He then had to 
contact his relationship manager who initially sent the wrong tax statement, but he was 
eventually provided with the information hed requested.
Unhappy with this, Mr C raised a complaint. He felt that if it wasnt for him insisting that hed 
been given the wrong information, he couldve been in trouble with the tax office. He said it 
wasnt the first time Citibank failed to send him a tax statement as hes had to contact them 
every year for the past few years to request it. He also expressed his worry about how hed 
get in touch with Citibank for the tax statement again next year after they exit the market in 
the United Kingdom.
Citibank said they hadnt made an error. They explained that tax statements are 
automatically sent to the primary holder named on the account, in this case, Mrs C. They 
confirmed there were no discrepancies with the tax statements that were shared with Mr C. 
They also updated Mr Cs email address as the primary email address to receive 
correspondence relating to the account, such as tax statements, as per Mr Cs request.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. Following this, Citibank made an offer of £100 as 
a gesture of goodwill. Our investigator said Citibank acted in line with the terms and 
conditions when sending the statements to Mrs C. But he thought they couldve handled the 
situation better and thought that Mr C was caused distress and inconvenience by the 
customer service provided. He felt it was appropriate for Citibank to pay £150 in 
compensation.
Citibank disagreed with our investigator. They accepted they made an error but felt theyd 
offered fair compensation to resolve the case following the guidance set out on our website. 
They explained Mr C didnt have a monetary impact and they rectified their error immediately 
after Mr C raised it.
Mr C also didnt agree with the compensation amount of £150, as he felt it wasnt enough. 
He explained Citibank had breached the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principle 6 and he 
didnt feel treated fairly. He explained Citibank had only offered compensation after he 
referred the matter to our service despite him spending around three hours trying to resolve 
his concerns. 
He explained he wasnt complaining for the money, but to ensure Citibank treats other 
customers right and wont put anyone else in a position to declare incorrect taxes.
He asked to be adequately compensated for the time hes spent for something that 
shouldve happened automatically without him asking for it. He also felt the redress should 
consider the systemic failure over the past few years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the account explains that Citibank will send statements 
electronically. They also set out that for joint accounts, the statements will be sent or made 
available to the first named joint account holder. 
I can see from the account statements that Mrs C is the primary account holder, so the 
statements relating to the account would be sent to her, rather than Mr C. This also explains 
why Mr C didnt receive the tax statements in the previous tax years.
Since Citibank have acted as per the terms and conditions of the account in how they send 
statements for joint accounts, I cant fairly say theyve done something wrong in not sending 
the statements to Mr C directly.
That said, I agree Citibank have let Mr C down with the customer service they gave to him. 
Ive taken into account the impact on Mr C to decide a fair amount of compensation. Having 
done so, Im satisfied £150 compensation is fair and reasonable to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience Mr C was caused. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute between both parties that Mr C was given the incorrect information when 
he first asked Citibank for the tax statement. It was Citibanks responsibility to ensure their 
staff are aware of how their systems work and how statements are sent on joint accounts. 
I can understand why being told the account didnt accrue any interest wouldve been 
confusing for Mr C. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr C to have worried about the 
consequences here, as this couldve resulted in him declaring his tax returns with the wrong 
information he was provided.
Im pleased to see Mr C mitigated the impact on him by raising the matter with his 
relationship manager. I think it was reasonable to expect him to do so given that he was 
aware his account earned interest and had previously requested tax statements for the 
account. This meant Mr C was able to avoid any financial loss and penalties for declaring his 
tax returns inaccurately.
Mr C has indicated that the tax statement he was initially given was incorrect. At first, 
Citibank said they didnt find any discrepancies, but have since accepted he was sent an 
incorrect statement. Both parties agree that Mr C was eventually sent the statements he 
required via his relationship manager. Mr C also confirmed receipt of them a couple of days 
after he was sent the incorrect statement. I think experiencing further issues with receiving 
these documents wouldve added to the frustration, annoyance and inconvenience Mr C was 
caused.
I think Citibank missed an opportunity to address the concerns Mr C had raised around 
being given the incorrect information and the impact this had on him. I can understand Mr 
Cs disappointment and why he feels like Citibank didnt care nor took his complaint 
seriously. Looking at the timeline of events, it took Mr C just under two weeks to receive the tax 
statements hed requested from his initial call to Citibank. While this is longer than Id expect 
to see for a straightforward request, I dont think the delays were significantly prolonged.
Citibank have addressed Mr Cs concern about the same issue cropping up next year by 
updating his email address as the primary email address on the account, so he should 
receive all statements relating to the account. Although, I understand that Mr C has now 
moved his banking elsewhere.
I accept Mr C was caused some degree of inconvenience in contacting Citibank in previous 
tax years to request a tax statement. I think Citibank couldve done more to proactively 
inform Mr C about how their systems work which meant statements would only be sent to 
Mrs C. But I dont think the inconvenience to Mr C was more than you might expect when 
dealing with a financial organisation or carrying out banking activities. I think this is 
supported by the fact that Mr C didnt complain about Citibank not sending him statements 
much sooner. 
 
I appreciate Mr C feels the compensation amount should be higher, but taking everything 
into account, I dont think the impact on him was significant enough to warrant further 
compensation. Im satisfied £150 compensation is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Citibank UK Limited should pay 
Mr C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman