DRN-3893581
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money she lost when the was 
the victim of a scam, and about the customer service she received when she raised her 
claim.
What happened
In April 2022, a friend of Mrs As on a social media platform suggested she try an investment 
company they had been using. Mrs A spoke with the investment company and was happy to 
make an investment. So she sent £2,002.99 via an online payment service to the bank 
details the investment company gave her. Unfortunately we now know the friends social 
media account had been hacked and the investment company was a scam.
After the scam was uncovered, Mrs A raised the payment with Barclays and asked it to 
refund the money she had lost. Barclays investigated but said it hadnt been able to recover 
the payment Mrs A had made, so wouldnt refund the money she had lost. Mrs A wasnt 
satisfied that Barclays wouldnt refund the money, or with the customer service she had 
received during her claim, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said they didnt think Barclays had 
acted unfairly by not refunding the money and that we wouldnt expect it to have stopped the 
payment as suspicious either. They also said they thought Barclays had given Mrs A a 
reasonable explanation of its investigation when it spoke to her on the phone, so didnt think 
it should have to pay her any compensation. Mrs A disagreed with our investigator, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Barclays do enough to protect Mrs A?
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And Mrs A 
accepts she made the payment here. So while I recognise she didnt intend for the money to 
go to scammers, she did authorise the payment. And so the starting position in law is that 
Barclays was obliged to follow her instructions and make the payment. So Mrs A isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out requirements for 
banks to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. So, in line with this, I think 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
And so Ive also considered whether Barclays should have identified that Mrs A was 
potentially at risk of fraud as a result of this payment.
But the payment Mrs A made wasnt for what Id consider to be a particularly large amount of 
money. There were other payments out of her account for similar and larger amounts in the 
months before this payment. And the payment didnt leave the balance of her account at a 
particularly unusual level.
So I dont think the payment will have looked particularly suspicious or unusual to Barclays. 
And I think its reasonable Barclays didnt identify that Mrs A was potentially at risk of fraud 
as a result of the payment, or ask any further questions or carry out any additional checks 
before allowing it to go through.
Did Barclays do enough to reimburse or recover the money Mrs A lost?
Mrs A has mentioned the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM code), which requires firms who have signed up to it to reimburse the victims of certain 
types of scams. But this code doesnt apply to card payments, which is how the payment 
Mrs A made here was done. So I cant apply the standards of the CRM code here or require 
Barclays to reimburse Mrs A on this basis.
Once they have been notified of a scam, we expect businesses to take reasonable steps to 
try to recover any money their customers have lost  including making use of any available 
chargeback scheme.
A chargeback is a process by which card payments can be disputed with the merchant who 
took the payment, which in Mrs As case is the online payment service the payment was 
made via. Barclays attempted to chargeback the payment Mrs A made, but the online 
payment service rejected the claim. And it wasnt the online payment service themselves 
that scammed Mrs A. The online payment service didnt do anything wrong and just made 
the payment as instructed. So I dont think there was anything further Barclays could do to 
dispute the payment in this way.
Any attempt by Barclays to recover the money would also have been unsuccessful, for the 
same reasons. The recovery attempt would have gone to the online payment service and it 
hadnt done anything wrong.
And so I dont think anything wed reasonably expect Barclays to have done would have 
recovered the money Mrs A lost.
Did Barclays provide Mrs A with a reasonable level of customer service?
Mrs A has also complained about the level of customer service she received from Barclays 
when making her claim, and specifically that it didnt explain what it could or couldnt do in order to reimburse or recover her money, didnt explain how likely she was to get a refund 
and suggested she pursue the scammers herself.
Ive looked at copies of the letters Barclays sent Mrs A about her claim and listened to a 
recording of the phone call it had with her about it on 13 June 2022. And I agree that the 
explanation Barclays gave could have been more detailed and more tailored to Mrs As 
situation, particularly in its letter of 13 June 2022. But I do think the explanation Barclays 
gave in the phone call was reasonable. The person Mrs A spoke to explained Barclays is 
limited in what it can do as the payment was made by Mrs A herself on her card, and it can 
only look at the company the money was sent to. They also explain how and when the 
temporary credit will be taken back from her account and how this will affect her overdraft. 
And I think they display reasonable empathy and understanding towards Mrs A.
And while I appreciate that it may not have been practical for Mrs A to pursue the scammers 
herself, I think Barclays was likely just trying to explain the possible next steps she could 
take, as it had done all it could.
So I dont think the customer service Mrs A received from Barclays while making her claim 
fell significantly below the level wed expect or that Barclays should be required to pay any 
compensation as a result.
I sympathise with the position Mrs A has found herself in. She has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and Im in no way saying she did anything wrong herself. But I think the main cause of 
the loss, distress and inconvenience she has suffered here is the scammers and I can only 
look at the actions of Barclays. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Barclays 
has acted unreasonably or that anything we would reasonably have expected it to do would 
have prevented or recovered her loss.
So I dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible, or that it should have to refund 
the money Mrs A lost or do anything further here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman