DRN-4105881
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt refunded disputed transactions on his 
account. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In February 2022 a merchant started taking a regular payment from Mr Ms account. In 
August 2022 Mr M noticed the payment and asked for it to be cancelled. By that point 
around £344 had been taken from the account. 
Mr M then asked Santander to refund the payments. Santander reviewed the claim but 
decided not to offer a refund. It said that the first and second payments were authorised 
using Mr Ms own mobile phone. Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said she wasnt persuaded 
the transactions were unauthorised so she couldnt reasonably ask Santander to refund Mr 
M. She said that based on Mr Ms testimony she couldnt find a point of compromise on his 
account and that she was satisfied from Santanders evidence that the recurring transaction 
was set up using his mobile banking. 
Mr M disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said the investigator was 
making an assumption that he authorised the payments and he doesnt use his Santander 
account on a daily basis, only for setting up standing orders and for savings so the disputed 
transactions were easily missed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Broadly speaking, Mr M is responsible for any payments that he authorised (either by 
making them himself or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised 
payments. The relevant regulations to this effect are the Payment Services Regulations 
(PSRs), and Ive considered these alongside the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account. 
The key questions for me to decide are:
1. were the payments authorised by Mr M; and 
2. if they werent, did Mr M fail with intent or gross negligence to comply with his obligations 
under the PSRs and/or the terms and conditions of his account?
To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed transactions. It shows 
that the first two transactions were authorised using Mr Ms registered device. Ill now need 
to consider the information provided by both parties to determine whether theres sufficient 
evidence to hold Mr M responsible for the disputed transaction or not.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that its more likely than not a third party has managed to 
take Mr Ms phone and signed him up for recurring payments without his knowledge. Mr M 
has said that no third-party has access to his device or his online banking credentials. As a 
result, Im not persuaded there is a reasonable point of compromise for both Mr Ms device 
and his online banking details for these transactions to have taken place without him 
knowing. 
The transactions also took place over a number of months which isnt typical behaviour of a 
fraudster who would normally try and take as much money from the account as quickly as 
possible. So - on balance  Im satisfied Mr M either authorised or consented to all the 
disputed payments here.
As a result, Im not going to ask Santander to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman