DRN-3333148
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) 
handled their motor insurance claim.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr and Mrs D made a claim on their motor policy. At first it was thought the car 
was repairable, so Advantage arranged for the vehicle to be taken to a garage for further 
inspection. 
A few weeks passed, Mr and Mrs D hadnt heard anything, so they contacted Advantage for 
an update. Advantage wasnt sure what was happening with the vehicle. Mrs D spent some 
time calling around and located the vehicle but was informed the vehicle wasnt repairable 
and deemed a total loss category S.
Advantage initially valued the vehicle at £4,485.81. This offer was declined by Mr and Mrs D 
as they were looking for around £7,000 to reflect the current market price of their car. 
Advantage increased its settlement offer to £4,776 but this was also declined. At this point 
Mr and Mrs D also made a complaint. In their final response Advantage increased its offer to 
£5,600 which they said was the maximum value they could request from the third partys 
insurer based on the trade guides.
They also awarded £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the confusion in 
relation to the car being repairable and the service provided.
Mr and Mrs D brought their concerns to this service. Our investigator felt the final valuation 
was fair but thought Advantage should pay Mr and Mrs D an additional £125 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs D felt the valuation didnt reflect the current market value or what they would 
need to pay to replace the car. They also felt the level of distress and inconvenience wasnt 
reflective of the service they had received and the hassle they had been put to. The 
complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive considered all the information provided by both parties, I havent commented on 
everything. Instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
The policy terms and conditions explain that Advantage may repair the vehicle or settle the 
claim by paying the market value for the car immediately before the loss. Market value is 
defined as:
The cost of replacing your car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or 
damage occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may 
not necessarily be the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your 
insurer may use publications such as Glasss Guide to assess the Market Value 
and will make any necessary allowances for the mileage and condition of your car 
and the circumstances in which you bought it.
Advantage decided not to repair the vehicle as they deemed it uneconomical to do so. 
Having reviewed the engineers report I dont think theyve been unreasonable here as the 
repair costs were higher than the vehicles market value.
Whilst initially offering a lower settlement, Advantage did revise this with a final settlement 
offer of £5,600. I can see they determined this by using three well known trade guides and 
they took the highest valuation to reach this figure. 
Our service doesnt value vehicles, instead we check to see the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we use 
relevant trade guides, as well as considering other information such as adverts. But we tend 
to find the guides most persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of sales prices.
Having checked the trade guides, I can see the correct vehicle information has been used 
and the offer made is above the mid-range and at the higher end of the guide valuations. So 
overall, I think the offer of £5,600 is fair and reasonable.
I understand Mr and Mrs D feel in the current climate this isnt a fair settlement as it will cost 
more than this to replace the vehicle. However, since the accident the second-hand car 
market has picked up considerably meaning vehicles are priced higher than they once were. 
Whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ds situation as were considering the value of the 
vehicle at the time of the accident rather than now, this isnt something I can hold Advantage 
responsible for.
Its clear Advantages level of service wasnt what it should have been. Mr and Mrs D were 
initially under the impression the car was repairable and only when they chased it up, it 
became clear it was in fact a total loss. It seems there was a lack of communication 
internally as well as with Mr and Mrs D as the garage also werent aware of what was 
happening. 
Mr and Mrs D said there was no discussion or consultation about the salvage and they 
werent offered the option to retain it. The terms say:
If your car is a total loss, your insurer may put it in storage until your claim is 
settled. Your Insurer is also entitled to take possession of your car once theyve 
settled your total loss claim.
When someone makes a claim, it is for the insurer to decide how to settle that claim in line 
with the terms and conditions. The terms dont suggest salvage would be offered as a 
resolution and this isnt unusual. We would normally expect an insurer to allow the policy 
holder to retain the salvage if they had expressed a wish to do so. But Mr and Mrs D hadnt. 
The final valuation was given on 10 September 21 and the vehicles salvage wasnt 
auctioned by Advantage until 28 September so there was time to retain the vehicle if it was 
something they were interested in. 
At the start of the claim, the service provided wasnt at the standard it should have been, a 
lack of communication and miscommunication did cause Mr and Mrs D distress and inconvenience. Having been involved in a car accident is already a very distressing time, 
and Im aware Mrs D is still suffering as a result of her injuries obtained in the accident. Not 
knowing what was happening, understanding the car would be repaired to then be told it was 
a total loss a few weeks later after having to chase around during this time would have 
added to this. 
Taking account of this, I think £200 fairly reflects the impact this had. I appreciate Advantage 
feel theyve already offered a more than reasonable vehicle valuation. But distress and 
inconvenience is considered separately to settlement of the claim itself.
Im aware Mr and Mrs D have further concerns with Advantages actions following the 
settlement. However, as these concerns werent referred to us as part of this complaint, it 
isnt something Ive considered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Advantage Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr and Mrs D 
£125 to bring the total compensation to £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman