DRN-2827287
The complaint
Mr B complains that lending approved by Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDFC) 
was unaffordable. He would like his debt written off.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but having done so, I wont be upholding 
this complaint for the following reasons. 
SDFC approved a credit limit of £300 for Mr Bs home shopping account in 
December 2018. I would expect SDFC to have carried out reasonable checks on 
whether this credit limit was affordable for Mr B. I would also expect those checks to 
be proportionate to the amount of lending. I consider £300 to be a modest credit limit.
When looking at whether credit should be approved, I need to consider whether it 
was affordable at the time of application. SDFC has provided evidence of the checks 
it did. Mr B declared his annual income to be £27,500 and said he was living with his 
parents. He had opened several accounts around this time, which I can see from the 
credit file, but the outstanding balance of unsecured debt at the time of application 
was £494 in total. So, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for SDFC to consider a 
credit limit of £300 to be affordable. 
SDFC said Mr B made it aware he had too much outstanding debt within a few 
weeks of opening his home shopping account, even before he was showing arrears. 
And he was in sustained arrears from 16 February 2019.
When a business becomes aware that a customer is in financial difficulty it is 
expected to act sympathetically and positively towards the customer. I can see that 
SDFC did take steps to help Mr B. On 1 March it became aware Mr B was dealing 
with a debt management company and was in the process of setting up a debt 
management plan. And charges were suspended from the point the plan was set up. 
It said an original plan of 18 instalments of £1.71 was arranged. This was further 
updated in March 2021 with an arrangement of 18 instalments of £1.26. 
I can also see that SDFC blocked the account and reduced Mr Bs credit limit on two 
more occasions in line with his balance reduction.
Im satisfied that SDFC has taken reasonable steps to help Mr B after it became 
aware of his financial difficulty. 
Mr B has told us of the financial difficulties hes experiencing and that this is affecting 
his mental health. He has asked for the debt to be written off and for the account to 
be removed from his credit file. I do sympathise with Mr B and I think it is to his credit 
that he is working towards being more financially stable. But Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that SDFC has responded to his complaint unfairly 
or unreasonably; and I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require SDFC to write off the debt.  
Ive looked at the credit file and can see it accurately reflects the arrangement to pay 
agreement in place. So, I wont be asking SDFC to amend his credit file or to take 
any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman