DRN-3105639
The complaint
Mr L complains that N26 Bank GmbH closed his account and registered his details with 
CIFAS the UKs fraud alert service. He wants the CIFAS marker removed and 
compensation. 
What happened
Mr L had an account with N26 which he opened on 11 April 2019.
 
On 28 April 2019 Mr L received two £250.00 credits into his account from the same source. 
The next day he carried out two ATM withdrawals for £250.00 each.
N26 closed Mr Ls account and loaded a CIFAS marker against him.
Mr L realised something was wrong when he was declined for credit and one of his bank 
accounts was closed.
N26 has said Mr L received fraudulent funds into his account not long after he opened it. 
Mr L complained to N26, they didnt uphold the complaint. They said they had information 
that confirmed the money paid into Mr Ls account was fraudulent. And they had correctly 
applied the CIFAS marker.
Mr L also complained to CIFAS who also declined to remove the CIFAS marker.
Mr L said he had borrowed money from a friend at work to help with his accommodation 
costs and he hadnt been aware that the funds were fraudulent.
Mr L complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said 
she thought that N26 had correctly applied the CIFAS marker.
Mr L was unhappy with her response he said she hadnt listened to the information he had 
provided. He was an innocent victim. He didnt have contact with his friend anymore. He 
reiterated his position  he had borrowed money from a friend because he was short of cash 
and was going to pay him back after he received his student loan.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIFAS marker
The marker that N26 have filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been a misuse 
of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr L was guilty of a 
fraud or financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere 
suspicion or concern. CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr Ls account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Mr L was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent funds and knew they were, or might be, illegitimate 
payments.
However, a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention.
I need to assess whether I think there is sufficient evidence to meet this standard of proof  
and therefore, whether N26 acted fairly in loading a CIFAS marker against Mr L.
For H26 to have fairly loaded a CIFAS marker against Mr L they need to have evidence to 
show that Mr L s account received fraudulent funds. Im satisfied based on the information 
provided by N26 theyve sufficient evidence that the funds paid into Mr Ls account on 
28 April 2019 were fraudulent. Im therefore satisfied that N26 met the first pillar to load a 
marker.
But this isnt sufficient on its own for N26 to load a marker, I need to be satisfied Mr L was 
complicit in the fraud, so in summary was deliberately dishonest and knew the funds were 
fraudulent. So, Ive moved on to consider this.
Looking at the information before me I think its more likely than not Mr L was complicit. I say 
this because:
The account was opened three weeks before the fraudulent funds were received, 
and no other transactions were made on the account. 
The two ATM transactions were made within 24 hours of receipt of the fraudulent 
funds. which is what Id expect to see if fraudulent funds were deposited/transferred 
into an account.
The lack of activity on the account apart from the payment in of fraudulent funds and 
the withdrawal of them shortly afterwards is also what Id expect to see.
The funds were paid into the account in two equal payments and the funds were 
withdrawn in two equal payments. This is strange as Mr L has said that he borrowed 
£500  I would have expected him to receive one payment of £500.Especially as 
both payments come from one source.
Mr L has said he used the money for everyday expenses and to pay back some 
money he owed a third party. Because of this I would have expected to see a transfer to another one of his accounts or alternatively to see these payments come out of his 
N26 account but not to see two ATM payments for £250 each. 
Mr L originally told us he borrowed the money because his rent was due, and he was 
short of money. Later he told us he needed the money for expenses and to pay 
someone back.
Although Mr L has provided a snapchat conversation with his friend who he borrowed 
the money from, it is not possible to verify these as genuine conversations.
The screenshots Mr L has provided simply show Mr L and M discussing the 
payments Mr l was requesting and M was going to send to his account- they dont 
show Mr L was an unwitting beneficiary.
Mr L has told us his friends name, who I will refer to as M. Despite Mr L saying he 
had borrowed the money from M, the money Mr L received into his account wasnt 
received from M.
Mr L didnt query the different name that the funds were received from  this is not 
the behaviour of an innocent recipient of fraudulent funds.
Mr L says that he repaid the funds back to M in cash from tips he made working in 
the hospitality industry. He has also said he withdrew £180 in cash to pay M back. 
Mr L has said he contacted M after he realised he had a CIFAS marker registered 
against him. However, Mr L hasnt been able to provide evidence of this contact.
I find it implausible that Mr L would go out of his way to physically save the snapchat 
conversations he had arranging the loan with M but no other conversations with M; 
for example arranging to meet to return the money or contacting him after Mr L 
realised the CIFAS marker was registered against him.
In summary the information Mr L provided us is inconsistent and what happened is unclear. 
In respect of returning the money Mr Ls story seems to have changed during the 
investigation. In addition, the way the account was used and Mr Ls lack of concern that the 
money he received into his account wasnt from M makes me conclude its more likely than 
not that Mr L was complicit in the receipt and dispersal of fraudulent funds.
It follows I dont think N26 did anything wrong when they loaded a CIFAS marker against his 
name and I wont be asking them to remove it.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman