DRN-3190326
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
There is limited information available about this matter but from what Ive seen, Mr C 
borrowed £5,000 from Oakbrook in September 2016. The loan was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of about £239. The total amount repayable was around £8,636.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint but didnt think there was enough 
information to say that Oakbrook had been wrong to provide Mr C with the loan. Mr C 
disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. As the complaint has not been settled, it has 
been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Oakbrook needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr C irresponsibly. 
I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Oakbrook carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
C was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did Oakbrook make a fair lending 
decision about the loan?
Did Oakbrook act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way?
Oakbrook was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Oakbrook had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. 
Oakbrook had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Oakbrook had 
to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length 
of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
In light of this, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks ought generally to have been 
more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period)
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Ive seen about this
matter and what it means for Mr C.
Oakbrook asked Mr C for information about his income and it acquired credit information and 
a bank statement before providing the loan. Oakbrook says that it thinks its checks were 
reasonable and proportionate, and that the loan was affordable for him.
As Ive explained, there is limited information available about what happened at the time. 
Oakbrook says it does not hold a credit report from the time it lent to Mr C, but it says it has 
some information extracted from the credit check.  Oakbrook says Mr C had outstanding 
credit of around £13,500 with 9 active accounts. It also says that there was no adverse data 
on his credit report at the time and that Mr C was maintaining his credit and paying bills as 
expected. Oakbrook says that Mr C said he was taking the loan in order to consolidate some 
of his debts. Oakbrook has supplied a credit search taken at the point Mr C raised his 
complaint in 2020, but this carries limited information about Mr Cs credit position or history 
in the months just prior to his loan application in 2016. Overall, there isnt enough information 
available for me to make any findings about what Oakbrook says it thinks about Mr Cs credit 
position in 2016.  
The bank statement that Oakbrook has provided shows a limited number of transactions and 
the account was heavily overdrawn. From what I understand, Mr C was transferring large 
sums from this account into another from which he also paid his household bills. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Oakbrook queried why Mr C was transferring large sums from 
one overdrawn account into another account or requested any further clarification about 
these transfers at the time.
I appreciate that Oakbrook says that Mr Cs credit report did not show any adverse 
information, but the bank statement Mr C provided at the time did carry a substantial 
overdraft and evidence of at least one other loan. Mr C was applying to Oakbrook for a 
costly loan, repayable over an extended three-year period. I would have expected the lender 
to want to obtain a thorough understanding of Mr Cs financial circumstances to satisfy itself 
that he could sustainably repay the loan over the whole loan term. I think Oakbrook should 
have carried out more detailed checks into Mr Cs financial circumstances  for example by 
asking to see statements from Mr Cs other bank account to confirm his regular expenditure. 
Overall, from what Ive seen, I cannot fairly say that I think the checks Oakbrook carried out 
before it provided the loan were fair, reasonable, and proportionate.
But even though I think Oakbrook shouldve carried out better checks before it provided
the loan to Mr C, without additional information, I cant fairly say what proportionate checks 
are likely to have shown Oakbrook at the time.
Mr C says he no longer has access to statements from his other bank account. This isnt 
surprising, given the amount of time that has passed. But without further information, I 
cannot fairly say that Oakbrook ought reasonably to have concluded that it ought not to lend 
to Mr C or that it lent to him irresponsibly. I have thought about whether the checks that Oakbrook did carry out ought reasonably to 
have led it to decline to lend to Mr C. On balance, I dont think they did. Mr C thinks it is 
unfair that he has been asked to provide more evidence about his financial circumstances at 
the time he took the loan. I understand why he is unhappy, but without additional 
information, I cannot say what better checks by Oakbrook would have shown when he 
applied for the loan. And from what Ive seen, I cant fairly say that I think Oakbrook ought 
simply to have declined the loan application based on the information it had gathered.
Overall, Ive not seen anything which makes me think that Oakbrook treated Mr C unfairly in 
any other way. And as I have explained, on the information provided, I cant fairly say that I 
think Oakbrook ought reasonably to have declined to lend to Mr C. I know Mr C will be 
disappointed by my decision.  But Id like to reassure him that I have carefully considered 
everything that both he and Oakbrook have told us and all the information that has been 
provided about this matter. Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint about this loan.
I am sorry if Mr C has experienced difficulties repaying his loan from Oakbrook. If the lending 
is still outstanding, I would expect Oakbrook to treat Mr C sympathetically and try to agree a 
repayment plan with him that is affordable for Mr C. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman