DRN-3292050
The complaint
Mr E complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC:
- didnt fully refund all fraudulent transactions which had been made on Mr Es old 
Barclaycard. This led to a balance being outstanding in his name, and adverse credit 
information being reported against him. This meant he couldnt get the mortgage he 
wanted to;
- didnt deal properly with his complaint, including delays, and many phone calls not 
being returned.
Mr E wants more compensation than Barclays paid him.
What happened
Mr E had an old Barclaycard, and about eight years ago he asked for this to be closed. He 
didnt receive any statements or correspondence, so he assumed this had been done. Mr E 
moved in 2016.
In early 2019, Mr E found out by chance from the people living at his former address, that 
Barclays had written to him there. He got in touch with Barclays and found out that there had 
been fraudulent transactions against his old card. Barclays agreed the transactions had 
been fraudulent, and it took Mr Es new address, and promised the account would be closed 
with a nil balance.
During 2020, Mr E was declined several times for credit, which surprised him, but he didnt 
investigate as he decided not to take the credit. 
But in December 2020, Mr E wanted to remortgage, to reduce his monthly payments. His 
financial advisor found him a good mortgage deal, but Mr Es application was declined, on 
the basis that he hadnt declared a debt and default with Barclays. His financial advisor told 
him that other mortgage providers would have the same stance.
Mr E contacted Barclays, to get the Notice of Correction which his financial advisor had said 
hed need, and to get confirmation that the debt had been a fraud on his former account.
Mr E had difficulties raising his complaint with Barclays. Although Mr Es local branch tried to 
help, he had to speak to specialist teams in this country and abroad. As he didnt have the 
old credit card number, and Barclays hadnt noted his new address, he had a lot of trouble 
passing security. He was repeatedly promised that his calls would be returned, but they 
never were.
In late January 2021, Mr E tried again and asked to raise a formal complaint  but the 
advisor refused, saying they wanted to resolve it. Barclays said it needed to discuss the 
individual transactions, but Mr E couldnt do this because he hadnt been the person whod 
made the fraudulent transactions. Barclays promised to write within 14 days, which was a 
letter Mr Es mortgage advisor needed. But no letter arrived, and there was no phone call 
either. 
On 10 February, Mr E rang again, again asking to raise a formal complaint, but  Barclays 
refused again. Barclays still had Mr Es old address on file. It told Mr E someone had tried to 
phone him, and that the issue had been transferred to another fraud team. He was put on 
hold then cut off. He rang again, and was told there was a note on the system saying the 
outstanding amount on the account had been deleted on 4 February. 
Meanwhile Mr E was paying a subscription to a credit reference agency, and he could see 
that his credit file hadnt been corrected.
Mr E tried again on 15 February, and finally spoke to someone whom he said was helpful. 
He told Mr E the system had been updated that morning  but refused to put it in writing and 
said it could take two to three months to update Mr Es credit file. Mr E said this wasnt 
acceptable when it was stopping him getting credit, and the advisor promised someone 
would ring Mr E within 72 hours. This didnt happen.
Barclays sent Mr E a holding letter on 2 March, saying it hadnt been able to finish looking at 
his complaint, and giving him referral rights to this service. Mr E complained to us.  
When this service asked Barclays for its file, Barclays said Mr E had accepted £450 to settle 
the complaint. But Mr E told us he hadnt. In July 2021, he told us that the default was still 
showing on his credit file. And he felt that £450 didnt reflect the adverse experience hed 
had, and the fact he couldnt get the mortgage he wanted, through no fault of his own. He 
said the compensation should have been several thousand pounds.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. He said he didnt have evidence of how 
much Mr E extra had had to pay on his mortgage, as a result of the default meaning he 
hadnt been able to get the mortgage he wanted. And although Mr E had said hed been 
declined for credit in 2020, it wasnt possible to say that these would have been a direct 
result of the adverse credit file information. The investigator considered the compensation for 
the trouble and upset which Barclays had caused by not acting correctly. He thought £450 
which Barclays had offered was fair.
Mr E didnt agree. He said £450 didnt reflect the inconvenience, time, stress, and financial 
impact. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I recognise that being a victim of fraud, as Mr E was, is very stressful, time consuming 
and shocking. It didnt impact him until 2020, when he said he was declined for credit several 
times and in particular when he was trying to remortgage from December 2020 onwards. But 
from that point onwards, Mr E had a very stressful time, trying to get the problem resolved.
As Barclays acknowledged, it should have cleared and closed Mr Es old account, on which 
the fraud had occurred, when he reported it. It was this which led to the default recorded on 
Mr Es credit file in 2018-19, which caused him significant problems, both in relation to his 
mortgage application, and to the distress and inconvenience he suffered when trying to put 
things right. Ive considered these two elements separately below.Financial loss
I asked Mr E for more evidence about the mortgage he failed to get in December 2020, and 
the mortgage he took instead. Hed already sent us copies of emails with his financial 
adviser, and the mortgage lender which his financial adviser had recommended. 
These showed that the default on Mr Es account was indeed causing problems. The lender 
wrote to the financial adviser saying:  
We would be happy to revisit this, but If the default did relate to a fraud then we will need 
evidence such as a letter from the credit card company confirming that the debt was due to a 
fraud on our customer. The default will also need to be removed by the credit card company 
if this is the case
and it asked for this information before 3 February 2021.  This was the time when Mr E had 
raised his complaint with Barclays, but was struggling to get a satisfactory answer. So I 
accept that the reason Mr E was unable to get this mortgage was because of the default.
To award a payment for financial loss, however, I would need detailed information about the 
mortgage Mr E would have taken out if the default hadnt been there, and about the 
mortgage he did take out  so I could calculate the difference between the two. Similarly, 
without detailed information about the other credit applications Mr E applied for in 2020, 
showing that these were rejected solely as a result of the Barclays default, I cant award 
financial loss for these. 
So I asked Mr E for this information. He didnt provide it, so its not open to me to award a 
payment for financial loss.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience 
Ive set out above the detailed events from December 2020 onwards. I accept that Mr E had 
a lot of frustration, and that he had to ring many different people, including a helpdesk 
abroad, and that he was promised returned calls and letters which didnt happen. 
I also note that Barclays hadnt recorded Mr Es new address when he provided it, when he 
first contacted it about the fraud in early 2019. This would have caused more problems about 
passing security to talk about the account, which would have increased the frustration. 
Mr E has also reported that he had trouble getting Barclays to register a complaint for him. I 
accept that the delays added to Mr Es worries at the time when he was trying to get a letter 
for his financial adviser to prove the default hadnt been Mr Es fault.
Having considered everything that happened, I consider that a fair and reasonable amount 
of compensation is £450. Barclays has already paid this to Mr E.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint for compensation additional to the 
£450 which Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman