DRN-1741705
The complaint
Mr G complains that British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) poorly handled a claim he 
made under his HomeCare policy. 
What happened
On 31 October 2019 Mr Gs boiler stopped working, so he contacted British Gas to make a 
claim under his HomeCare cover. Mr G said its engineers failed to attend appointments and 
it took around two weeks for the repair to be completed. 
British Gas says it initially arranged an engineers appointment for 6 November 2019. But 
following a call from Mr G in which he described the impact of the lack of heating on his 
household, a service engineer attended on 2 November 2019. It says the engineer found 
there was insufficient gas pressure coming into the property causing the fault. 
British Gas says it told Mr G gas pressure was the responsibility of his utility provider 
(Company A), and it had contacted the provider to request it attend and resolve the problem. 
British Gas said the appointment on 6 November 2019 had to be moved back by a week due 
to demand in the area, and it said it informed him of this on the day. But it said there was 
nothing further it couldve done until Company A had resolved the pressure issue.
On 13 November 2019 British Gas said its engineer was unable to access the property as 
Mr G wasnt in. And following a discussion with him, it re-attended two days later and 
resolved the issues as Company A had completed necessary works.
British Gas agreed there were service failings during the claim and offered Mr G £40. Mr G 
was unhappy so brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator felt British Gas offer 
was reasonable and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed and said the offer didnt 
reflect the inconvenience hed experienced through missed appointments. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint, and Ill explain why.
Mr Gs HomeCare cover provides him with protection for a number of different events, 
including repairs to his boiler. Following Mr Gs request, British Gas attended his property 
and established the fault with the boiler was related to gas pressure within two days of his 
call. And it also contacted Company A the same day to resolve the pressure issue.
British Gas has now said it was a mistake not to cancel the 6 November 2019 appointment 
as this second appointment wouldve been unnecessary. And although it says it told
Mr G on the day it was unable to attend, I can see how this short notice cancellation would 
be unnecessarily frustrating for him. So it seems British Gas did do something wrong.Mr G has said British Gas also failed to attend the second appointment, and that hed taken 
time off work to wait in. Although it appears an engineer did attend just before 5pm when he 
wasnt at home. So I cant agree this was a failing on its part. It also offered to re-attend the 
following day, which Mr G declined. It then resolved the issue two days after.
Overall it seems to me British Gas did identify the fault with Mr Gs heating system promptly 
and take steps to resolve this. But it made a mistake by not cancelling an appointment which 
it knew would be unnecessary. This is because whether or not its engineer attended, the 
resolution was in the hands of Mr Gs gas provider at that time, and not British Gas. 
Taking this all into account, Im satisfied British Gas offer of £40 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and Im not asking it to do anything further.
Mr G has also raised concerns about the way British Gas has responded to his complaint. 
However, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity so wont be something I comment on.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman