DRN-2762420
The complaint
Ms F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund transactions she says she didnt 
make or authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties and Im mindful that 
Ms F has explained it is difficult for her to have to recollect all of the details of what she has 
been through. As such, Ill provide only an overview of only the most essential facts here. 
Ms F is disputing transactions made on her accounts between approximately July 2013 and 
September 2018. Ms F has been the victim of domestic and economic abuse and explains 
that her abuser, who I will refer to as S, has stolen money she inherited along with her 
wages. 
Ms F reported the matter to the police on 22 June 2018. S was charged and ultimately 
convicted of fraud by false representation in relation to matters involving a loan. No charges 
were taken forwards in relation to the transactions made on Ms Fs accounts that are the 
subject of this complaint. Ms F has said that Ss charges and sentence were mitigated as a 
first-time offender. Ms F points out the conviction shows S was more than capable of the 
other thefts. 
Background 
Ms F has explained that she was in a relationship with S and he was there for her at a time 
when she was particularly vulnerable. She was struggling to settle her late mums estate and 
S volunteered to help. Ms F has explained that she had no reason to doubt Ss intentions. 
They had recently become engaged and she trusted him.
S suggested bringing the wedding forwards as something positive to focus on. Ms F 
explained they arranged to be married in August 2014. She agreed a spending limit of 
£20,000 for the total cost. S managed making the payments for the wedding. Ms F explained 
that she knew S was making payments for the wedding online and that he was using her 
inheritance money to do so, but she thought he was transferring money straight to the venue 
or supplier. She did not realise S was transferring money to his own account first or that S 
was transferring more than was required to settle legitimate invoices. The statement Ms F 
provided to the police in October 2018 said that S used to take her mobile phone and say he 
was dealing with the bank notifications about the transfers so she didnt have to have any 
more worries. 
Ms F explains that she did try to keep track of her finances at the cash machine and her 
balance always seemed to be correct, but she didnt know S was transferring money from 
her savings account to her current account to cover up what had been taken. 
Shortly after they were married, Ms F recalls that she logged into her online banking for the 
first time in a while. She noticed there was a transfer of £200 from her account to Ss 
account. She explains that S did not ask her permission to take this money. 
Ms F says that she asked S about it and he admitted hed made a mistake. Ss mother 
replaced the money S had taken. In her statement to the police, Ms F recalls that the 
incident caused her to lose some trust in S but she wanted to keep the relationship working. 
In January 2015, Ms F discovered she was pregnant. She explains that she didnt check her 
online banking regularly but every time she checked her balance at the cash machine it 
appeared to be correct. 
In Ms Fs statement to the police she says that around June 2015 S told her that most of her 
inheritance money had gone. In the statement, Ms F explains that she knew S was 
transferring money to cover the shortfall in her wages during her maternity leave but she 
didnt expect it to go down as quickly as it did. She explains that whenever they tried to talk 
about money issues it would end in an argument, or S would offer to check the banking for 
her or refer to some spending she had made to explain things away. 
Ms F explains that her relationship with S was up and down. In her statement to the police, 
Ms F said S had experienced difficulties with his mental health and they had discussed 
separating. Ms F also refers to a mortgage payment that was missed in September 2017 
and explains that she borrowed the money from her father to pay it. In her statement to the 
police, she highlighted that shed missed out on significant social events such as the 
wedding of a close friend because S told her they did not have the money to attend. 
By 2018, Ms F started to strongly suspect that things might not be right with their finances. 
She thought it was strange they did not have much money left over each month when they 
were both earning a proper wage. She explains that she began to question things in her 
mind. 
In June 2018, Ms F received a notification stating she had reached the limit on her credit 
card. Ms F explains she was shocked because the card was only for emergencies. When 
she asked S about it, he said it must be a mistake. Ms F discovered the balance was made 
up of day to day purchases. She asked S what his wage was being spent on and he refused 
to show her. S then told Ms F that he had taken out a loan in her name. S's mother repaid 
the loan and the balance of the credit card. 
Ms F contacted Barclays to obtain details of her banking to see what had been happening. 
Initially she failed the banks security questions. She discovered that S had downloaded the 
mobile banking app to his device and changed details such as the phone number linked to 
her accounts. Ms F then went into a branch where the full extent of the money S had utilised 
came to light. 
Ms F told the bank that she had not given S permission to make these transactions or to 
change details on her account. She pointed out that S had initiated payments that looked like 
household bills but the references for the payments were falsified and were really payments 
to S. She discovered that S had transferred more money than was really needed to pay 
genuine expenses. She explained that the money she inherited was not for S to spend on 
himself and she gave him no permission for him to transfer money from her account to his 
own account. Whilst she was aware that S used her online banking to pay bills and make 
other payments connected to the wedding, she said it was under the understanding the 
payments were made directly to the payees. Ms F explains that S has stolen £45,000 worth 
of experiences, life chances and security away from her and her children. 
Ms F asked Barclays to refund the money she has lost and explained the difficult 
circumstances shed been under at the time the transactions were made. 
Barclays investigated the matter. It concluded it was unable to refund her. It felt she had 
willingly given S access to her banking, breaking the terms and conditions of her account. It explained it could not determine what spending was and was not authorised by Ms F. It 
said it could not determine if permission was given for the transactions and considered it to 
be one persons word against another.
Barclays did recognise that the way it handled Ms Fs concerns fell short. Initially it offered 
Ms F £200 compensation, then increased it by a further £800 to acknowledge the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused to her. It accepts its staff were not as empathetic as they 
should have been when Ms F was struggling to come to terms with the impact of what she 
had discovered. It acknowledged that Ms F had needed to repeat what had happened to 
different staff members and that staff members had caused distress by using Ms Fs married 
name. 
Ms F was unhappy with the banks position and complained to us. She explained that 
Barclays had continually treated her as if the situation was her fault. She felt it was unfair for 
the bank to say it was her word against Ss given that S had received a significant conviction 
regarding dishonesty. She felt that Barclays had turned a blind eye to suspicious looking 
activity on her accounts and that it should have done more to protect her from financial 
harm. 
Our investigator considered the situation. Initially Barclays was approached to discuss the 
difficult circumstances Ms F had faced and asked it whether it wished to mediate a position 
on the case. Barclays explained there was nothing further it could informally do and asked 
for us to reach a view on the matter. 
Our investigator then reached her view on the complaint. In summary, she agreed that 
generally a customer will only be responsible for payments which theyve consented to. But 
she explained that a customer can also give someone else the authority to carry out 
transactions on their behalf, making them still liable for the spending even though they did 
not physically make the transactions themselves. She explained that under the relevant 
rules, a customer can be liable for transactions carried out by a third party if they have given 
their details over to a third party to use, even if the third party has then gone on to make 
transactions over and above those requested. She acknowledged that Ms F thought she had 
only allowed S to access her accounts for specific purposes, but she didnt think it was unfair 
in all the circumstances for Barclays to have treated all of the payments as being authorised 
by Ms F. She also didnt think the payments would have stood out as being unusual to the 
bank, so concluded that Barclays had not missed any opportunities to pick up on what was 
happening. She also felt that even if the bank had contacted Ms F, the intervention would not 
have made a difference. Overall, she felt that she could not fairly require Barclays to do 
anything more. 
Ms F did not agree with our investigators position. She responded in detail across a number 
of responses. Im going to summarise Ms Fs position in less detail than she did. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Im focusing on what I think are the key points.
In summary, Ms F highlighted that:
She agreed to a limited amount of transfers where dates and amounts were agreed 
with the companies being paid. She had full knowledge of these payments and was 
not disputing them.
She allowed S to help her during these pre agreed occasions because she was not 
well.
But S hid further transactions so that she remained unaware of what was really going 
on. She said these further fraudulent transfers were not authorised. She pointed out 
that she did not give S open access to her banking, did not agree to the payments 
and so could not have authorised them. She pointed out the bank should refund the unauthorised payments as she has not acted with gross negligence, nor has she 
failed with intent.
S manipulated and abused her at a time when she was vulnerable. She explained 
that she did not let S access her bank and her money and that to think otherwise 
underestimates the power and control abusers have over victims. 
Barclays failed to act and protect her. She highlighted the bank did not get in touch 
with her when large sums of money moved around. Ms F pointed out the bank should 
have flagged up the incoming loan money and large transfers with her personally. 
She disagreed with our investigators position that intervention from the bank 
wouldnt have made a difference. She explained that if the bank had contacted her to 
discuss her inheritance or to flag up large sums, she would have realised what was 
happening and taken steps to stop the ongoing abuse before losing everything. She 
pointed out that she ended the marriage as soon as shed found out what happened 
and highlighted that Barclays had failed to safeguard her for years. 
She felt strongly that she should be refunded and that there should not be a total loss 
to the victim. She said the only compensation that is acceptable is to be put back into 
the financial position she would have been in if the bank had raised any of the 
fraudulent abuse over the many years it took place.
Ms F was concerned that some of the details our investigator had included were incorrect 
and was concerned that legal principles were being applied in circumstances where it was 
unfair to do so. She asked for the matter to be reviewed afresh and independently, so her 
complaint has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time
Having done so, there is no doubt in my mind that Ms F has been taken advantage of 
financially. But my role isnt to determine whether Ms F has been the victim of a crime. 
My role is to determine whether Barclays is entitled to hold Ms F responsible for the disputed 
spending that occurred. 
Can Barclays hold Ms F liable for the disputed transactions? 
Of particular importance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the PSR 
2009) and 2017 (the PSR 2017) which apply to transactions like the ones Ms F disputes.
The PSR 2009 applied to transactions made before 13 January 2018, and the PSR 2017 
apply to transactions made on or after that date. Among other things the PSR 2017 includes 
the following (similar wording was used in the PSR 2009, Regulation 55): 
Regulation 67 of the PSR 2017 explains: 67.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded 
as having been authorised by the payer for the purposes of this Part only if the payer has 
given its consent to 
(a) the execution of the payment transaction; or 
(b) the execution of a series of payment transactions of which that payment transaction 
forms part. Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Ms F made the disputed transactions herself or 
authorised for them to be made on her behalf, it would not be fair to ask Barclays to refund 
them. But Ms F has been very clear that she does not consider the transactions in dispute 
were authorised by her. Shes explained that she did not make them herself and she did not 
know that the transactions were being made. But Im sorry to have to tell Ms F that this 
doesnt automatically mean that those transactions are unauthorised and that they should be 
refunded to her. 
It is possible for Ms F to give someone else authority to carry out transactions on her behalf, 
so that she would be responsible for them, even if she didnt physically make the 
transactions herself or give her explicit permission for them. Barclays can hold Ms F 
responsible for any spending that happened because she gave someone her permission to 
act on her behalf. This is what is known as apparent authority. As our investigator explained, 
if a payer has enabled the use of their payment instruments by a third party, so that it looks 
to the bank like the payment transaction has been authorised by the payer, the payment can 
be considered authorised for the purposes of the PSRs. 
The bank has provided evidence to show the transfers were made using credentials linked to 
Ms F. And Ms F did allow S to use her payment instruments. Shed agreed to him making a 
limited amount of spending for specific purposes that they had discussed. S abused her trust 
and exceeded what had been agreed to by continuing to use her account to make transfers 
she didnt know about and payments that shed explained she wouldnt have wanted to make 
herself.
But even though Ms F didnt agree to or know about these payments, providing S with the 
ability to make some payments served to, in effect, authorise the further spending S went on 
to undertake. Whilst Ms F has explained she did not know about this further spending, she 
has been clear that she gave S access to her accounts for the purpose of making payments. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Ms F took steps to withdraw that permission from S. 
Ive thought about S changing the phone number linked to her accounts and downloading 
the mobile banking app. But I dont think S had to steal Ms Fs information from her to gain 
access to do this. Ms Fs actions by giving him the ability to make online payments using her 
internet banking gave S access to be able to undertake these actions too. They did not 
exceed the authority hed been given. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that Ms F took 
steps to try and annul Ss access to the details she had previously shared with him, although 
I recognise that she did so in good faith and did not know there was anything to be 
concerned about. 
Im also mindful that the banks terms and conditions explain that Ms F has a responsibility to 
keep her payment credentials safe. The terms say Ms F should not give them to anyone else 
or let anyone else use them. If someone is able to take money from an account because 
payment credentials have not been kept secret, the bank is unlikely to be able to refund the 
money. This is the position even if an account holder has shared details with someone close 
to them that they thought they could trust. 
From what I have seen, I think the bank can fairly treat the disputed spending as being 
authorised, even though S spent more than Ms F agreed he could and in circumstances they 
had not discussed.Should Barclays have done more to protect Ms F from financial harm? 
Ms F has also raised concerns that Barclays did not do enough to protect her which has 
contributed to the overall loss that she has suffered. Shes referred to large sums of money 
being moved without any direct contact or challenge from the bank at any stage. 
So Ive thought about whether Barclays should have done more to protect Ms F from 
financial harm.
The starting point is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that its 
customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and 
the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
But there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a bank 
should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional checks, 
before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
However, its worth considering the context of this complaint. A significant proportion of the 
disputed transactions pre-date specific industry guidance on this aspect, which includes the 
British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a 
result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice that Ms F has referred to. 
Nonetheless, Ive thought about the transactions that are in dispute and whether there were 
any reasons why it would have been fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances to have 
expected Barclays to have double checked payment instructions with Ms F before allowing 
the payments to be made. Having done so, I dont think the activity on Ms Fs accounts 
ought to have alerted the bank that something was wrong and Im not persuaded that 
Barclays has missed obvious opportunities where it would have been prudent to further 
intervene. 
As Ive explained, Id expect Barclays to be on the lookout for out of character or unusual 
transactions and to be alert to circumstances where its customer might be at risk of financial 
harm. But at the same time, Barclays cant be involved in every transaction. Ms F has 
highlighted a clear pattern in the disputed spending. Shes pointed out that S moved money 
from her savings accounts into her current account to preserve her balance and conceal the 
transfers he made. Shes also explained that S disguised what the money was being utilised 
for by describing the transfers as payments for household type expenditure such as bills. 
Shes suggested that this was obviously fraud and should have been flagged. But 
Ive looked carefully at Ms Fs account statements and for the most part, the pattern of 
spending across her accounts did not stand out as particularly out of character, especially as 
the transactions in dispute took place over a long period of time. The transactions were for 
similar amounts, made with similar frequency and to the same, known payee. I wouldnt 
expect Barclays to have intervened in the day to day running of Ms Fs accounts to the 
extent that would have been required to discover the patterns she has since established. Im 
also mindful that Barclays would not have known how the funds were ultimately utilised by S 
once being moved onto his account. 
There are occasions over the course of the complaint where Ms F has suggested some 
larger than typical payments were made and the bank should definitely have challenged 
those. She has said that if it had contacted her, it would have uncovered what was 
happening and prevented further loss. She has referred to the deposit and subsequent 
transfer of the proceeds of a loan and also the large sum of money that she inherited. I am 
not persuaded that Barclays needed to contact Ms F specifically to discuss the inheritance 
money in and of itself. Im also not persuaded in the circumstances of this case that the deposit of loan funds which are then swiftly utilised was a warning sign which ought to have 
triggered Barclays awareness of financial abuse. 
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think I can fairly 
criticise Barclays for processing the disputed payments. I dont think the transactions should 
have aroused suspicion that Ms F was being taken advantage of, or that Barclays missed 
clear indicators that Ms F was at risk of financial harm. I can only compel Barclays to refund 
money if it I think it is responsible for the loss incurred. But as I dont think Barclays should 
have done anything more in light of the information available to it at the relevant time, I cant 
hold the bank responsible and direct it to return the money thats been sent.  
There is no legal obligation for Barclays to reimburse the funds. But it remains good practice 
for Barclays to investigate what has happened and to consider whether it would be 
appropriate to reimburse some or all of the money on a case by case basis, especially in 
situations where it is clear that its customer has been the victim of financial abuse. Barclays 
has considered the difficult situation Ms F is facing but concluded not to do anything further 
in this particular case. I have to be fair and reasonable to both sides in a complaint. I cannot 
fairly compel Barclays to do more when the relevant law, rules, codes and good practice do 
not say that it should. 
I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Ms F. I know this wasnt the answer she was 
hoping for. I cant even begin to imagine how difficult the last few years have been for her. 
She has explained how she has struggled to come to terms with the loss of her mum and 
grandparents whilst finding the strength to survive and leave an abusive relationship. 
I dont consider any financial amount can be definitively equated to reflect the distress which 
S has caused to Ms F. But Barclays made an offer to pay £1,000 compensation to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience it caused to her. It has confirmed that it is still willing to 
honour this offer if Ms F would like to accept it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
the £1,000 compensation it has previously offered if Ms F wishes to accept it. I am unable to 
make any further order or award in circumstances where the firm has not acted incorrectly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman