DRN-2742386
The complaint
Mr H complains that three chargeback requests in relation to a pre-paid card administered 
by Wirecard Card Solutions Limited were not handled correctly.
What happened
Mr H had a prepaid card, which was issued by Wirecard and administered by Pockit. He 
says that Pockit failed to properly raise chargeback disputes in relation to three card 
payments: one for £50, dated 17 April 2018, and two on 9 and 10 June 2019, for £14.95 and 
£35 respectively. Wirecard has accepted responsibility for this complaint.
In August 2019, Mr H asked Pockit to raise a chargeback claim for the first payment, but this 
was never done. Pockit refused to raise a chargeback until Mr H provided the documents it 
had asked him for, and Mr H insisted that he had already provided what he needed to, and 
that the rest were not necessary. The deadline for raising a chargeback eventually expired.
When Mr H raised chargeback claims for the two payments in 2019, Pockit invoked the 
wrong chargeback reason  goods not received, rather than goods faulty or not as 
described. It was therefore easy for the merchant to defend the claims by proving that the 
goods had been received, which Mr H had obviously never disputed. Mr H complained, and 
at first Pockit did not uphold his complaint. But after Wirecard intervened, Pockit told Mr H 
that it would refund both transactions and paid him £25 compensation for his inconvenience. 
Mr H says he never received these payments. Wirecard provided statements to show that 
they were paid to his Pockit account in August 2019.
Mr H brought this complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold the complaint 
about the 2019 payments. She accepted the statements as evidence that the refunds and 
compensation had been paid, and she thought these payments were sufficient. But as 
Wirecard could provide no evidence about what Pockit had done in relation to the 2018 
payment (since Wirecard was now in administration), she gave Mr H the benefit of the doubt 
and upheld his complaint about that, recommending that Wirecard pay him £50.
Mr H did not accept that opinion. He said he should be paid interest on the £50 refund, and 
should also be paid his expenses and further compensation for his trouble. He also insisted 
that he should be paid more for the 2019 chargebacks. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review his case. Wirecard had nothing to add.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen Mr Hs statements, and they very clearly show two credits to his account, both 
with the word Compensation as the payment reference. These were for £25 on 12 August 
2019 and £49.95 on 15 August. So I am satisfied that he received the compensation and 
refunds Pockit promised him. I am also satisfied that these payments are fair compensation 
for how Pockit dealt with the 2019 chargeback claims, and I will not require Wirecard to do 
anything else about them.
I asked Pockit directly if it could provide any evidence about a chargeback claim in relation to 
the April 2018 payment. It provided me with all of its correspondence with Mr H at the time, 
including the evidence Mr H had provided, which consisted of emails between him and the 
merchant.
Having read this new evidence, I am persuaded that Pockit did nothing wrong in 2018, and 
so I am not minded to require Wirecard to pay £50 in relation to that matter. That is because 
Pockit repeatedly asked Mr H to provide it with a completed dispute form, and he not only 
failed to do that, he repeatedly refused to. Instead, he kept accusing Pockit of behaving 
vexatiously, and demanded to speak personally to its CEO. Without the dispute form, Pockit 
was unable to raise a chargeback under Mastercards rules. I think Pockit explained this to 
Mr H very clearly, and did everything it reasonably could to try to obtain Mr Hs co-operation, 
but this was not forthcoming. Once the time limit had expired, it would have been too late for 
Pockit to do anything, even if Mr H had later changed his mind (which he did not).
At the time, Mr H made representations to Pockit about section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974, and he persistently asked Pockit to identify which legislation it was relying on 
when it asked him for the dispute form and for the other documentation it had asked him for 
(which I will describe below), and he insisted that there was no time limit. Pockit explained 
that section 75 does not apply to pre-paid cards, and it was right about that. Chargeback is 
an entirely different remedy, and it is not statutory. It is a procedure set out in the rules of the 
card scheme operator, which in this instance was Mastercard. Unless Pockit could raise a 
chargeback claim which complied with Mastercards rules, there was no point in trying to 
raise one at all. It would have been doomed to fail.
I could stop here, but for completeness I will refer to the other documentation Pockit asked 
for. Pockit asked for screenshots of the email correspondence between Mr H and the 
merchant. Mr H refused, since he insisted that forwarding the emails was enough. Pockit did 
not refuse to raise a chargeback because of this; it explained that it would still raise a 
chargeback anyway (if the dispute form was provided), and that it had only asked for 
screenshots because (in Pockits opinion) they are harder to edit than forwarded emails. It 
said it was only trying to present Mr Hs case in its strongest possible light. I accept that 
explanation, and I think that Pockit tried in good faith to help Mr H bring his chargeback 
claim. Mr H repeatedly argued with Pockit about this point and he refused to provide 
screenshots, but Pockit was still willing to proceed without them. All it really wanted was the 
dispute form. I have no reason to doubt that the chargeback would have proceeded if Mr H 
had done what Pockit asked him to do, but he did not. That was not Pockits fault.
I am currently not minded to uphold any part of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional findings
Wirecard had nothing to add. Mr H did not reply. So there is no reason for me to change my 
provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021. If we do not hear from him, we will presume 
that he rejects it. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman