DRN-4274735
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) declined his claim 
following a road traffic accident he was involved in, under his motor insurance policy. 
Mr M is represented by his mother (Mrs M) in his complaint. I will refer to Mr M in my 
decision for ease.
What happened
Mr M was involved in a serious collision whilst driving his car in December 2020. The car 
was badly damaged having struck a tree. Both Mr M and his passenger suffered significant 
injuries. Both were taken to hospital. Mr Ms condition was considered to be very serious. 
Hes since recovered but his everyday life has been impacted by the injuries he suffered. 
Mr M says Admiral declined his claim following the accident as it says hed been drinking 
alcohol and was likely to have been over the drink drive limit. But Mr M says his blood 
alcohol was tested after the collision and was below the drink drive limit. 
In its complaint response Admiral says that approximately six hours after Mr Ms accident, a 
blood test showed 55mg of alcohol per 100ml of his blood. It says the legal limit to drive is 
80mg per 100ml of blood. This shows Mr Ms reading was around 68% of the legal limit 
approximately six hours after the accident occurred. Admiral says its probable the level of 
alcohol in Mr Ms blood was over the legal limit at the time of the accident. So, it declined to 
indemnify him for his loss. 
Mr M didnt think this was fair. He says the blood test showed he was under the legal alcohol 
limit to drive. He says Admiral shouldnt base its decision on probabilities. He says hed been 
injected with a number of different medications at the time of his hospitalisation, which could 
also have impacted on his blood sample results. Because he disagreed with Admirals 
decision he referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He says it wasnt clear when the blood sample 
was taken that was used to identify his blood alcohol level. Because of this he didnt think 
Admiral could reasonably show Mr M was driving whilst over the legal alcohol limit. Our 
investigator didnt think Admiral could fairly rely on the policy exclusions it had to decline his 
claim. He says Admiral should settle the claim based on the remaining policy terms.
Admiral disagreed. It says on the balance of probabilities, Mr Ms blood alcohol level 
exceeded the legally allowed level at the time of his accident. Our investigator didnt change 
his mind. So, Admiral asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Let me explain. 
The policy terms Admiral relied on to decline Mr Ms claim are copied below from the section 
entitled, General Conditions:
11. Drink and drugs clause
If an accident happens while any insured person is driving and:
is found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs
is driving while unfit through drink or drugs, whether prescribed or otherwise
fails to provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so, without 
lawful reason.
No cover under the policy will be given and instead, liability will be restricted to meeting the 
obligations as required by Road Traffic Law and we will cancel your policy. 
Ive read the police statement relating to Mr Ms accident. This says:
A blood sample was taken from [Mr M] and tested at approximately 03:01hrs on 
14/12/2020. This test was negative, 55mg of alcohol per 100ml of blood, with the legal limit 
being 80. 
A count back was requested, but there were too many unknown factors to calculate 
Mr M wasnt prosecuted for drink driving by the police. As the statement says - his blood 
alcohol level was found to be below the legal limit to drive. 
That said it isnt necessary for the insured to be convicted of drink driving in order for an 
insurer to reasonably decline a claim. Criminal prosecutions must meet a higher test, which 
is that of beyond a reasonable doubt. The test here is that of what is most likely to be true 
based on the balance of probabilities. Admiral says that in Mr Ms case the test result for his 
blood alcohol wasnt provided until around six hours after the accident. At this time, his 
alcohol level was approximately 68% of the drink drive limit. It has provided a response from 
its underwriters that says: 
Its inconceivable to suggest that [Mr M] wouldnt have been over the limit at the time 
bearing in mind there is 6 hours of metabolised alcohol which would add to the 55. Roadside 
screening couldnt be taken due to injuries. While this isnt evidence beyond reasonable 
doubt, we feel it meets balance of probabilities. 
In its final complaint response Admiral didnt explain how it assessed Mr Ms blood alcohol 
level at the time of the accident. However, its claim records refer to the approach its 
underwriters used here. It says blood alcohol rates in adults reduce by approximately 20mg 
per hour. In Mr Ms case this meant his blood alcohol level, at the time of the accident, was 
around 120mg higher than when it was tested - six hours later. This indicates Mr Ms blood 
alcohol level wouldve been approximately 175mg per 100ml of blood at the time of the 
accident. This is in excess of the legal limit to drive. 
Mr M argues that it isnt clear what time the sample was taken that was used to determine a 
blood alcohol level of 55mg per 100ml of blood. I note our investigator asked Admiral if it had 
evidence to show when the blood was taken. It responded to say the hospitals toxicology 
report would confirm the time the sample was taken, if this was needed. But it says the 
police statement recorded that the sample was taken and tested at approximately 03:01hrs. 
It says it was satisfied that its decline decision was correct based on this information. Our investigator maintained his view. Following which Admiral responded to say it had sent 
all the evidence, but it didnt agree with this outcome. 
Ive thought carefully about the police statement and what this says about when Mr Ms 
blood sample was taken. Having done so, I dont think its clear when this happened. The 
statement says the sample was tested at approximately 03:01hrs on 14 December 2020. But 
it isnt specific about when the blood was taken. I dont think its conclusively been shown 
that blood was taken at the same time as it was tested.
This is an important point in establishing whether its probable Mr M was over the drink drive 
limit at the time of the accident. The closer to the time of the accident that the sample was 
taken, the less likely it is that Mr M was over the limit. Admiral was given the opportunity to 
provide evidence in support of this point, but it didnt respond. 
Based on this, it cant reasonably be established that Mr M was over the drink drive limit at 
the time of the accident. None of the three policy exclusions highlighted by Admiral can 
therefore apply here. 
In summary I dont think Admiral has reasonably shown, on the balance of probabilities, that 
Mr M was driving whilst over the drink drive limit at the time of the accident. He didnt fail to 
provide a specimen of breath, blood, or urine. As it cant reasonably show that Mr M was 
driving whilst over the legal limit, Admiral cant rely on the policy exclusion that he was unfit 
to drive through drink. Because of this, I agree with our investigator that Admiral should now 
consider Mr Ms claim based on its remaining policy terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Admiral Insurance Company Limited should:
consider Mr Ms claim based on its remaining policy terms without relying on section 
11 of its General Conditions.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman