DRN-1249840
 
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way MoneyGram International Limited has handled a payment 
transfer he made. He is unhappy that he has not received his money back when the 
payment didn't reach the intended recipient.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr B made an overseas payment transfer online using MoneyGram. The 
payment method used required Mr B to enter the mobile number of the intended recipient 
which then enables the person to go to a local branch to draw out those funds. 
Unfortunately, the payment didn't reach the intended payee. 
Unhappy that the money had not arrived, Mr B contacted MoneyGram to find out what had 
happened. MoneyGram tried to recall the funds but found the money had been withdrawn on 
the same day of the transfer. It confirmed that the payment had been sent correctly, based 
on the information he had entered. It provided information to show that two digits from the 
mobile number had been entered incorrectly. It said that Mr B had entered the information 
incorrectly, so it was not prepared to reimburse the funds.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She found that MoneyGram hadn't done 
anything wrong when sending the transfer as it had shown the details had been entered 
incorrectly by Mr B. But she did discover that it took MoneyGram over a month to try to 
recover the funds which she said was unreasonable. She said MoneyGram should pay Mr B 
£50.00 compensation as he could have been notified of this problem much sooner and given 
information on further action he could take. 
MoneyGram agreed with the investigators view, but Mr B didn't. He told us he called 
MoneyGram on the same day as he made the transfer as the money hadn't shown in the 
recipients account and it told him the payment details were correct. And he said he used a 
send again option to make this payment, using the details from an earlier transaction, and 
so he doesn't believe he made this mistake.
As no resolution could be agreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  this means I have determined what I consider is more likely to have 
happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Mr B says he didn't use the wrong payment details and that MoneyGram has made the 
mistake  so he should be refunded the money. MoneyGram says it didn't make any error. So, what I need to consider is whether MoneyGram has done anything wrong and if it has 
acted fairly in the way it has handled this matter.   
The way this payment system works is that a mobile number is entered for the receiver and 
this enables them to obtain the funds. MoneyGram has provided a copy of the money receipt 
which it says was created following the information entered by Mr B and this shows an 
incorrect mobile number  two digits have been reversed. This would be quite a simple 
mistake to make when typing in a set of digits  so I can see how this could have 
happened. I must bear in mind that this is an online payment service Mr B was using and so 
there wasnt any involvement by MoneyGram staff  Mr B entered this information himself. 
When taking this all into consideration, I think its more likely the details were entered 
incorrectly by Mr B when he made the payment request. 
Mr B has told us that he used a send again option on the account. MoneyGram has said that 
whilst there is a send again option available, it isn't able to tell if Mr B used this on this 
particular transaction. But it says that this option selects the receiver only  the way the 
receiver gets the funds and the payment method still has to be entered. So, it seems that 
even if Mr B did use this function, and I cant say for certain that he did, there is still an 
opportunity to enter the wrong information. Based on this Im not persuaded that there is 
enough information to show that the error in entering the payment details was down to 
MoneyGram, and so Im satisfied it doesn't have to refund the money Mr B has lost on this 
transaction.
Im aware Mr B has told us he called MoneyGram on the day of the transaction and the staff 
member told him the mobile number used  he says the correct one was read out. 
Unfortunately, MoneyGram no longer has a copy of the call recording, so Im unable to 
confirm if this is the case. Ive thought about this carefully, but I dont think this makes a 
difference to my outcome. I say this because it appears the payment details had already 
been entered by Mr B before this call was made  so the error had already occurred. And 
even if it had been established in this call that the wrong payment details had been entered 
by Mr B, it is unlikely that MoneyGram would have been able to recover the funds before 
they were withdrawn  which was on the same day as the transaction. So, Im not 
persuaded MoneyGram needs to do anything further regarding this point.
From what I have been told, MoneyGram started the process of checking for the funds on 
the same day as the transaction. And their agent came back two days later to say that the 
funds had been successfully deposited in the account (which we now know is the incorrect 
account). MoneyGram then attempted to recover the money but was told that this had been 
withdrawn on the day of the transaction.
MoneyGrams terms and conditions say the following;
If the information you gave us about the Recipient (and, in the case of an online to 
account Transfer, the Recipients account) was incorrect, and we made the Transfer 
based on that information, we will be deemed to have made the Transfer properly, but 
we will still make reasonable efforts to recover the funds for you
However, as our investigator discovered, MoneyGram only started this recovery process a 
month after Mr B complained. Im not persuaded a month delay can be considered as 
reasonable efforts. This meant Mr B was kept waiting for a lot longer than necessary to find 
out if his money was going to be recovered. Whilst the delay didn't impact the recovery of 
the funds, I do think that MoneyGram should compensate Mr B for the stress and 
inconvenience this delay caused him. I therefore agree with our investigator that the sum of 
£50.00 would be a fair and reasonable amount of compensation in recognition of this delay.My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I partially uphold this complaint.
I require MoneyGram International Limited to pay Mr B £50.00 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman