DRN-3119793
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC said it couldnt refund them for a 
chargeback claim.
What happened
Mrs P booked a surprise boat trip for her husbands milestone birthday. They and their 
guests travelled over 100 miles to the venue on 26 September 2020, arriving around 9 am.  
Mr and Mrs P have explained that the boat that had been allocated to them had a strong 
smell of sewage, and the windows were blocked by towels. There were puddles on the floor, 
and Mr P slipped on one of them. Mr and Mrs P asked to speak to someone senior. The 
maintenance manager arrived about 11am. Mr and Mrs P complained, and the maintenance 
manager said hed have to make some phone calls. He came back to them about an hour 
later, and said they could have a smaller boat instead. Mr and Mrs P agreed, as theyd 
driven for over three hours for the special boat trip, and were told it would take 30  40 
minutes to get the replacement boat ready.
After an hour and a half, at 1.30pm, there was still no sign of the replacement boat. The 
maintenance manager said it would be another 5 minutes. But by 3pm there was still no 
boat, and no-one could tell Mr and Mrs P how long theyd have to wait. Theyd have to have 
training whenever the boat was ready, and wouldnt be allowed to travel in it in the dark. It 
was late September and bad weather, so it would be dark early. Mr and Mrs P decided to 
leave. They said they wanted a refund, but the maintenance manager said it would have to 
be done by someone more senior  who didnt work at weekends.
Emails and phone calls followed, but the boat firm refused to refund Mr and Mrs P. It 
apologised that there had been an issue with the boat theyd booked, but said theyd 
offered a replacement boat, although that had taken a little longer to prepare than 
expected. So the boat firm said it had been Mr and Mrs Ps choice to leave and cancel, so it 
wouldnt refund them. It said it would refund the fuel element of £175, and then send 
vouchers for the remaining £490.85 which they could use for another trip.
Mr and Mrs P werent satisfied. They contacted Barclays, as theyd paid through their 
Barclays debit card, and asked for a chargeback refund against the boat firm. In line with 
normal chargeback practice, Barclays put a temporary credit of £665.85 onto Mr and Mrs Ps 
account on 29 September, while the chargeback was pending. It submitted a chargeback for 
this amount.
 
The boat firm refunded two amounts to Mr and Mrs P: £152.05 on 29 September and £22.95 
on 30 September. So the balance which it hadnt refunded was £490.85.
The outcome of a chargeback is decided by the card scheme  the business that runs the 
payment network and chargeback scheme. The card scheme responded to Barclays and 
declined the chargeback. The reason it gave was that the merchant (the boat firm) said it 
had refunded Mr and Mrs P with a partial amount, and the rest of the booking was non-
refundable, so no further credit was due.
Barclays notified Mr and Mrs P on 28 November, and re-debited the temporary £665.85 
credit on 14 December.
Mr and Mrs P werent satisfied and complained to this service. They set out what had 
happened, and said that Barclays hadnt stuck to the timescales it had told them. They also 
said Barclays hadnt contacted them for more information, when the boat firm had 
responded. They said that the emails would have shown that the boat firm hadnt delivered 
the goods and services theyd paid for, so Barclays should have refunded them, and not sent 
the money back to the boat firm.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. She said that Barclays did raise a 
dispute on their behalf, but it had been rejected by the card scheme. She also explained that 
Barclays wasnt responsible for the decision, but it had done what it could in raising the 
dispute.
Mr and Mrs P werent satisfied and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs P were very upset about their disappointing experience on what 
should have been a special and celebratory occasion, and Im sorry to hear that. 
But my job isnt to decide whether or not Mr and Mrs P should have a refund from the boat 
firm  I dont have the authority to decide that, as this service can only consider complaints 
against financial organisations. My job is to decide the much narrower question of whether 
Barclays acted fairly and reasonably, and whether it did what it could within the processes of 
the chargeback scheme.
The key factor here is that Barclays wasnt the decision maker. All that card issuers (here, 
Barclays, who provided the debit card) can do is to submit claims to the card scheme within 
the rules of the scheme, for the card scheme to make the decision. And card issuers dont 
have to issue a chargeback claim at all, though its good practice to do so if theres a good 
reason. Here, Barclays submitted Mr and Mrs Ps claim, and it did so promptly. The 
response to the claim was that the chargeback was rejected. The reason given was that the 
boat firm said it had refunded a partial amount, and the rest of the booking was non-
refundable so there was no further refund due. And on this basis, the card scheme  not 
Barclays  decided that the chargeback wasnt accepted. 
I can see that the amount of the chargeback was submitted as the full amount which Mrs P 
paid, ie £665.85. Thats because at that point, the boat firm hadnt yet refunded the £175 fuel 
element. Given that the chargeback response said that a partial refund had been paid, Ive 
considered whether the outcome would have been any different if the claim had been 
submitted after the partial refund, and submitted for the lower amount of Mr and Mrs Ps 
eventual financial loss, £490.85. But I consider its more likely than not that the card scheme 
would still have rejected the claim for the lower amount. Thats because it said that the 
booking was non-refundable so there was no money due.
Mr and Mrs P said in their complaint form to this service that Barclays didnt stick to the 
timescales it had told them. They also said Barclays hadnt contacted them for more 
information, when the boat firm had responded. They said that the emails would have shown 
that the boat firm hadnt delivered the goods and services. But  Barclays fulfilled the timescales of the chargeback scheme  it wasnt turned down as out of time, for instance. 
And the boat firms defence against the chargeback wasnt that it had provided the goods 
and services  it was that it had issued a partial refund and they werent entitled to a refund 
for the rest under the terms and conditions of the original contract.
Theres never any guarantee that a chargeback will be successful. Its a voluntary scheme, 
and all Barclays could do was submit the claim in line with the proper processes. I find that 
Barclays did this in a timely and correct manner. It wasnt responsible for the outcome 
decision, which was taken by the card scheme.
I do understand Mr and Mrs Ps frustration, but ultimately, their complaint is against the boat 
firm. So Id suggest that their next step should be to take advice about how best they can 
pursue their claim against the boat firm.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman