DRN-1628205
The complaint
AE complains Starling Bank Limited didnt action a request they made for information on 
their account.
What happened
In October 2019 AE made two separate requests for a list of the payments they made to a 
particular payee  from their business and personal account.
Starling Bank responded to the requests a couple of days later. The personal account 
response provided AE with a list of all the transactions to the payee  it also added these 
could be accessed in AEs statements on their app. Starling Bank responded the same day 
to the business account  but the representative said they were unable to help and AE would 
need to verify this through their statements. 
AE was unhappy with this as they felt Starling Bank had ignored his request, so they raised 
a complaint with Starling Bank. AE was also unhappy as they felt Starling Banks response, 
was rude.
Starling Bank apologised for the response given on AEs business account. It said it 
provided feedback to the representative, as they couldve provided the information - but 
wasnt aware they could. It also said the information had already been sent when it 
responded to their personal account. 
AE wasnt happy with Starling Banks response. They brought their complaint to this service. 
They said they missed a deadline because the request wasnt actioned  so they wanted 
£100 compensation. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said although Starling Bank 
provided incorrect information when responding to the business account, it had already sent 
the information requested. So as AE had the required information and Starling had 
apologised for its error, it had done enough to put things right.
AE asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding AEs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Starling Bank said it provided all the information to AE in its first response - to the personal 
account. The email Starling Bank sent does list transactions, but doesn't say it was for both 
accounts - and as AE made separate requests I dont think this email made it clear to them 
what information it was providing.But Starling Bank made AE aware the information had been sent in the response shortly 
after, when they replied to the initial complaint. It also confirmed after there were no 
transactions to that payee specifically from the business account. So although I dont think 
Starling Bank was clear initially, I think it did quickly make it clear the information had already 
been sent.
I appreciate when AE received the response on their business account; not receiving the 
same breakdown wouldve been frustrating. But AE was given an option to check their 
statements, so they were still were given a way to access the information. Starling Bank 
apologised for the response and provided feedback to its representative  as they 
acknowledged it couldve given the information.  As I dont think AE was prevented from 
getting the information they needed, I think this is fair.
So Im not persuaded AE missed a deadline because of anything Starling Bank did. AE was 
provided the information and made aware of it within a reasonable timeframe. Although the 
second response differed to the first, they were still given a way to access the information 
needed. So I wont be asking Starling Bank to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold AEs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask  to accept or reject 
my decision before 15 April 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman