DRN-3823552
The complaint
Mr R and Mr L were business partners, trading as P. They complain that Barclays Bank UK 
PLC is unfairly holding Mr R liable for repayment of a Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
What happened
P opened a partnership bank account with Barclays in 2003. In 2015, the partnership was 
dissolved and Mr L continued in business as a sole trader.
In May 2020 there was an application for a £15,000 BBL, which Barclays accepted, and the 
funds were paid into the P bank account. The bank later received an application for a £3,750 
top-up, which was also approved and paid into the P bank account. 
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Under a government-backed scheme, lenders could 
provide a loan with a six-year term for up to 25% of the customers turnover, subject to a 
maximum of £50,000.
In 2021, repayments due for the BBL ran into arrears, and the bank pursued Mr R for the 
outstanding debt.
Mr R complained to Barclays, saying he had no knowledge of the BBL as he hadnt been 
part of the business for over five years. The bank said Mr Rs name was still on the 
partnership account and there had been no request from the partners for any change to the 
mandates. As a result, Barclays said Mr R remained liable for the debt on the account. 
Mr L joined the complaint and the matter was referred to this service.
Our investigator looked at all the evidence provided. She concluded that Barclays hadnt 
done anything wrong. In summary, she gave the following reasons:
Theres no evidence that the bank had been made aware that the partnership had 
been dissolved. Mr R said his solicitor had been in touch with the bank at the time of 
the dissolution, but the investigator could see no evidence of this in the banks 
records. The P account therefore remained a partnership account. Mr R probably 
hadnt seen the account statements because theyd been sent to the business 
address.
Mr L was still running the business when he applied for the BBL to keep it going 
during the pandemic. The authorisation on the P account mandate was one-to-sign. 
Mr L was therefore authorised to apply for the BBL.
The partnership was dissolved but the bank wasnt party to the process. Mr R wasnt 
involved in the BBL application and hasnt benefited from the funds, but he remained 
on the P account and he is therefore jointly and severally liable for the repayment of 
the debt.
Mr R felt that Barclays ought to have carried out know-your-customer (KYC) checks 
on the partnership  had it done so, it would have discovered that the partnership 
had been dissolved. But the bank pointed out that the business wasnt considered 
high risk and there was no requirement at the time for the bank to carry out KYC 
refresh checks. 
Mr R doesnt agree with the investigators findings. He says he can only presume that the 
mandate remained in both names because of an oversight by the accountants, solicitors or 
Mr L. But Mr R finds it difficult to believe the bank wasnt informed of the changes when the 
partnership was dissolved. He stresses that hes had nothing to do with the business since 
2016 and had no knowledge of the BBL until the bank contacted him about the arrears.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im sorry to tell Mr R and Mr L that Ive come to the same conclusions as 
the investigator and for largely the same reasons.
The partnership was dissolved and I dont doubt that the customers had an intention at the 
time to remove Mr R from the joint banking relationship with Barclays. But Ive seen no 
evidence that the partners or their representatives took action to remove Mr R from the 
account, or that the bank was informed about the end of the partnership. I agree this was 
probably the result of an oversight, but in any event theres nothing to suggest it was the 
banks fault.
The dissolution of the partnership brought the agreement between Mr R and Mr L to an end. 
But in this complaint, the agreement that I need to consider is the one between the partners 
and the bank  in other words, the contract for the P bank account. The bank wasnt party to 
the ending of the partnership between Mr R and Mr L, so the agreement with the bank 
remained in place. In the circumstances, I cant reasonably require the bank to set aside 
either Mr Rs or Mr Ls obligations under their agreement with the bank. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the P account as set out in the customer 
agreement. Im satisfied that both Mr R and Mr L were authorised to apply for lending and 
that any instruction given by one would commit both of them. Im also satisfied that the terms 
made them jointly and severally liable for any debt. Given that the P account agreement was 
still in force, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Barclays to hold Mr R liable for the 
BBL debt.
Mr R has said it would be interesting to know what affordability checks were undertaken by 
the bank. I understand his point here, but the BBL scheme was designed specifically for the 
extraordinary circumstances of the pandemic and had rules of its own. Applicants were 
required to give only a self-declared turnover figure for their business. No other affordability 
checks were required for applications from businesses that already had a bank account with 
the lender. I dont think the bank made any error in agreeing the loan.
I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr R, and I do understand that 
these events have left him in a very difficult position. But I dont find that Barclays has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman