DRN-3545940
The complaint and what happened
Mr A is unhappy Revolut Ltd refuses to refund six payments he thought he was making to a 
gambling platform.
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail. Ill recap the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In November 2020 Mr A opened an account with an overseas, online gambling platform 
and used his Revolut card (as well as cards with other providers) to add money to the 
account. He complained to Revolut when he was unable to withdraw any money from the 
platform. He says the platform was a scam and the money should have been reclaimed 
in line with Mastercards chargeback rules.
After the complaint was referred to this service, Revolut offered to refund approximately 
£1,600 to Mr A. Our investigator didnt think Revolut had done anything wrong and 
concluded that the offer was fair. Mr A accepted this but then Revolut withdrew the offer, 
saying it had been made by mistake. They offered £100 compensation to recognise any 
confusion Mr A may have been caused, which the investigator thought was fair and 
reasonable. Mr A disagreed and said hed already repaid some debts in expectation of 
receiving the original offer. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion that Revolut isnt required to 
refund the six disputed transactions. I say this for the following reasons.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I have reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The gambling platform website Mr A has pointed to is no longer active. But, from what hes 
said and from what Ive found through my own research, I think the platform was based 
overseas. In my experience, its not unusual for UK consumers to choose to use oversees 
gambling platforms because theyre often less restrictive than UK-based ones. But oversees 
platforms are often less scrupulous too. I acknowledge there are some negative reviews 
online about this particular platform. But Ive also seen some positive reviews from around 
the time Mr A used it. And some later reviews which suggest the platform has returned 
money to some consumers, albeit after repeated chasing. Overall Im not persuaded that this 
particular gambling platform was a scam. I say this despite Mr As assertion that other card 
providers have refunded some other payments he made. This decision has been made 
taking into account all the available evidence as well as the rules, regulations and best 
practice that apply in this particular case against Revolut.
Mr As recollections of events is somewhat inconstant. Hes indicated to this service that he 
didnt actually gamble the money he paid to the gambling platform and he provided a 
screenshot to this effect. But that screenshot is from a platform with a slightly different name 
to the one he originally gave to Revolut. And, in contrast, Revolut has provided a screenshot 
he gave them which shows the correct platform name and multiple gambling transactions. I 
also question why Mr A would send six payments, over approximately 24 hours, totalling 
close to £4,000 to a gambling platform if he wasnt actually gambling the money after it 
arrived at the platform. Hes also confirmed he sent money to the platform using other 
payment cards. I think its more likely than he did gamble the money after making the 
payments and Ive seen nothing which supports his assertion that he then tried to withdraw 
any of his original stake or any winnings or that any such requests were refused.
Mr A complained to Revolut that the gambling platform took larger amounts to what hed 
authorised, converted his money into a different currency and the two merchants names on 
his statement dont match the gambling platforms name. But I also note that:
The evidence provided by Revolut suggests that the first two payments Mr A tried to 
make to the gambling platform were declined. The first because he had insufficient 
money in his account to cover the £693.86 payment which, I note, was made after he 
topped up his account by £650. And the second was declined because it was flagged by 
Revoluts fraud detection system which then, apparently, required Mr A to unlock his 
debit card. The third payment attempt, for £533.86, went through. Mr A then topped up 
his account several more times, in between making payments to the gambling platform. 
And one other, subsequent payment to the platform was declined. The amounts Mr A 
topped up his Revolut account by were similar to the amounts that then left his account. 
And I think he ought to have noticed each time if the amounts being debited differed from 
the amounts hed authorised the gambling platform to take. Overall I dont accept his 
suggestion that the merchant took more from his account than he had authorised or that 
any currency conversions that took place werent expected, and accepted, at the time by 
Mr A.
I think its more likely than not the first merchants name showing now on Mr As account 
activity would also have been visible at the time he was making the payments. As Ive 
said, the first two transactions were declined and Mr A added money to his Revolut 
account before he managed to make a successful payment out. So its likely he would 
have seen the merchants name before any money actually left his account. Yet this 
didnt stop him attempting further payments. Revolut wouldnt have known about this 
discrepancy and so I dont think, in the circumstances, they ought to have had any 
concerns about this. Nor do I think this name mismatch means a chargeback would have 
been successful.
In light of the above, I dont think Revolut ought to have proceeded with the chargeback 
claim. For this card scheme, chargebacks are available for transactions in which a value is 
purchased for gambling, investment, or similar purposes. But there are no chargeback rights 
related to the use of these chips or value, unspent chips, or withdrawal of such value, or any 
winnings, gains or losses resulting from the use of such chips or value. Nor do I think 
Revolut ought to have otherwise intervened in, or prevented, the disputed transactions.
I understand Mr As disappointment when Revolut withdrew the original offer. But mistakes 
are sometimes made and it was Mr As choice to repay some debts before actually receiving 
the award. With this in mind, and because I dont think Revolut ought to refund any of the 
disputed transactions, I cant fairly instruct them to pay the original offer. I also think the 
more recent £100 offer of compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is that Revolut Ltd should pay £100 to Mr A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman