DRN-2628278
Complaint
Miss M has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to her. She says the loan is unaffordable and shes struggling to repay it.
Background
Likely Loans provided Miss M with a loan for £1,000.00 in February 2018. This loan had an 
APR of 59.9% and was due to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £106.50, which meant 
the total amount to be repaid was £1,278.00. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss M and Likely Loans had told us. And she 
thought Likely Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss M unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend that Miss Ms complaint be upheld. Miss M disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ms complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss M could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Miss Ms application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Miss M could 
to comfortably make the low monthly repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, 
Miss M has said she couldnt afford the payments.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss M and Likely Loans have said. 
I have to start by saying that Miss M was borrowing a relatively low amount and was 
committing to maintain a relatively low monthly payment for not too long a period of time. So, 
in these circumstances, a lighter touch assessment might have been reasonable and 
proportionate as long as the information obtained was consistent and plausible. Likely Loans 
credit file enquiries showed Miss Ms debt total at the time of the application was reasonable 
in comparison to her declared income, appeared to be reasonably managed and she only 
had four active accounts. 
I accept that Miss Ms actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. And Im sorry to hear that 
she found it difficult to make her payments. Its possible that if Likely Loans had carried out 
further checks  such as obtaining bank statements  it might have discovered Miss Ms 
gambling or her payday loans and potentially reached a different outcome. But the key here 
is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, the lack of obvious inconsistencies as well as the relative 
plausibility of what Likely Loans had gathered, I dont think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Miss M is suggesting. As 
this is the case, I think that Likely Loans carried out proportionate checks and reasonably 
relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Miss M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Miss M. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman