DRN-2482309
The complaint
Ms S complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) has not offered her a 
fair value for her annuities. She also thinks it has taken too long to sort out. And would like 
an actuary to carry out the calculation to make sure it is fair.
What happened
Ms S is very unhappy with the way that Standard Life has dealt with her request to cash in 
her annuities with it. Ms S had three annuities that she wished to cash in. Initially Standard 
Life only agreed to offer a cash value for the smallest of these annuities. But later it agreed 
to also make an offer for the middle annuity. The largest annuity its agreed by both parties is 
worth over £10,000 and so doesnt fall under the legislation that allows a cash offer to be 
paid for the annuity.
Ms S has said that Standard Life have taken too long, being unclear in their offer and havent 
dealt fairly with her considering it is her money. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, 
she felt that Standard Life had made a fair offer and explained why. Ms S accused the 
investigator of being a mouth-piece for Standard Life and didnt agree. And she thinks 
Standard Life should pay for an actuary to calculate a fair offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What is it I have to decide?
I need to decide whether Standard Life has acted fairly and reasonably in the offers it made 
to Ms S to purchase her annuities.
Ms Ss circumstances
Ms S told Standard Life that due to the impact of the pandemic, she was in financial difficulty 
and a cash value in place of her annuities would be very helpful. She knew that a provider 
within Standard Lifes parent group had helped some of its customers by making offers on 
their annuities. And so she asked if Standard Life would do the same for her.
Does Standard Life have to make an offer to Ms S? What does the legislation say?
When Ms S took out her annuities, she didnt have the option to take the pension benefits as 
a lump sum. Her options were largely restricted to taking out an annuity.
Since then legislation around annuities has changed and since the introduction of pension 
freedoms legislation, providers can now offer customers the opportunity to take the whole 
fund as a lump sum rather than taking an annuity. But this legislation didnt say that annuities 
already in payment could be taken as a lump sum.
The government looked at introducing a secondary annuity market, where customers would 
be able to cash in their annuities. But, after consultation, the government didnt carry this 
forward, mainly because of concerns that it wouldnt be in consumers best interest to cash 
in annuities. And because of the complexities around valuing this and whether this would 
provide fair value to customers.
So, the current rules generally dont allow a customer to cash in an annuity and take a lump 
sum payment. However, in instances where the value of that annuity is less than £10,000, it 
can be cashed in if the provider offers this. 
The majority of providers have chosen not to offer this option to their customers. And on the 
occasions, it has been offered, a commercial decision has been taken for a group of 
customers or decisions have been made on an individual basis for those with a particular set 
of circumstances.
However, here Standard Life agreed to make an offer to Ms S based on her circumstances. 
It made an offer to Ms S on one annuity using a factor of x20 years and the other x23 years. 
The difference being one annuity had a spouses pension attached the other did not. 
Ms Ss unhappiness with the offer
Ms S has said this is her money and Standard Life has put in place a lot of obstacles and 
barriers to her getting it. But having considered the evidence and the context I disagree.
Ms S when she purchased her annuities, sold the money that she invested with Standard 
Life and in place bought three annuities. This began a separate contract(s) from that of the 
pension. This contract was to pay the annuities for the rest of her life.
This means, in effect, that Ms S sold her pension savings to Standard Life in exchange for 
an income for life. So, this means there is no money in Ms Ss name any longer, she used 
that to buy the annuities. 
Under the legislation, as many providers have done so, Standard Life couldve made a 
business decision not to make any offers to its customers at all. And it's worth noting that, 
Standard Life is in fact more open-minded than most of the rest of the industry in its 
consideration of customers requests for cashing in annuities.
Ms S has raised questions as to whether Standard Life is just protecting its commercial 
interest. Whether this is true or not, in any event the legislation allows it to do just that, they 
are not obliged to make offers to their customers. Ms S has also said the only barrier or 
consideration should be whether the annuity is valued under £10,000 and in initially not 
offering to cash in the middle annuity, Standard Life is being discriminatory. But Ms S is 
mistaken here. The limit of £10,000 is the cut-off point of the legislation but as I explained 
businesses are not obliged to make any offers at all. And in most cases where offers have 
been made, they have been made on the smaller annuities, that dont really provide a 
material level of income. 
Ms Ss middle annuity was worth considerably more than that. And had Ms Ss complaint 
came to our organisation without an offer, I dont think we wouldve said Standard Life 
shouldve made an offer. So whilst it has since changed its mind, I dont think it did anything 
wrong in initially turning down Ms Ss request. And therefore, I dont think it has taken too 
long to deal with this situation.
Are the offers made, fair and reasonable?The starting point here is there is no framework within the legislation of how to calculate a 
cash-in value. Thats in part because once an annuity is in payment it doesnt have a value 
as it was never designed to be cashed-in. This is often given as one of the reasons 
businesses have chosen not to use this discretion at all. As there is no legislation in place to 
say what a fair offer is. 
Whilst there is no framework to how this offer should be calculated, I would expect 
businesses to make an offer that is fair and reasonable.
That said, customers dont have to accept this offer, if they dont think its a better offer than 
the annuity they already have, they can continue with the annuity. Im aware that some 
businesses have made offers to sets of customers on a commercial basis and if a customer 
doesnt think the offer is high enough thats a judgement call for them to make. As far as Im 
aware the regulator is happy with this practice. 
Standard Lifes offer for the annuities at 20 and 23 years of their value is in my view a fair 
and reasonable offer. It has explained its used the average life expectancy of someone Ms 
Ss age. And then it calculated how much at the current annuity pricing rate it would cost to 
pay these annuities for the corresponding amount of years.
Ms S has argued that the average life expectancy for someone of her age is higher than 
what Standard Life has used and that an actuary should be appointed to carry out a new 
calculation. Having looked at Ms Ss age and the national statistics, I think whats been used 
is broadly in line with the national averages. And if Ms S didnt want to accept the offer, she 
didnt have to. Ms S could instruct an actuary herself (I dont think it would be fair to expect 
Standard Life to pay for it) but it would be costly and ultimately as there is no framework to 
what constitutes a correct offer, Im not sure it would achieve much.
Ms S has also questioned the application of protected-rights and a spouses pension within 
the offers made. 
Ms S says that she wasnt married and protected-rights have been abolished so this 
shouldnt have been applied to her annuity. And she might have lost out due to this mistake. 
But this mis-understands how protected-rights contributions and the legislation that covers 
them applies to pension and annuities. 
Any contributions that came from a contracted-out employers scheme or personal pension 
scheme before 2012 (when contracting-out of the state second pension was abolished) are 
treated as protected-rights and had to include a 50% spouses pension when taking an 
annuity whether it was wanted or not. Because of the separate legislation that applied to 
protected-rights when compared with non-protected rights, her policies were split into two. 
So when Ms S came to take her annuities she could make separate choices  such as 
whether to take a spouses pension from the non-protected rights. This was standard 
industry practice and in a customers better interest. And Im satisfied from the evidence and 
explanation provided by Standard Life that the protected-rights is assigned to the correct 
annuity.
Conclusion
For all the reasons explained, I think that Standard Life has acted fairly and reasonably and I 
dont think it has done anything wrong. So I wont be upholding this complaint and I make no 
award.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained, I do not uphold Ms Ss complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman