DRN-3752052
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the interest that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna 
Personal Finance (Novuna) has applied to her fixed sum loan. 
What happened
Mrs R entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Novuna for £ 2,876 on 16 March 2020. 
The agreement was for 132 months and was used to purchase furniture. Mrs R was required 
to repay £61.84 monthly, for 120 months. These repayments were due to start 12 months 
after the date the furniture was supplied. 
In July 2022, Mrs R contacted Novuna and explained that she was unaware interest would 
be payable on the loan she had taken out. Novuna responded and advised that the credit 
agreement Mrs R electronically signed, explained that interest would be applied if the loan 
wasnt repaid inside the first 12 months. Novuna went on to say that it had sent an email to 
Mrs R which explained the 12-month deferral period was coming to end. This explained what 
was required for interest to not be applied and what would happen if repayment in full wasnt 
made. Novuna also said a text message was sent to Mrs R to make her aware an important 
email had been sent. 
Novuna was therefore satisfied interest had been correctly applied in line with the terms of 
the agreement that Mrs R had agreed to. It was also satisfied that it had made her aware of 
when interest would be applied and what she needed to do to avoid it. 
Mrs R disagreed and said she didnt fill in any details on the credit agreement. She also 
explained that the email Novuna sent went to her junk folder and so she didnt see it. Mrs R 
therefore brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator considered the complaint 
and concluded that Mrs R had signed the credit agreement that explained interest would 
apply. He also said that Novuna had contacted Mrs R with sufficient notice before the 
deferral period ended, to explain her options. 
As Mrs R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mrs Rs credit agreement and it clearly explains that the fixed sum loan Mrs R 
was taking out was interest bearing. It details an interest rate and gives the charge for credit. 
Under the repayments section, the agreement also explains that the loan has a 12-month 
deferral period before repayments are due to commence. Its then states:
If by the Deferred First Payment Date you have paid us the Amount of Credit in full, you will 
not have to pay any interest but you will have to pay an administration fee of £29. We will 
send you a reminder before the Deferred First Payment Date.
I acknowledge that Mrs R says she never filled out the credit agreement and all she did was 
electronically sign it. However, by signing the agreement Mrs R agreed to be bound by its 
terms. I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that Mrs R wouldve read the terms, 
especially around the interest, before signing and agreeing to be bound to the agreement. In 
any event, Im satisfied the agreement did include interest, which was clearly explained to 
Mrs R and Mrs R agreed to this. 
For intertest to not be applicable, Mrs R needed to repay the loan before the deferred first 
payment. This was due 12 months after the date the furniture was supplied. As per the 
agreement, Novuna needed to have sent Mrs R a reminder of when the deferral period was 
coming to an end. For Mrs Rs loan this was 27 August 2021. 
Novunas records show that it sent Mrs R an email on 16 July 2021. This explained that the 
deferral period was coming to an end and detailed her options. One of these options was to 
repay the outstanding balance of £2,755 by 27 August 2021. This would have meant no 
interest would have been payable. 
Following the email, Novunas records also show it did send a text message to Mrs R on 
21 July 2021. This was to make her aware an important message has been emailed to her. 
Mrs R says she checked her emails following this text message, but she didnt see the email 
because it went into her junk folder.
 
Im satisfied that Novuna did email and sent a text message to Mrs R, providing her notice of 
when the deferral period would end on her loan. Novuna explained what was required to 
ensure interest wouldnt be applied. I appreciate Mrs Rs frustration that she didnt see the 
email, because it went into her junk folder. But I cant hold Novena responsible for this. The 
email was sent and sent to the correct email address, as evidenced by it being received into 
Mrs Rs junk folder. 
In addition, Mrs R did receive the text message from Novuna explaining an important email 
had been sent to her. When this wasnt in her inbox, Mrs R couldve checked the junk folder 
or called Novuna back to explain she couldnt see the email the text message was referring 
to. Novuna wasnt required to do anything more to provide notice to Mrs R that her deferral 
period was coming to an end.
Overall, Im satisfied Novuna provided a reminder of when the deferral period was due to 
end and what would happen after if full payment wasnt made. As no further payment was 
made, before the deferral period ended, Novuna correctly charged the interest in line with 
the agreement that Mrs R signed to be bound by. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint against Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna 
Personal Finance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman