DRN-3996788
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lendable Ltd lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr Ss complaint is about a loan provided by Lendable. The loan was advanced in April 2022 
for £5000 over a term of 60 months with monthly repayments of £107.90.
Mr S says the lending was irresponsible.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. He said Lendable hadnt carried out 
reasonable and [proportionate checks before approving the loan. The investigator said 
Lendable should remove all interest and charges and deduct all repayments made by Mr S 
from the £500 Mr S initially received and then agree an affordable repayment plan for the 
balance.
Lendable accepted the investigators view.
Mr S said he wanted the balance written off because he had significant financial and mental 
health issues.
Our investigator asked Lendable if it would consider writing if the balance. Lendable hasnt 
replied so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including 
the relevant key rules, guidance and good industry practice, are set out on this services 
website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ss complaint.
Lendable needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to make 
sure Mr S could afford to repay what was being lent in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the length of the agreement, the amount of repayments, the total amount 
repayable and what Lendable knew about Mr S at the time he applied for the loan.
Ive reviewed the information about the checks Lendable carried out. Lendable asked Mr S 
to declare his income on the application form. It checked Mr Ss credit file via a credit 
reference agency.
Ive thought about how much Mr S was borrowing and the length of time he was going to be 
making repayments for. Because of the size of the loan, in relation to Mr Ss income, I think 
Lendable should have carried out further checks to obtain information about r Ss income 
and expenditure. I cant see that any checks were made of Mr Ss expenditure, so Lendable 
cant have known how much (if any) disposable income Mr S had each month to make loan 
repayments.
Ive looked at Mr Ss bank statements for the period prior to the loan being approved. These 
show that Mr S was spending heavily on gambling. For example, in the week 12-19 April Mr 
S spent £8200 on gambling transactions. 
If Lendable had carried out these further checks, it would have seen that Mr S wasnt likely 
to be able to sustainably repay the loan. I dont think it was responsible of Lendable to 
approve the loan, given Mr Ss financial circumstances at the time.
Lendable should remove all interest and charges and deduct repayments made by Mr S 
leaving the balance to be repaid under a payment arrangement. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ss request to have the balance written off completely. This isnt 
something that this service would generally ask a business to do to resolve an irresponsible 
lending complaint. I have sympathy with Mr Ss circumstances but these are common to 
many cases of this nature. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Lendable to write off the 
balance. This doesnt mean that Lendable cant agree to do this in the future directly with Mr 
S.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Lendable Ltd should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of being given the loan and 
deduct all repayments made by Mr S
(a)if this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, any overpayments should be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made until the date of settlement*
(b)if any capital balance remains outstanding, Lendable must agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr S
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to the loan
*HMRC require Lendable to take off tax from the interest. Lendable must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman