DRN-2306503
The complaint
Mr E complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) have paid less than it should 
have towards the cost of replacing his boiler under his home emergency policy.
 
What happened
Mr E has a policy with D&G that provides an annual service for his central heating boiler and 
insurance against breakdown. It also provides for a contribution towards the cost of a 
replacement boiler if it cant be repaired. During a service in October 2019 the engineer said 
the boiler was dangerous. It would need to be written off as parts were no longer available. 
The next day D&G confirmed it would contribute £750 towards the replacement cost. Mr E 
contacted D&G to complain as he thought the policy should contribute £1,500.  
D&G didnt uphold the complaint saying the policy had a £1,500 repair limit rather than 
replacement value. It said Mr E was free to find his own engineer to see if they could fix the 
boiler. It could authorise costs up to £200 for this immediately and would consider any 
additional costs as required. Mr E wanted to consider the situation. He decided to replace 
the boiler. D&G sent him a cheque for £750.
Mr E wasnt satisfied and referred his complaint to our service. He said D&G should pay 
£1,500 for the boiler and £500 for his distress and inconvenience. Our investigator looked 
into his complaint but didnt uphold it. He said in offering £750 D&G had made an error, but it 
was in Mr Es favour. The terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the policy said the replacement 
payment would be the lesser of £1,500 or the manufacturers fixed repair cost, which was 
£335.88. By offering Mr E £750 D&G had done more than it needed to. So, it hadnt treated 
him unfairly or unreasonably and couldnt be asked to do anymore.
Mr E said as the boiler couldnt be repaired the fixed repair cost was a fictitious figure, being 
used to muddy the waters and D&G should pay the £1,500 shown clearly in the T&Cs. He 
noted that his daughter had the same policy from D&G, but the terms were different, 
showing the £750 replacement cost he had been offered. He said his T&Cs hadnt been 
changed. As Mr E doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 31 October 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I needed to consider whether D&G has acted fairly and reasonably in line with the T&Cs of 
the policy, the law and industry good practice in its dealings with him and I dont think it had. 
Mr E was correct that D&G has changed the T&Cs of the policy. It did incorrectly apply and 
refer him to the new T&Cs rather than the actual terms of his policy. This caused confusion 
and understandable suspicion, but I thought this was an innocent error. D&G was in the 
process of updating for existing customers T&Cs, but Mr Es hadnt been updated at this 
point.
D&G argued that this error has benefited Mr E as the new T&Cs offered a larger payment 
than would have been available under the actual T&Cs applying to his policy. The new 
T&Cs provided a payment of £750 towards the cost of a replacement boiler if it couldnt be 
repaired. 
The T&Cs actually applicable to Mr Es set out an overall policy limit of £1,500 for repairs 
and replacement: 
the policy limit is the most well pay in total towards repairs and/or towards a 
replacement for the product. The policy limit is £1,500.  
This does say the policy will pay £1,500 towards replacement and this is what Mr E 
understood the policy to offer.
There was a further section in the T&Cs headed Repairs and write offs Which says if a 
product cant be repaired vouchers or cash will be provided instead (of repair) and:
will be the lesser of either:
Our repairers estimated cost of the repair (this will often be the manufacturers fixed 
price repair charge); or
the balance of the policy limit 
Under this policy you will not receive a replacement boiler and we will therefore not be 
responsible for any installation and delivery costs.
I didnt think this wording was clear enough for Mr E to realise that it meant if the boiler 
couldnt be repaired the policy limit didnt apply and what the policy did offer was a set but 
undisclosed amount, based on a something not actually available. And that this set amount 
was significantly less than the £1,500 policy limit.  
D&G has said that the maximum the policy provided for was £335.88  the manufacturers 
fixed price repair charge rather than the balance of the policy limit of £1,500. Whilst it offered 
Mr E the option of seeking repair via his own engineer it had already said the parts werent 
available. As Mr E had no heating or hot water, he decided to urgently replace the boiler. 
This clause doesnt refer to parts availability and as D&G said the boiler couldnt be repaired, 
I dont think it is reasonable to refer to a fixed price repair that isnt available rather than the 
balance of the policy limit also provided for. 
If parts could have been obtained the policy would have paid out up to £1,500, but because 
parts cant be obtained it effectively offers a set policy amount. In this case, only £335.88. 
This is a substantial difference and it wasnt clearly disclosed to Mr E, despite D&G holding 
full details of his boiler. I dont think there is enough information in the documents provided to 
Mr E for him to be been aware of the significance of this clause relative to the premiums he 
was paying and policy limit of £1,500. So, I dont think it is fair and reasonable. 
Whilst D&G made an error and paid out more that the fixed priced repair charge provided 
for, as I dont think that term is reasonable, I think D&G should pay Mr E a further amount of 
£750 to meet the full £1,500 provided for under the policy limit.
I think Mr E has been inconvenienced by both the delay and in need to bring a complaint 
about this so D&G should add interest to the balance amount due to Mr E and pay 
compensation of £150 for his trouble and upset.I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 30 November 2020.
Response to provisional decision
Mr E said he agreed with the decision.
D&G didnt agree with my decision and made several points. It said the policy did refer to 
parts availability in respect of repairs and write-offs in the paragraph above and that the 
terms of the policy were very clear. It said Mr E had already received £394.12 more than the 
original terms of his plan provided for. And if this amount was increased to the repair limit of 
the plan of £1,500 then he would be receiving considerably more than he was entitled too. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
Ive carefully considered D&Gs comments, but they havent changed my view and I dont 
think the policy terms are clear.
The paragraph referred to by D&G does mention lack of parts availability along with several 
other scenarios. These include the inability to make a repair, where repair costs would 
exceed the cost of a new product or repairing would exceed the policy limit.  Any of which 
would trigger the condition I refer to above being the lesser of the fixed price repair charge or 
the balance of the policy limit. But I dont think it was clear what this meant for Mr E in terms 
of what cover would be provided in these scenarios.
The policys purpose is to provide for repair and or a contribution to replace the boiler. The 
policy limit quoted for repair or towards replacement was £1,500 if repairs could be made. I 
dont think that is fair and reasonable for this to default to a reduced, significantly in this 
case, fixed price repair charge should parts not be available or be too expensive and so on, 
without the implications of this being fully disclosed to the policyholder in monetary terms. 
From the information provided to him I think Mr E was right to think that the policy did offer 
cover of up to £1,500 and had he known the policy was effectively capped at an upper claim 
limit of £335.88 he more likely than not wouldnt have continued with it.
I think D&G should pay Mr E a further £750 being the balance of the claim to the £1,500 
policy limit with interest at 8% a year simple from the date it first settled his claim and pay Mr 
E £150 for his trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Domestic & General Insurance Plc.
I direct Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay Mr E a further £750 with interest at 8% a 
year simple from the date it settled his claim and further £150 in compensation for trouble 
and upset. 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If Domestic & General Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell how much its taken off. It should also 
give a certificate showing this if Mr E asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman