DRN-1430865
The complaint
Mr R says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr R was sold PPI over the phone sometime after taking out a credit card in 2004. Capital 
One said it wasn't mis-sold but has now offered to refund some commission and profit share 
it received from selling it. 
Our adjudicator didn't think the PPI was mis-sold and thought Capital One's offer was fair. Mr 
R disagreed, so I've been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr R case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons.
I think Capital One made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr R got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Capital One will pay back some cost of the PPI to Mr R because it got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr 
R about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr R, that was unfair. To put that right, Capital 
One has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said. But these points dont change my decision.Putting things right
Capital One has to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should also pay back to Mr R any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr R the difference 
between what Mr R owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Mr R 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr R can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman