DRN-2652470
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn Limited (Moneybarn).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr H. The car here was 
around six years old and had completed about 78,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable person 
would expect some wear and tear to be present. Im persuaded that the problem Mr H has 
experienced is likely to have been due to fair wear and tear.
I say that because I think its fair to say the clutch is a part that wears with age and I think a 
reasonable person would think a failure after 84,000 miles, as was the case here, is not 
unusual. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to hold Moneybarn responsible for the repair costs as I dont 
think there is evidence here that the car, or the clutch, was of inadequate quality. 
And, even if Im wrong about that, Moneybarn are only responsible for the quality of the car 
when supplied. When Mr H took his car to the garage in April 2019 the garage topped up the 
gearbox oil, but they explained that they couldnt find fault with the clutch, there were no fluid 
leaks and the car drove well. I think this suggests that in April 2019 the clutch wasnt faulty 
and that any fault that has now occurred developed after April 2019 and therefore after the 
point at which Moneybarn were responsible for the quality of the car.
Im therefore not asking Moneybarn to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman