DRN-3892205
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service provided by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) when dealing 
with renewal of his car insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr B took out car insurance with Aviva in 2015. He renewed his policy each year with Aviva. 
In July 2022 Aviva sent Mr B a renewal quote for £507.03. The renewal letter explained 
Your policy expires on 23.59 on 31 Aug 2022. Mr B has explained that due to a number of 
personal issues he was unable to respond by this deadline. Mr Bs insurance policy lapsed. 
Mr B contacted Aviva on 26 September 2022 asking for a quote for car insurance. The quote 
he was given for a new policy with Aviva was £753.03. 
Mr B complained to Aviva about the increase in premium. He was unhappy that the premium 
had increased so much within a short space of time despite him being a loyal customer. 
Aviva responded to Mr Bs complaint saying that the premium had changed because the 
quote provided in September was calculated differently to the renewal quote provided in 
July. Aviva said the higher premium was based on market conditions at the time of Mr Bs 
request for a quote. Mr B was unhappy with this response, and brought the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The investigator found that Aviva had acted reasonably and didnt ask Aviva to do anything 
in settlement of Mr Bs complaint. Mr B rejected these findings, saying Aviva should consider 
the exceptional circumstances for why he didnt renew on time.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I dont think Aviva need to do anything in settlement of this 
complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr B but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B has explained why he wasnt able to respond to Avivas renewal letter in July 2022 on 
time. I thank Mr B for taking the time to explain his personal circumstances to this service. I 
appreciate it was a difficult time for Mr B. But I cant ask Aviva to honour the renewal quote it 
gave in July unless I can see evidence that Aviva did something wrong, and honouring the 
renewal quote would be a reasonable way to put things right. 
A customer may expect a simple explanation for a price increase like Mr Bs experienced. 
But for an insurer, there may be hundreds, or even thousands of variables it has to consider 
when setting a premium  including its own commercial requirements. And we generally take 
the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customers with similar 
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk.
In this case I understand that Mr B thinks that his risk factors hadnt changed. So he doesn't 
understand the steep rise in premium within such a short amount of time. But insurers will re-
rate the risks they consider regularly. And many insurers will do this on a daily basis. So the 
quotes an insurer provides will vary from day-to-day and year-to-year as their assessment of 
those risk factors change.
The quote provided at renewal wouldve been created based on market conditions at the 
time. Although I can appreciate Mr Bs disappointment at how quickly the quote changed 
only weeks later, this change isnt unreasonable when considering how quickly market 
conditions move, and the impact that this generally has on insurance pricing. 
Aviva has given us some information about how they calculated Mr Bs premiums. That 
information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mr B. But, having looked at it 
carefully, Im satisfied Aviva has treated Mr B as it would other consumers with similar 
circumstances. So, although I'm not in a position to explain to Mr B why the quote provided 
in September was much higher than the renewal quote given to him only a few weeks 
earlier, Im satisfied that Aviva dealt with Mr B fairly and that they havent treated him 
differently to any other customer in the same circumstances. 
Although I appreciate the frustration and upset caused to Mr B by Avivas business 
processes, I am satisfied these actions were reasonable. Because of this, I wont be asking 
Aviva to do anything in settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman