DRN-3617267
The complaint
Mr M complains about a savings account he held with Santander UK Plc (Santander).
Mr M says money is missing from the account and its been closed without his consent.
Mr M is being represented by a third party on this complaint, who was also previously the 
trustee on the account. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Santander have sent us information that shows the balance of the account was 
withdrawn in cash in a branch on 10 March 2014. I find this information persuasive as 
Im satisfied it was recorded at the point of withdrawal. 
Although Mr Ms representative has said the savings account passbook was updated 
recently when she went into a branch, Im satisfied that this was most likely done to 
bring it up to date with the information Santander held on its internal systems. I 
havent seen any information thats persuaded me the internal screenshots showing 
the withdrawal were also produced in 2021 during the branch visit. 
Although Santander have been unable to supply a copy of a closure letter, I dont find 
this unreasonable given the account was closed in branch and the length of time 
thats passed since the withdrawal and closure. Businesses will often delete most of 
the information they hold on a consumer after six years. 
I understand Mr Ms representative has said several times that her integrity is being 
questioned, but Id like to reassure her thats not the case. Given the time thats 
passed since the money was withdrawn, its entirely possible that the withdrawal and 
closure may have been forgotten. Ive based my findings on the information thats 
been provided and based on what Ive seen, I havent found the business have acted 
unfairly when its said the money was withdrawn from the account in 2014. 
In summary, the most persuasive information Ive been given as to the whereabouts 
of the money is that it was withdrawn in the branch in 2014. I understand and 
appreciate Mr Ms representatives comments about the passbook being stamped in 
2021 - but Im not persuaded that means the money has been kept by Santander as 
opposed to Santander rectifying an earlier admin error. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr M and his representatives frustration, I do not 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman