The complaint
Mr H says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2006. The policy was added to 
Mr Hs credit card account when he applied for the credit card during a meeting with the 
bank. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement which Mr H signed. Theres a box to mark if
the applicant wished to buy PPI. And the PPI was referred to as a type of Optional
Insurance. Theres a cross in the box, indicating that Mr H wanted to take the cover.
And he signed specifically to confirm that he wished to take the cover, in addition to
signing the form overall.
Ive borne in mind that Mr Hs told us that the meeting was very quick, and that the
adviser never mentioned that PPI was going to be included. But I'd have expected Mr
H to check the agreement over before signing it. And Im satisfied that it was clear
from the way the form was set out that the PPI was optional and that he was opting
to take it. Overall, I think Mr H decided to take the PPI, knowing that he had a choice
 although I can understand why he may no longer remember this, so long after the
event.
RBS didn't recommend the PPI to Mr H. This means it didn't have to check if it was
suitable for him. But it did have a responsibility to give Mr H clear enough information
DRN-1617737to enable him to decide whether the PPI was right for him, knowing what other 
means hed have had of making his monthly credit card payments if hed been off 
sick, or if he'd lost his job.
 
Mr H has told us hed haven been entitled to six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay from his employer if hed been off sick. He says he'd also have been 
entitled to a generous redundancy package. But if hed made a successful claim for 
accident or sickness on the policy, it would have paid out in addition to any payments 
Mr H received from his employer, allowing him to use those to meet other living 
expenses. Whats more, it would have done so for up to 12 months, which is longer 
than Mr Hs told us hed have been entitled to full pay from his employer for. So I 
think the policy could have been useful to him - especially as he's told us that aside 
from the payments he'd have received from his employer, he didn't have any means 
he could have used to make his credit card repayments if he'd been off sick or if he 
lost his job. 
 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr H about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr H chose to take out the policy. So he appears to have 
wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now. Based on 
what he's told us about his circumstances at the time, he wasn't affected by any of 
the main things the policy didn't cover (for example, unusual working arrangements 
or existing medical conditions). 
 
Mr H has commented that he wasn't told he'd have to make monthly payments for 
the PPI. I accept that it's possible that the information about the cost of the policy 
wasn't as clear as it could have been. But I think it was clear from the credit 
agreement that Mr H would need to pay for the PPI. The policy was competitively 
priced and I've seen nothing to make me think Mr H couldn't afford it.  I've also borne 
in mind that the monthly payments for the PPI would have been visible on Mr H's 
credit card statements. And as he was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled 
the PPI with no further cost if his circumstances changed, or he'd decided he no 
longer wanted the cover. 
 
So overall, I think it unlikely that Mr H would have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance, I think hed still have taken out the 
policy.
 
This means that RBS doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
 
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman