DRN-3135599
The complaint
Mr J complains about his insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA). His complaint is about the 
offer made by AXA to settle a claim for the theft of his mountain bike under his home 
insurance policy. 
Reference to AXA includes their agents who administer the policy and assess claims.  
What happened
In October 2020 the garage at Mr Js property was broken into and his mountain bike was 
stolen. He reported the theft to AXA, who appointed a bike specialist (W) to validate and 
assess the claim. As the model of bike was no longer in production, W based their 
assessment on a newer version of the bike that they said exceeded the specification of the 
original model. However, due to the impact of Covid restrictions on the manufacturer, W 
couldnt obtain the newer model and instead offered Mr J vouchers redeemable through a 
network of suppliers to the value of £3,333.99 (the cost of the newer model). Mr Js bike was 
listed as a high value item under the policy, with a value of £3,000 recorded.
However, because of the manufacturer issues, Mr J also couldnt obtain the replacement 
bike, so asked AXA to settle his claim through a cash settlement. AXA offered £2,467.19. 
This was based on the voucher value, less a discount of 20% (to allow for the fact that AXA 
could ordinarily obtain discounts when securing a replacement) as well as the £200 excess 
applicable under the terms of Mr Js policy. 
Mr J was unhappy at the cash settlement offer and complained to AXA. He thought it was 
unfair to apply the discount when AXA hadnt been able to obtain a replacement bike. 
AXA considered Mr Js complaint but didnt uphold it. In their final response letter, they said 
a cash settlement wouldnt exceed what they would have paid W to replace Mt Js bike on a 
like for like basis. As Mr Js bike was no longer produced, it couldnt be replaced as new. As 
Mr J couldnt replace the bike either, AXA said that they wouldnt offer the full recommended 
retail price for the bike. AXA concluded they had made a reasonable offer to Mr J.
Mr J complained to this service. He was unhappy that AXA hadnt been able to source a 
replacement bike and the cash settlement offered to him included a 20% discount. He said 
this left him significantly out of pocket as he thought his stolen bike was worth £4,000. As he 
had an ongoing claim, he also felt pressured to renew his policy, despite a significant rise in 
premium. He asked that AXA provide him with an appropriate, like for like replacement bike. 
as the cash settlement was significantly less than the cost of what he considered an 
appropriate replacement.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding AXA hadnt acted unfairly. He 
thought the policy was clear about the £3,000 figure included for Mr Js bike, so AXA werent 
obliged to offer any more. The investigator noted that the voucher offer was higher than the 
£3,000 figure and that AXA acted in accordance with the policy terms when offering a cash 
settlement (as Mr J requested). On Mr Js concern about premium increases and being 
pressured to renew, the investigator concluded that the level of premium was a commercial 
decision for AXA and there was no evidence AXA made Mr J accept a settlement.
Mr J disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. Mr J said it was unfair for AXA to offer vouchers that he couldnt readily use and 
that a cash settlement was the only way to getting a replacement bike. He disagreed with the 
20% reduction from the voucher value, given that AXA couldnt obtain a replacement.  He 
was also unhappy that the insured value of his bike was significantly less than the cost of 
what he thought was a like for like replacement.
In my findings I agreed with the investigators conclusions that Zenith hadnt acted unfairly 
when they applied the £3,000 limit in the policy for Mr Js bike, so werent obliged to offer 
any more. I also agreed that AXA hadnt acted unfairly over premium increased, and that 
they hadnt made Mr J accept a settlement.
However, while I agreed that AXA acted fairly in offering a cash settlement as an alternative 
to vouchers, I disagreed with the investigators conclusion that AXA had acted fairly when 
applying a 20% discount to the cash settlement offered. While I thought it would be for AXA 
to decide whether they would then want to apply the £3,000 limit placed on Mr Js bike as a 
high value personal possession, they would be acting within the terms and conditions of the 
policy were they to do so.
 
I also noted that while Mr J wanted a cash settlement, he told us about a specific model of 
bike that he would be prepared to accept as a replacement if AXA were able to provide it 
within a reasonable timescale. I concluded that this would be a reasonable alternative to a 
cash settlement, should Mr J agree to it. 
Because I partially disagreed with the investigators conclusions and Mr J indicated a 
specific alternative replacement bike as an alternative to a cash settlement, I issued a 
provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My role here is to decide whether AXA has acted fairly towards Mr J.
Mr J was unhappy at being offered vouchers that he couldnt use, as well as the cash 
settlement he was offered including a 20% discount. AXAs position was that as neither they 
nor Mr J could replace the bike either, they wouldnt offer the full recommended retail price 
for the bike when offering a cash settlement as an alternative to vouchers. Ive considered 
both arguments carefully. Ive also looked at what the policy says about claims. Under a 
section headed General Conditions relating to claims there is the following condition:
2 How we will settle your claim
Most insurance companies can get discounts on replacing itemsIt is at our option 
that we will:
pay the cost of repair;
replace the item as new; or
pay the cost of replacing the item as new. owhere we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier 
but we agree to pay a cash settlement, then payment will not exceed 
to discounted replacement price we would normally pay
owhere we cannot repair or replace the item as new through our 
preferred suppliers we will pay the full replacement cost of the item 
with no discount applied:
Looking at these conditions, given the circumstances where the replacement bike couldnt 
be obtained by AXA, then I think that the second part of the third option would apply. Ive 
considered AXAs point that as Mr J couldnt obtain the replacement bike either, then they 
wouldnt pay the full replacement cost. However, that caveat isnt included in the above 
condition, so I dont think its fair or reasonable to apply it.
 
AXA have since said that they would be able to order the replacement bike, but that due to 
Covid causing manufacturing delays, it would take longer to obtain the bike. Ive considered 
this point, but it doesnt change my conclusion. I would expect a replacement to be provided 
within a reasonable timescale and AXA havent given an indication of how long it would take 
for them to obtain a replacement bike. Nor does it change my conclusion that the caveat 
about Mr J not being able to replace the bike isnt included in the condition set out above.
Mr J was also unhappy that the insured value of his bike was less than what he thought was 
the value of a like for like replacement. In considering this point, Ive also noted that the 
policy document, in respect of contents cover, states that:
A single article limit of £1,500 applies for valuables and personal belongings other than the 
items listed below.
As noted earlier, one of the items is Mr Js bike, listed at a value of £3,000. This means that 
AXA wouldnt have to pay out more than this value. I think thats clear. Also, details of the 
items listed would have been provided by Mr J as part of the process of taking out the policy 
(and/or reconfirmed at subsequent renewal). If he thought a higher value was appropriate, 
then he could have asked for the figure to be increased. The policy document includes, 
under a general heading About your policy the following in respect of Valuations:
Please make sure that the values shown on your statement of insurance are sufficient to 
cover todays replacement cost of your valuable items.
While AXAs cash settlement offer was less than this £3,000 figure, thats only because of 
the application of the 20% discount that Ive concluded wasnt fair and reasonable. While Ive 
concluded that AXA shouldnt have applied the 20% discount in arriving at a cash settlement 
offer, they confirmed that they would otherwise have applied the £3,000 limit on the value of 
the bike. In that case, the cash settlement figure would £3,000 less the £200 excess, so 
£2,800. I think that would be in accordance with the policy terms and conditions.
The other aspect of Mr Js complaint concerns the level of premium and that he felt under 
pressure to renew his policy because of the outstanding claim. On the level of premiums for 
his policy, it isnt our role to determine what the level of premium should be for an insurance 
policy. Thats a commercial decision for the insurer, based on their assessment of risk, in the 
specific circumstances of the policyholder. This will include a range of factors. In Mr Js case, 
his policy included buildings and contents cover (and legal expenses).
 
Mr J told us that the premium for his policy increased significantly at his renewal date. While 
I havent seen the detailed underwriting data underpinning the renewal premium, in general 
a key risk factor driving the premium will be the claims history. Its likely that a claim will 
increase the insurers view of risk, which in turn will be reflected in the level of premium. 
Mr J also told us that over time, his overall premium had increased significantly (not just with 
AXA) and that this should have meant an increase in the level of cover under the policy 
(including the insured value of his bike). However, this isnt how insurance policies work  
there isnt a linear correlation between the level of premiums and the insured cover values. 
They are set by the policyholder, as they provide the information on the level of cover 
required and the insured amounts (including for individual, high value items).
On the point about Mr J feeling under pressure to renew because of his outstanding claim, I 
can understand he might have felt reluctant to change insurer in those circumstances. But 
Ive not seen anything to indicate that AXA did anything to put Mr J under pressure.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded that while AXA acted fairly in offering a cash 
settlement as an alternative to vouchers in settling his claim, they didnt act reasonably in 
applying the 20% discount to arrive at the cash settlement offered to Mr J. While it would be 
for AXA to decide whether they would then want to apply the £3,000 limit placed on Mr Js 
bike as a high value personal possession, they would be acting within the terms and 
conditions of the policy were they to do so.
Mr J told us that he wasnt prepared to accept vouchers that he didnt think he would be able 
to use, which is why he wanted a cash settlement. But he has also told us about a specific 
model of bike that he would be prepared to accept as a replacement if AXA were able to 
provide it [within a reasonable timescale].
 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr Js complaint.
I intend to require AXA Insurance UK Plc to either:
pay Mr J a cash settlement based on the specific item limit of £3,000 for his bike; or
provide a replacement bike within a reasonable timescale, if agreed with Mr J.
The policy excess should be applied, as appropriate, to each of these options.
Given the time that has elapsed since Mr J made his claim, should Mr J agree to the cash 
settlement option, AXA Insurance UK Plc should add interest at 8% simple from the date at 
which it would have been likely to have paid their original cash settlement offer to the date 
that Mr J tells us that he accepts our decision (assuming that he does accept it)1
.
Mr J responded to confirm that he would be prepared to accept one of the three specific bike 
models that AXA offered in response to his indicated type of bike. But he also said that he 
would only accept it if it could be provided to him immediately. If it couldnt, then he said that 
he would want the cash settlement option. AXA said that they could offer the specific 
replacement bike that Mr J indicated he would accept, but unfortunately it wouldnt be 
available until March or April 2022 at the earliest, due to global shortages. Given this 
timescale, Mr J said that he wanted a cash settlement.
AXA also responded to say that they had originally offered a direct replacement bike for the 
specific model of bike stolen (as that was no longer produced). AXA felt that, in those 
circumstances, the replacement offered was a like-for-like replacement. Also, in the 
circumstances of a global bike shortage they should be given more time to provide a 
1 If AXA consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
they should tell Mr J how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if He 
asks for one, so he can re-claim the tax figure from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.replacement, as shortage was outside their control. AXA also challenged being asked to pay 
8% interest when, in their view, the claim had been delayed by Mr J (when there was a 
period when their supplier had been trying to contact him, but without success).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld.
When considering responses to my provisional decision from Mr J and AXA, weve explored 
the option of a replacement bike, based on the model Mr J indicated he would be willing to 
accept. I accept AXAs point about their approach of offering a replacement model where the 
original model is no longer produced, and that this would be on a like-for-like basis. This is 
what happened when we explored the options of a replacement bike with AXA and Mr J.
 
I also appreciate AXAs point about the global bike shortage and that this would affect the 
time taken for the replacement bike to be provided. But in the circumstances, given the 
timescales indicated for a replacement bike to be provided, I think its understandable for Mr 
J to opt for a cash settlement. On the point about interest, Ive thought about what AXA have 
said, but given my conclusion that it was unfair to have applied a discount to the cash 
settlement originally offered, I think it is fair to reflect the position that the claim could have 
been settled earlier. So I havent changed my view on this point.
Taking all these points into account, then I havent changed my view to uphold Mr Js 
complaint. But given the responses above, Ive concluded it should be on a cash settlement 
basis, calculated as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Js complaint. I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
pay Mr J a cash settlement based on the specific item limit of £3,000 for his bike.
The policy excess should be applied, as appropriate, to the cash settlement.
Given the time that has elapsed since Mr J made his claim, AXA Insurance UK Plc should 
add interest at 8% simple from the date at which it would have been likely to have paid their 
original cash settlement offer to the date that Mr J tells us that he accepts our decision 
(assuming that he does accept it)2
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman
2 If AXA consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
they should tell Mr J how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if He 
asks for one, so he can re-claim the tax figure from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.