DRN-2560895
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial 
Services (The Post Office) delayed a request to surrender a bond which caused them to 
incur additional interest on credit card balances.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a bond with The Post Office on 4 April 2019. The bond was in joint 
names, but Mr S was not aware of the bond. Mr S requested that the bond was surrendered 
as he had become aware of undisclosed debts incurred by Mrs S. 
The initial request by Mr S was rejected by The Post Office as they required both signatures. 
Mr and Mrs S sent the request with both signatures. The Post Office then requested details 
of the bank account where the money was to be sent but this letter was not received by Mr 
and Mrs S.
Mrs S called The Post Office to ask for an update and it was discovered that the bank 
account request letter was not received and another one was sent out. This was completed 
by Mr and Mrs S and The Post Office received this on 22 May 2019.
The Post Office considered the request for surrender of the bond, but this was declined on 4 
June 2019. Mr and Mrs S sent a letter with further information on 5 June and the request for 
surrender was approved on 12 June and the proceeds paid the next day.
Mr and Mrs S complained that the delay in approving the request had caused them to incur 
interest payments on credit cards and loans that they had. The Post Office investigated their 
complaint and accepted that they could have processed the surrender sooner and offered 
£100 in recognition of this.
Mr and Mrs S did not accept this as it didnt consider the fact that they had incurred interest 
on late payments for credit cards and a loan that they had. The Post Office issued their final 
response letter and didnt offer anything more.
Unhappy with the decision of The Post Office, Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to the 
service and one of our investigators reviewed their complaint. The investigator thought that 
The Post Office had acted unfairly as they could have been clearer in asking for 
documentation and thought that the request could have been processed quicker. The 
investigator upheld the complaint and asked The Post Office to pay £200 in recognition of 
the additional interest that Mr and Mrs S had to pay.
Unhappy with the investigators view, The Post Office has asked for an ombudsman to look 
at the complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that The Post Office could have been clearer in providing what information was 
required and could have processed the request sooner. I will be upholding the complaint.
In their submission to the service, The Post Office has said that they had acted in 
accordance with the terms and conditions and followed their processes in requesting a 
second signature and bank account details. They acknowledged that there were some 
delays in processing Mr and Mrs S request for surrender and the £100 offered was in 
recognition of this.
I have looked at the timeline for this complaint and can see that there was information 
requested from Mr and Mrs S. The initial request for surrender was correctly rejected as only 
Mr S had signed the request and both signatures were required. Although Mr S had not 
known this as he was unaware that the bond was taken out, I cant hold The Post Office 
responsible for this.
It also appears that the letter sent by The Post Office was not received by Mr and Mrs S. I 
think that the telephone call on 17 May 2019 is important as it should have been used by 
The Post Office to give clear instructions to Mr and Mrs S what they needed to do to request 
surrender of their bond.
I think that if The Post Office had said on this call that they required an explanation why they 
wished to cancel the bond, Mr and Mrs S would have been able to provide the information 
required and the request to surrender could have been considered earlier. I dont have any 
evidence that suggests Mr and Mrs S were told on the call that a detailed explanation was 
required.
I acknowledge that this is described in the terms and conditions for the bond, but this was 
during a stressful time for Mr and Mrs S and I think that some consideration should have 
been provided at this time.
The investigator has said in their view that 22 May 2019 was the point that the bond could 
have been surrendered and the account closed. As this was the date that Mr and Mrs S sent 
the bank details to The Post Office, they could have also been able to provide an 
explanation of why they were requesting surrender of the bond had they been aware.
The Post Office processed the request for surrender once Mr and Mrs S provided the 
explanation so I think that the same decision would have been reached earlier and the date 
of 22 May 2019 is reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S have provided information showing that they incurred interest on credit cards 
and a loan during the time that they were waiting on The Post Office considering their 
request. Had The Post Office processed their request sooner, it is likely that these charges 
would not have been applied.
  
Putting things right
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services should pay Mr and Mrs S 
£200 compensation for the late processing of their application to surrender the bond.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman