DRN-3457285
The complaint
X has complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined Xs claim 
for water damage under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Xs property was damaged in May 2021 following ingress of rainwater and this led to staining 
of the ceiling. X made a claim to Lloyds under the policy. Lloyds declined the claim and 
stated that no storm event had occurred (this was an insured event under the policy). It 
considered that the damage was due to wear and tear. It did however apologise and offer 
£100 in compensation to X for delays in dealing with the claim.
X then referred this complaint to our service however it wasnt upheld by our investigator. 
Our investigator noted that on the day before X notified Lloyds of damage, the highest wind 
speed and rainfall recorded at the relevant time was less than that which Xs policy defined 
as a storm. She concluded that the claim couldnt be considered under the peril of storm 
damage and didnt consider that Lloyds were liable under the terms of the policy.
Our investigator stated that the onus was on the customer to show that damage was likely to 
have been caused by an insured peril and said that she hadnt seen any evidence to suggest 
this. As to whether the damage was caused by wear and tear, our investigator was satisfied 
that the available photographs captured the actual condition of the roof and that it wasnt 
unreasonable for Lloyds to have applied the exclusion. 
X remains unhappy with the outcome of this complaint and the matter has been referred to 
me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with X and appreciate that damage from water ingress nearly a year ago will 
have caused on-going stress and inconvenience. The issue for determination however is 
whether Lloyds should fairly and reasonably cover this damage under Xs policy. The 
starting point for consideration is the policy. The policy includes cover for storm, flood or 
escape of water as defined in the policy documents.
In this case, storm damage has been considered as a peril which is possibly relevant. The 
policy booklet defines storm as follows: A period of violent weather defined as: wind 
speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55 mph, equivalent to storm force 10 on the 
internationally recognised Beaufort Scale), or torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per 
hour, snow to a depth of at least one foot (30 cms) in 24 hours or hail of such intensity that it 
causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. None of the other perils listed above 
appear to apply.
In addition, Lloyds has referenced the general exclusions in the policy, which states that 
gradually operating causes arent covered, as follows: Any loss or damage caused by 
anything that happens gradually including wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of light or 
the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot, normal settlement, or any loss due to mildew, rust, 
corrosion or fungus and costs that are caused by the normal use, maintenance and upkeep 
of your buildings and its contents.
Ive carefully considered what the parties have to say about the matter. Lloyds has stated 
that it considered that the weather records for the relevant date didnt meet storm conditions 
highlighted in the policy wording. The report of its representative noted that the slates 
around the roof lights are particularly uneven. we could not see any storm damage. Also, 
We suspect that due to the recent very heavy rain fall water is migrating under the slates 
and around the roof light flashing and entering the property, the damage is recent and not a 
long term problem...
In summary, no storm damage was visible, no slipped slates etc. Possibly a wear and tear 
issue that will only be resolved when the slates around the roof lights are stripped.
Lloyds concluded that the damage to Xs home was caused by wear and tear and was 
therefore specifically excluded from cover due to the policy wording as above. The report of 
Lloyds representative under the heading; confirm cause of damage in detail stated; wear 
and tear issues to roof/roof light flashing.
Lloyds maintained its stance that the photographs clearly showed the roof to be in poor 
condition and didnt consider it needed to carry out further inspections. It stated that if X 
could provide Xs own report detailing why the claim shouldnt have been declined, it could 
look to re-open the claim. Its file notes indicated that X was intending to do this and to send 
a report to Lloyds. It also considered that the policyholder would have to have repairs carried 
out to mitigate any further damage and that X needed to ask Xs contractors to provide full 
photographs to demonstrate this in their report for review.
Turning to what X has to say, if X had referred to the word storm, X said it was meant in the 
vernacular sense not the actual. X said that X wasnt a meteorologist, qualified builder or 
roofer: therefore I suggested the issue COULD BE the Velux window. I cannot categorically 
state or prove this was the case. X had initially said that; The issue we do have is water 
ingress, from an unknown source, possibly a sealing issue with one of the Velux windows 
was mentioned by the assessor, that has caused damage to the interior of the main lounge.
X said that Lloyds representative who visited Xs home accepted that he wasnt a roofing 
expert. X was also unhappy about the report outcome as the roof was re-done 17 years ago 
and was made deliberately uneven. X therefore considered that it was unfair that the claim 
was being declined for this reason. X was strongly of the view that the only person who 
could state categorically that the roof was in disrepair or not: is an individual with the 
relevant knowledge and experience of roofing of the style that is on the house. X said that X 
had: asked on numerous occasions that a roofing expert be provided to make an expert 
opinion of the roof to no avail.
X felt that the representative made his assessment on the strength of a photograph. X also 
said that; the assessor stated at the time of his viewing that a roofer would be sent around 
to the property to assess any potential issues in that regard. No roofer has been received by 
us in this respect.
X stated that the geography of the homes location should be taken into consideration as it 
was at a height of 300 metres. X said that there were distinctly different climatic conditions at 
this height and this latitude. X also felt that the roof; - would not be considered old in roofing longevity terms. X didnt consider that reference to slates around the roof light being 
particularly uneven to be a professional assessment or statement on the condition of the 
roof. The fact that the roof was uneven was deliberate, to remain in keeping as we 
refurbished this part of the house which was previously a barn.
Having considered both sets of submissions, I see that the definition of a storm event under 
the terms and conditions of Xs policy is precise. Unfortunately for X, its the wording of the 
insurance contract which governs the cover that is and isnt in place in given circumstances. 
Lloyds has provided evidence of the weather on dates which preceded the ingress of water 
at Xs home and this evidence falls short of the definition by a significant margin. X hasnt 
supplied any other evidence to counter this, other than an assertion that, due to the height 
and latitude of the home, different weather conditions would have prevailed. Im satisfied 
therefore that, although I see that there had been heavy rain events prior to the ingress of 
water and that these may have had a cumulative impact, these hadnt been exceptional 
storm events as described in the policy. I conclude that X wasnt covered for water ingress 
damage under the storm peril and no other peril has been suggested to cover the event.
As Ive concluded that, on the basis of the evidence currently available, X wasnt covered for 
the damage to his property, its not necessary for me to go on to decide whether an 
exclusion such as wear and tear applies under the policy. I make no finding in this regard. 
In any event, I note that Lloyds representative didnt confirm wear and tear to be the cause. 
He merely said; Possibly a wear and tear issue that will only be resolved when the slates 
around the roof lights are stripped.
Ive looked at other matters as follows. I agree with X that evidence hasnt been supplied as 
to the roofing expertise of Lloyds representatives. I also agree that a roofing expert, 
surveyor or a structural engineer may be able to categorically state whether the roof is in 
disrepair, bearing in mind the roofing style and construction. At present however, there is no 
such categoric evidence. The role of the Ombudsman service is to provide impartial 
complaints resolution and to reach decisions on the facts, based on the available evidence 
as supplied by the parties and as to what is more likely than not to have occurred.
I accept what X says, that the representative who initially visited the property said that a 
roofing contractor would be sent around and that this didnt happen. I consider that this will 
have raised Xs expectations that Lloyds would carry out further detailed on-site inspections 
and this raising of expectations was unfortunate in the circumstances. Nevertheless, on the 
available evidence and photographs and on the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied that 
such further on-site inspections wouldnt have led to a different outcome for Xs claim. I dont 
consider that the ultimate conclusion reached by Lloyds was unfair or unreasonable.
I also accept what X has to say about the age of the roof and that it was re-done 17 years 
ago and that it may have been constructed to be deliberately uneven so that it was in 
keeping with the remainder of the property. Its not for this service to comment upon the 
apparent quality of such work. Im mindful therefore that the report of the Lloyds 
representative notes the roof as being over 51 years old. Despite this error by the Lloyds 
representative, on the basis of the available evidence, Im satisfied that the outcome would 
have remained the same regardless of this error. Again, I dont consider that the ultimate 
conclusion reached by Lloyds was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances.
I note that Lloyds offered £100 compensation and apologised for the length of time it took to 
conclude its response to Xs claim. I note however that it was looking into the report of its 
representative. I agree that this process took longer than would normally be expected. I dont 
however consider that an apology and the compensation offered for such delay was unfair or 
unreasonable in the circumstances.Finally, Ive noted in reaching this decision that Lloyds has stated that it could look to re-
open Xs claim if X could produce a report from Xs own roofing specialist. This means that if 
X could provide persuasive expert evidence to Lloyds that an insured peril under the policy 
was indeed the cause of the damage, it would reconsider this claim. I think thats a fair offer.
I appreciate that X will be disappointed by this decision. X thought that the policy would 
cover damage when rainwater leaked through to the ceilings. Unfortunately for X however, 
water damage isnt covered in every case under such policies and the available cover is 
determined by the terms and conditions of the policy contract. The terms and conditions here 
werent unusual as to what insured perils were covered. Damage caused by weather events, 
short of storm conditions as defined in the policy, was unfortunately not covered. I cant 
therefore say that Lloyds acted in an unfair and unreasonable manner in applying these 
terms and conditions. Ive also concluded that the £100 compensation offered by Lloyds 
fairly and reasonably covered the service delay.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Xs complaint and I dont require Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to do anything else.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman