DRN-2722680
The complaint
Mr K says Quidie Limited, didnt administer his loan properly. He says that in 2017 he 
suffered financial hardship. He tried to contact Quidie to resolve this, but he says he didnt 
receive an adequate response. The outstanding loan was passed to a third-party collection 
agency and this impacted his credit standing. He says that all of this caused him significant 
distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
This complaint is about a loan Quidie provided to Mr K in November 2017. I understand Mr K 
borrowed just over £300. 
Mr K had taken a loan before this, but it was repaid without issue and it doesnt form part of 
this complaint. 
The correspondence I have seen shows that Mr K became unemployed, and he fell into 
financial difficulty, shortly after taking the loan. I can see that Mr K and Quidie entered into 
an arrangement to pay a reduced amount. He made repayments of £50 in January and 
February 2018. 
I can also see that Mr K was in contact with Quidie throughout early 2018 and he made it 
clear what his problems were. He did set up an arrangement to repay the loan using a 
continuous payment authority, but this failed a short time afterwards. Its not clear why this 
was. 
In May 2018 Mr K made his complaint to Quidie. As far as I can see Quidie didnt look into 
his complaint - although I note it investigated a mis-selling complaint. Mr K hasnt made a 
mis-selling complaint. 
Quidie asked a third-party collection agency to recover the loan repayments in late 2019. 
And Mr K has said he felt harassed by this agency. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ks complaint. She said that Quidie hadnt responded 
appropriately when Mr K had informed it of his financial difficulties. And it also hadnt 
responded to his complaint properly. If it had done this, she thought it was likely that Mr K 
would have repaid his loan using the repayment arrangement. 
Because of this she thought that Quidie should write off the outstanding balance of his loan. 
And it should correct his credit file to reflect the position Mr K would be in if he had repaid the 
loan using the repayment arrangement. 
In response Quidie agreed to write off the outstanding loan amount and it also agreed to 
remove the loan from his credit report. I understand it has already done this. 
Mr K agreed with what the adjudicator said in respect of repaying the loan. But he thinks that 
he should receive further compensation for the trouble and upset that Quidies failure to 
adequately help when he was in difficulty caused him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Its not now in dispute that Quidie should have acted differently when Mr K informed it that 
he was in financial difficulty. In order to compensate him it has agreed to write off the 
outstanding balance of his loan. And it has also agreed to remove the loan from his credit 
file. I think this is reasonable. And Mr K agrees with this as far as it goes. So, I wont 
comment further about this. I have included it in my putting things right section below for 
completeness.  
But Mr K feels that he should receive further compensation for the trouble and upset this has 
caused him. Mr K has said that this took a very long time to resolve and he has been unable 
to reduce his mortgage repayments due to the affect this has had on his credit file. 
In order to award further compensation I need to be persuaded that the trouble and upset 
that Mr K was experiencing over this time was predominantly cause by the actions (or 
inactions) of Quidie. But this doesnt seem to be the case here. 
The starting point for Mr Ks problems were that he lost his job and he was unable to make 
the loan repayments due under the contract. And he has outlined a number of other 
problems that he was facing at the time. These issues werent caused by Quidie. 
And whilst Quidie should have acted in a more appropriately in some ways not everything 
that it did was wrong. 
For example, its clear that Mr K was struggling to make his loan repayments. When this is 
the case Quidie had a duty to report this on his credit file. And whilst this may (in reality Ive 
no way of knowing if it did or not) have affected his ability to get a lower mortgage rate, this 
was the right thing to do. 
And it also wasnt unreasonable for Quidie to request that a third party collection agency 
become involved in recovering the loan. Quidie still had the right to try and receive the 
contracted loan repayments. 
So, whilst I agree that Quidie should have responded more appropriately I dont think its 
reasonable to say all of the difficulties Mr K was facing at the time were due to the actions or 
inactions of Quidie. And its only fair for me to award compensation based on what I think 
Quidie should do in respect of only its mistakes. 
I can see that Mr K has been through a difficult time and I hope things have improved for 
him. But whilst I do have sympathy for Mr Ks situation, I dont think further compensation 
should be payable. 
Putting things right
As Quidie has offered to do it should now (if it has not already): Ensure Mr Ks loan is written off (if it needs to liaise with third party collection agency 
to do this it should do so)
Remove the loan from Mr Ks credit file 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman