DRN-2214486
The complaint
Mr A complains Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) have declined payments on 
his credit card and sometimes required the use of his PIN when making contactless 
payments on the account. 
What happened 
Mr A came to us as he was unhappy with the response hed received from Creation. He 
wanted Creation to give him a full, frank and detailed explanation as to what had prevented 
the use of his card when the spending pattern wasnt unusual. He thought their response 
didnt address the issue. Mr A thought Creation were failing customers on transparency and 
customer services and there was a problem with their security systems that ought to be 
addressed for all customers.
Our investigator was unable to find Creation had made a mistake either in relation to the 
transactions or the PIN requests on contactless use. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators findings. He remained of the view that Creation 
hadnt explained the issues. Mr A thought the investigator had accepted Creations security 
without scrutiny. And he was of the view that, as he had no issues with his current credit 
card, or others during his lifetime, that Creation had a problem that should be fixed.  He 
asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is here to resolve individual complaints and to award 
redress where appropriate. So, I cant comment on Mr As concerns insofar as they impact 
other customers.  And I dont perform the role of the industry regulator  thats Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). If he thinks it necessary, Mr A can refer general concerns to 
regulator, I can see the investigator has already provided their details. Its my role to put 
consumers back into the position that they shouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt been 
made. As I find Creation havent made any mistakes here, I cant uphold this complaint and 
reasonably ask them to do anything further. Ill explain why I think that.
Theres no dispute Mr A had difficulties with the transactions here or that hes been asked to 
input his PIN for certain contactless transactions. But Creation have explained why and how 
this came about. And the information theyve sent satisfies me the transaction blocks were 
caused by their security procedures. The investigator has explained the reasons. why a 
particular transaction might trigger security whilst another doesnt, arent shared with 
customers as thats confidential information for the business. 
Mr A thinks a customer should know the reasons for a block or the PIN use, as without that 
knowledge the customer cant be expected to prevent those blocks. But Im afraid I disagree. 
Banks want to protect customers from fraudsters. So, I think, its reasonable for them to keep 
such sensitive information - which could be used by potential fraudsters to manipulate 
security procedures  confidential.
Given that Mr A feels strongly about this, he may want to pursue the matter further through 
other routes. I can see hes already closed his account with Creation. But my decision brings 
to an end what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Creation informally  can do for him. 
Im sorry if this disappoints Mr A.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman