DRN-3996121
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the decision made by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) following a claim for attempted theft under his motorhome insurance policy. 
What happened
On 11 April 2022 Mr C contacted LV to report an attempted theft to his motorhome. Mr C 
explained that the habitation door on his motorhome had been damaged, and required some 
force to close it. Mr C said hed like to take his motorhome to a specialist garage to be 
inspected (garage A). 
Mr Cs motorhome was booked in to be inspected by garage A on 16 May. The reason for 
the delay was because Mr C was having work done to his home and wasnt able to leave it 
unattended before this date. 
On 16 May garage A inspected Mr Cs motorhome. They took images of the door and parts 
Mr C had reported were damaged. Mr C has explained that he was not present during this 
inspection. Garage A provided a summary on their inspection to LV on 19 May. This 
explained:
We cant find any evidence of an attempted break in, screw driver marks, splits in 
rubber seals etc. The top catch on the door has been adjusted slightly and the gas 
door strut was loose, retightened. We also sprayed the rubber door seal with a 
silicone spray as it looked a little dry in areas. We are not able to provide an estimate 
at this time as we are unsure of any/if any repairs are required. 
Mr C called LV after his motorhome had been inspected by garage A. He explained that 
garage A had screwed the habitation door back on without approval from either himself or 
LV. He said theyd completed a botch repair. Mr C explained that hed stopped at services 
on his way home from the inspection and his habitation door had come open. 
LV arranged for one of their engineers (engineer D) to complete an independent inspection. 
This was completed on 27 May. The independent engineer reported:
I did advise that I could find no damage to the door aperture or the habitation door 
itself they mentioned the door does not cat[ch] at the top. I have tested this putting 
pressure on the door the lock held with no patent damage. On close inspection of the 
door rubber apart from a dusty area there is no rips or cracks. In my opinion I was 
unable to find any damage consistent with a break in and found the door and lock 
undamaged and working correctly.
Mr C was unhappy with engineer Ds findings and with the way an LV call handler spoken to 
him. Mr L said hed instruct his own independent engineer and would share these findings 
with LV.
On 31 May engineer B, an engineer instructed by Mr C, inspected Mr Cs motorhome. 
Engineer B reported the following:
As discussed, there are no obvious signs of damage to the door, or door fame of the 
motorhome. The lock barrel is still in a working and non damaged condition. The 
central locking is still functioning on the habitation door.The Gas strut/ door stay does 
feel a little weak in operation.
The door seals all seem intact, with the outer seal in the top left hand corner slightly 
deformed, but still functioning at present. The top right hand side of the door is not 
meeting the door frame correctly. With force (slamming) the door, the door can be 
completely closed. On when opening the door when it has been closed in this way, 
the door handle feels slightly stiffer in operation.
In my opinion, the habitation door appears to be out of shape, causing these two 
issues. The habitation door also hits the under door panel (towards the hinge side) 
when the door is fully opened. (this may have always been this way, and is difficult to 
determine.
Mr C contacted LV to discuss engineer Bs findings. Mr C said hed send in further evidence 
to support his claim, including engineer Bs full findings. On 25 June engineer B provided 
additional comments to LV. LV recorded these as follows:
He could not see any damage, lever marks or scratches consistent with attempted 
break in.
The door rubber although touching when door opened there is no damage and has 
some wear marks only, but again no prising or lever marks.
The door although no kinks marks or any visible damage, on closing the door very 
slowly the lower door lock catch catches on the lower catch first and if left on the 
lower catch the door sits out at the top until you push slightly firmer to locate the top 
catch which brings the door back into the aperture.
Due to this he has come to the conclusion that the door is warped.
He has advised this may be adjustable but also advised he does not do bodywork
On 28 June LV wrote to Mr C in response to his complaint about their decision on his claim, 
and the way it had been handled. LV offered Mr C £50 for the way an LV call handler had 
spoken to him on 27 May. LV also said they wouldnt be offering to settle Mr Cs claim for 
attempted theft as there wasnt enough evidence to support Mr Cs claim. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this response, and so referred his complaint to this service.Our 
investigator found that LV had acted fairly and reasonably in reaching their decision on Mr 
Cs claim, and didnt recommend LV take any steps to put things right. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view. As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has 
been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
Mr C feels strongly that LV have treated him unfairly by rejecting his claim. I thank Mr C for 
taking the time to explain his personal circumstances and everything thats happened since 
the incident in April 2022. I understand it was a difficult time for Mr C. I also appreciate what Mr C has explained about the upkeep and maintenance of his motorhome to very high 
standards. 
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So Ive 
considered the evidence to determine whether LV have acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching their decision on Mr Cs claim.    
When Mr C first discussed his claim, he explained that he was calling to report an attempted 
theft as hed noticed damage to the habitation door of his motorhome. It was agreed that Mr 
C would take his motorhome to garage A (a garage chosen by Mr C) for inspection. Although 
the instruction to garage A was to provide an estimate, garage A didnt do this. Instead they 
found the gas door strut was loose, and this was retightened. Garage A confirmed they 
also sprayed the rubber door seal with a silicone spray. 
Mr C strongly feels that because of these actions, any evidence in support of his attempted 
theft claim had been destroyed. I appreciate Mr Cs disappointment with whats happened. 
But I cant ask LV to pay for the claim, unless I can see that an insured event has taken 
place. 
Because Mr C chose to take his motorhome to garage A, I cant hold LV responsible for the 
actions of garage A when inspecting Mr Cs motorhome. I have considered whether LV did 
enough to make Mr C aware that by choosing a garage of his own choice, LV wouldnt be 
responsible for the actions of this garage. From looking at the case notes, I cant say this 
was made reasonably clear to Mr C. Ive considered what difference it wouldve made to the 
claim if Mr C had been told about the option to use an approved garage which LV would be 
responsible for. 
It is a finely balanced question, and I can only make a determination based on what I think is 
most likely to have happened. And on balance I think even if Mr C had taken his motorhome 
for inspection to a garage approved by LV, that garage wouldve most likely reached the 
same findings as garage A. 
Ive considered that garage A were independently instructed. On balance they would have 
had little to gain from finding that no repairs were required. Ive also considered the findings 
of engineer D (instructed by LV), and engineer B (instructed by Mr C). Mr C feels strongly 
that engineer Bs findings support his claim that there was damage consistent with attempted 
theft. Ive considered these comments, but I dont think engineers Bs findings do this. 
In his email to Mr C on 31 May engineer B concludes his findings by saying In my opinion, 
the habitation door appears to be out of shape, causing these two issues. The habitation 
door also hits the under door panel (towards the hinge side) when the door is fully opened. 
(this may have always been this way, and is difficult to determine.
Given the length of time since the incident on 11 April 2022, and the comments and findings 
of garage A and engineer D, I think any report from engineer B wouldve had to conflict what 
had been previously reported in order to be persuasive. I dont think engineer Bs concluding 
comments suggest this.  
I accept that it was going to be difficult for any engineer to reach a conclusive finding. When 
engineer D inspected Mr Cs motorhome, several weeks had passed since the incident 
(through no fault of Mr C). And garage A had already completed an initial inspection that 
didnt support Mr Cs claim. Engineer D, instructed by LV, also didnt think that there was 
damage present which would support what Mr C had explained about an attempted theft.  Engineer Bs concluding comments to LV on 25 June were that the door is warped. There 
isnt any specific finding of damage that would be consistent with an attempted theft. 
Engineer Bs other comments about what hed inspected, included no obvious signs of 
damage to the door, or door fame of the motorhome and could not see any damage, lever 
marks or scratches consistent with attempted break in. I dont think engineer Bs findings 
support that the damage happened in the way that Mr C has described. 
From review of everything Mr C has said I can see he will be disappointed by my decision. 
But I havent seen enough evidence to ask LV to pay for Mr Cs claim. Because of this I 
wont be asking LV to do anything settlement of Mr Cs claim. 
Mr C has also complained about the level of service provided during a call with an LV call 
handler on 27 May. I agree that the service provided wasnt in line with what wed expect. It 
is evident that the relationship between Mr C and the LV call handler broke down during the 
call, and Mr C was upset with being continually told that his claim would be closed down. 
LV offered Mr C £50 in recognition of the upset caused to him. I think this amount is broadly 
in line with what wed recommend. Ive considered length of the call, and also that the 
outcome was likely to cause Mr C upset and couldve been handled better. 
Putting things right
LV offered Mr C £50 in recognition of the upset caused to him by their poor handling of his 
call with an LV call handler on 27 May 2022. LV is directed to pay £50 to Mr C.
 
My final decision
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited is directed to follow my directions above for 
putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman