DRN-1006686
 
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited has handled and settled 
a claim on her motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Ms L was involved in an accident. She is unhappy with Admirals decision to deal with it on a 
total fault basis and pay the third partys claim. She thinks it should be settled on a 50/50 
split liability basis. She says she wants a proper assessment of the third party's claim.
Admiral said in its final response that once the third party has notified it of their costs it would 
be happy to tell Ms L about them. It considered that Ms L was wholly to blame for the 
accident. Even so it had arranged to refund £300 of her excess as if the claim was 50/50 and 
pay her £25 to cover her call costs.
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Admiral was entitled under the terms of the policy to defend or settle any claim. It had 
tried to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis but as it couldnt do so it felt it would be held 
fully liable if the case went to court. Admiral appears to have done all it can to settle 
the claim on a split liability basis. And given the information it had and a previous 
legal precedent it reached a fair finding by settling the claim as it did. Admiral also 
considered the third partys costs and considered them to be reasonable. 
Admiral has also fairly refunded one half of Ms Ls excess. Her future premiums will 
be affected in similar way even if the claim had been settled on a 50/50 basis. It has 
also settled the claim on a without prejudice basis which allows Ms L to obtain legal 
advice about pursuing the case herself in court. 
Admiral hasnt done anything wrong and she will not be asking it to do any more.
 
Ms L doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. In summary she says she has 
never had a clear indication from Admiral of the third partys costs. She thinks they are 
probably inflated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L has provided detailed evidence and submissions to support her complaint. Ive read 
and considered them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think are the main issues.
Ms L has strong views about what happened in the incident and says the other party was 
partly to blame. But its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. That is something only a court can consider. We can only look into whether Admiral has conducted 
a reasonable investigation into a claim, when making its own decision on liability.
Under the terms of the policy Admiral is entitled to defend and settle a claim as it sees fit. It 
also doesnt need Ms Ls approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a claim or make a 
payment to a third party. It also isnt obliged to take a case to court even if the policy holder 
would like it to so. Its entitled to consider the economics of proceeding to defend the case 
and the potential costs and risks of proceeding to court.
Overall I think Admiral has investigated matters reasonably. It considered the vehicles 
damage and what each party said. It also took account of legal precedent. It tried to get the 
other party to accept a split liability decision and when it couldnt do so, concluded it didnt 
think it could successfully prove Ms L wasnt to blame. It decided to settle the other partys 
claim on a full liability basis.
Ms L may disagree with Admirals interpretation of the evidence and decision to settle the 
claim in favour of the third party but I dont think its failed to comply with the policy terms or 
exercised its discretion unfairly or unreasonably when deciding to settle the case as its 
done. Its also done so on a without prejudice basis which leaves it open to Ms L to take 
court action herself if she wishes to do so.
A fault claim would also be recorded against Ms L whether the settlement was concluded on 
a 50/50 basis, as shed like, or entirely in favour of the third party. And as a result I dont 
think shes been disadvantaged by what Admiral has done.
I understand Ms Ls frustration. But taking everything into account I dont think Admiral has 
done anything wrong. It has also reasonably refunded one half of her excess and paid 
something towards her call costs. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require it to do 
anything more or differently. 
For these reasons I dont see a compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this 
case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman