DRN-3561236
The complaint
Mr B complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIEL) declined his claim following 
his involvement in an accident with a third-party vehicle.  
Other parties have been involved in this complaint, but as AIEL are responsible for it, Ive 
just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mr B was involved in an accident with a third-party vehicle. The accident was reported to his 
broker who referred the matter to the insurer. 
Following a review of the evidence submitted, AIEL said the claim was excluded and there 
was no cover in place. It said Mr B had no cover for commuting and Mr B had told AIEL that 
the accident happened whilst he was driving to work, which it considered to be commuting. 
Mr B disagreed. He said hed made an error in his statement. He was going to work that day, 
but he said he wasnt actually commuting at the time of the accident. He said this accident 
took place as he was travelling back from his girlfriends house to his own house, before he 
went to work. He retracted his statement which said he was driving to work, and he said that 
his brother who reported the accident to the insurer had also made a mistake. However, 
AIEL was unconvinced and continued to decline the claim. 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service. An investigator reviewed the complaint and said 
that based on the evidence we had, AIEL hadnt done anything wrong.
As Mr B didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role here is to see if AIEL applied the terms and conditions of the policy fairly and 
reasonably. 
All the evidence on file would suggest that Mr B wasnt at fault for this accident. 
AIELs declinature of the claim is in no way a reflection of who was to blame for the 
accident.
This policy was specifically taken out for social, domestic and pleasure purposes 
only. Commuting is specifically excluded. 
The crux of the issue is whether Mr B was commuting to work when the accident 
happened or not.
In the first notification call, Mr Bs brother clearly says that Mr B was travelling to 
work. Mr B, in his written account of the accident writes: I was driving to work.
I appreciate that Mr B now says both of these statements were taken out of context. 
He says that he never uses his car to travel to work because he lives so close to his 
place of work. He says he was confused following the accident and due to the 
medication he was taking after it. He says the correct version of events is that he was 
going to work that day, but when he was involved in the accident, he wasnt actually 
driving to work. He says he was driving from his girlfriends house to his own house 
and he was then going to travel to work on foot.
AIEL says that its more likely than not Mr B does usually travel to work on foot. But it 
says that all the evidence would suggest that on this particular day he was actually 
commuting to work.
Its not for me to say that Mr B isnt now telling the truth. In fact, I do believe, having 
mapped out his journey that morning and having mapped out the distance between 
his house and his place of work that he could plausibly walk to work every day. And 
this is supported by his awareness of the exclusion in the policy and the fact he 
specifically wanted commuting excluded from this policy.
However, AIEL were told on three separate occasions, and in particular twice by Mr 
B himself that he was driving to work on that morning. And AIEL has taken this 
information at face value. So, I can see why it has declined the claim, given what it 
says in the policy schedule. Yes, I agree Mr B has since clarified what he says 
actually happened. But AIEL has taken all the statements provided and having 
weighed everything up it has made the decision to exclude the claim based on what it 
feels is more likely than not wouldve happened that morning.
And taking everything into account, I cant say that AIEL has done anything wrong. I 
know this is very frustrating for Mr B, especially as he may have planned to walk to 
work on that particular morning. But AIEL made a decision to decline this claim 
based on information specifically provided to it by Mr B himself. Because of this I 
wont be asking AIEL to do anymore.
I note that in its final response AIEL advised Mr B to pursue the claim directly with the 
third-party insurer. AIEL advised that its claims department would assist by providing 
third-party insurance details and vehicle salvage information. I know Mr Bs solicitor 
initially raised some difficulties they were having with the third-party. But these issues 
would be outside the scope of this specific final decision. Mr B has now confirmed 
that the third-party insurer has accepted liability and has paid the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman