DRN-4192626
The complaint
Mr E complains that he didnt receive his bank card following the opening of his Santander 
UK Plc (Santander) account. He says this resulted in him incurring costs as he had to 
travel to collect money withdrawn for him. 
What happened
On 18 December 2022 Mr E opened an account online with Santander. On 13 January 2023 
Mr E contacted Santander and complained that he hadnt received his bank card. Santander 
confirmed his address and cancelled the original card and pin and re-ordered them. 
Santander apologised for the inconvenience and compensated Mr E £40.
On 19 January Mr E complained to Santander again as he still had received card but not his 
pin number. He says this meant hes had to pay £225 for a taxi to go to a branch to withdraw 
funds or alternatively transfer money to family members who would withdraw money on his 
behalf and he would travel by taxi or bus to collect the cash.
Santander didnt uphold Mr Es complaint as no error had been made by it as the card and 
pin were ordered correctly so it wouldnt refund Mr E the £225 hed spent in travel costs.
By 21 January Mr E had received his card and pin and was using it. Mr E raised a further 
complaint with Santander on 27 January as he was unhappy with the outcome of his initial 
complaint and was now having issues setting up his online account.
Santander explained to Mr E that it looked like he had revoked his online banking as he had 
entered incorrect details and that to resolve this he would need to contact digital banking.
Mr E was dis-satisfied with this and brought their complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Es concerns and reached the conclusion that there 
wasnt enough evidence to say that Santander had made a mistake and that the £40 
compensation paid was a fair way to settle Mr Es complaint. 
Mr E disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr E has experienced and see if Santander has done 
anything wrong or treated them unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr E back 
in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr E is unhappy at the delays hes experienced in receiving his card and pin. But Santander 
say it ordered Mr E a card to the address he had provided when he opened his account.  It is 
noteworthy that around the same time Mr Es card was sent out there were postal strikes 
which may explain the delay. 
So I cant conclude the failure of the card to arrive with Mr E was caused by Santander or 
that Santander understood the card hadnt arrived before Mr E got in touch with Santander 
about this. 
Nevertheless, when Mr E contacted Santander about this it promptly cancelled and 
reordered another card and pin  for security reasons  a few days later and compensated 
Mr E £40 for the inconvenience.
I appreciate Mr E has used alternative means in order to withdraw money when he didnt 
have a bank card and that he would like Santander to refund him the £225 he says he spent 
on travel costs. But I dont think it would be fair to penalise Santander when doesnt appear it 
had made an error and when Santander was notified of the problem Mr E had experienced it 
took action quickly and that Mr E did receive both his card and pin within what I think is a 
reasonable timeframe. 
I note that the branch nearest to Mr E where he could withdraw money was around 0.29 of a 
mile away but I cant see from Mr Es transactions that he ever made a withdrawal from a 
branch of Santander before he raised his complaint. 
The transactions on Mr Es account show that he did a number of cash transfers to two 
individuals and that all but one of the transfers were made before to Mr E contacted 
Santander about his missing card on 13 January. Ive also seen no evidence of the travel 
costs Mr E says he incurred. So as I cant say the losses incurred by Mr E were as a direct 
result of an error on Santanders part, I think the £40 already paid to Mr E is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr E has also complained about the difficulties he has had accessing his online banking. In 
particular he has told us he didnt have access to online banking between 10 February when 
he brought his complaint to this service, and this was still the case in May when he spoke to 
this service again.
I accept Mr E has had some difficulty in using Santanders online banking facility. But I can 
see that he was able to access his online banking between December 2022 and April 2023 
so I cant say the reason Mr E his having trouble accessing his account online is due to an 
error on Santanders part or human error alone. In any case, things dont always go 
smoothly. And not every mistake warrants compensation. Here, were I to find Santander did 
do something wrong, I wouldnt make an award as I dont consider the detriment Mr E 
alleges sufficient to justify one.
So overall and having considered everything I dont think Santander has treated Mr E 
unfairly and it follows that I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman