DRN-3136441
The complaint
Mrs W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund payments she 
made using her HSBC Visa debit card.  She believed these payments were being made to 
Plusoption, which turned out to be a fraudulent binary options company.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Between March and October 2017, Mrs W made several payments to her trading account 
she held with Plusoption.  She used her HSBC Visa credit card to make these payments: 
two of which were to Plusoption and the remaining five to a company I will refer to as 
Company Z in this decision.
Below are the payments in dispute (transaction in red is a credit):
Date Merchant Payment method Amount
28 March 2017 Plusoption Credit Card £200.99 (plus £6.01
transaction fee)
9 June 2017 Company Z Credit Card £3,955.35 (plus 
£118.27 transaction 
fee)
14 June 2017 Company Z Credit Card £1,965.05 (plus 
£58.76 transaction 
fee)
14 June 2017 Plusoption Credit £194.98 (plus £5.83
transaction fee)
16 June 2017 Company Z Credit Card £1,765.08 (plus 
£52.78 transaction 
fee)
26 June 2017 Company Z Credit Card £1,180.70 (plus 
£35.30 transaction 
fee)
19 July 2017 Company Z Credit Card £3,843.40 (plus 
£114.92 transaction 
fee)
26 October 2017 Plusoption Credit Card £7,606.70 (plus 
227.44 transaction 
fee)
Total amount 
debited:£21,130.75
Total amount less 
credits:£20,929.94
In short, Mrs W says she has fallen victim to scam.  She says Plusoption never provided her 
with a proper service and prevented her from withdrawing her funds.  She says they are 
unregulated/unregistered and blacklisted by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mrs S asked HSBC to try to recover her money from Plusoption.  As this did not happen, she 
raised a complaint which she later referred to our service.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  
He issued two assessments.  In his second, he said Mrs W did have a valid claim for 
misrepresentation and breach of contract under section 75 regarding the payments she 
made to Plusoption and Company Z in March, June and July 2017.  Regarding Mrs Ws 
payment to Plusoption in October 2017, the investigator said HSBC should have considered 
the payment unusual because a warning about Plusoption had been placed on the Investor 
Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO).  This 
warning was published on 11 May 2017 (which was more than a month before Mrs Ws 
payment to Plusoption in October 2017).  The investigator argued that despite this, HSBC 
did not intervene, provide a warning, or ask Mrs W any appropriate or probing questions to 
uncover the scam concerned.  He considered that this was a missed opportunity for HSBC 
to intervene.  
Taking all these reasons together, the investigator thought HSBC should refund Mrs W her 
money.  However, he also concluded that Mrs W did share 20% responsibility for what 
happened, so he directed that the refund of all the disputed transactions be reduced 
accordingly.
Mrs W accepted the investigators findings, but HSBC did not.  In the interest of 
conciseness, I will repeat HSBCs response here, which it has helpfully summarised its key 
points in the conclusions section of its submissions:
Overall, we consider that that the adjudicators view is unsupportable. As such, we do not
accept that we should be held responsible for [Mrs Ws] loss for the following reasons:
There is a striking lack of detail as regards the background of this complaint and only 
limited information on key issues has been provided in support, which raises further 
concerns;
The adjudicators assessment by reference to Section 75 is fundamentally flawed 
and is based on the same template wording we have already addressed by the 
HSBC Response (with which the adjudicator has not engaged);
The adjudicator has selectively quoted from the FSA Consultation Paper, and 
misapplies it to this opinion;
The adjudicators findings in respect of our actions in respect of transaction 
monitoring are unrealistic and unfair. In particular, the assertion that we were obliged 
to act on the IOSCO publication and block transactions as a result;The adjudicator seeks to apply retrospective regulation by the back door  that is not 
the purpose of your service. If the regulator intended that we be obliged to take steps 
to block payments to merchants one month after they were the subject of an FCA or 
IOSCO warning they would have made this clear. They did not; and
The adjudicators contributory negligence assessment is fundamentally flawed and 
unsupportable. In particular, despite finding that [Mrs W] ought to have stopped 
trading once her withdrawal request was denied, he still finds us 80% liable for the 
Payments.
The investigator then went back to HSBC to clarify that the 20% refund deduction he 
recommended: only applied to Mrs Ws payment to Plusoption in October 2017, rather than 
all the disputed payments.  HSBC responded maintaining its position about section 75 and 
stating, amongst other things:
If your position is that contributory negligence is only capable of applying to one transaction, 
there should be a greater share of liability than 20% on [Mrs Ws] part for that transaction. 
Your view is that you would have expected [Mrs W] to stop trading when her withdrawal 
request was denied. On the basis that she did not, she should bear full responsibility for the 
transaction following that refusal, or at the very least 50%.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
In this section I will deal with Mrs Ws payments to Plusoption and Company Z made in 
March, June and July 2017 only.  Under the heading Unusual or uncharacteristic activity, I 
will deal with Mrs Ws payment to Plusoption in October 2017.
I have considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs Ws complaint on 
the basis that HSBC is liable to her under section 75.  As a starting point, I think it would be 
helpful if I set out what the section says:
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor 
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise, there must be:1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000.
I will deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn.  
Debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS)
First, there does not seem to be any dispute that a credit card account is a relevant DCS 
agreement under the 1974 Act.  And, I am satisfied here there is nothing that breaks the 
DCS chain  insomuch as there are three parties involved:
1. Mrs W (the debtor);
2. HSBC (the creditor); and
3. Plusoption (the supplier)  as shown on Mrs Ws paperwork and on HSBCs business 
file submissions.
I have noted that Company Z were the payment processors for the purposes of five out of 
the seven payments concerned.  HSBC has not disputed that this breaks the DCS chain, 
presumably because it recognises they were used as the payment processors for Plusoption 
 creating a four-party agreement.  I have further noted that Mrs Ws paperwork shows 
several Plusoption declaration of deposits. 
For these reasons, I am persuaded, on balance, that Company Z were payment processors 
for the purposes of the disputed payments they processed  creating a four-party 
agreement.  
A transaction financed by the agreement
Secondly, the next consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction is not defined in the 1974 Act, but it has generally been given a wide 
interpretation by the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal.  
Here, Mrs W has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use 
those funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when she 
wished. Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  I am 
satisfied there were transactions (which I will call the deposit-transactions) as defined by 
section 75.
Again, to finance, is not defined in the 1974 Act.  An ordinary definition would be to provide 
funds to do something.  In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004], Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed, The phrase to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial 
accommodation in respect of  A credit card issuer clearly provides financial 
accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to her purchases from suppliers, because he is 
given time to pay for her purchase under the terms of the credit card agreement.  
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Mrs W had not used her credit card, she would have 
had to find the cash from her own resources to fund the deposit-transactions and obtain the 
investment account this supposedly entitled her to.  So, it is clear that the deposit-
transactions were financed by the agreement. 
A claim related to that transactionThirdly, a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract must relate to the transaction.  It 
is important to consider what Mrs Ws claim is here. It is evident from her testimony and 
correspondence she provided that she feels she was tricked into depositing the payments 
with Plusoption for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Mrs W to deposit larger amounts. 
Mrs W does not believe that Plusoption was operating legitimately and believes she was 
misled into thinking they were.
This claim, that Mrs W was misled into depositing funds, is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transactions.  The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.  In this case, if Mrs W was told by Plusoption matters that were factually untrue in 
order to trick her into entering into the deposit-transactions, her claim would be for 
misrepresentation.  Or, if the merchant made binding promises to her as part of those 
transactions and went on to breach these that would make her claim one for breach of 
contract.  
Cash price value
Finally, the claim must not relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash 
price of less than £100 or more than £30,000.  Here, the cash price of the deposit-
transaction is the value of that deposit-transaction.  It is both the consideration and subject 
matter of the contract. 
For the reasons set out above, I am satisfied that section 75 does apply to the credit card 
deposit-transactions in this case.
I will therefore go on to consider whether Mrs W has a valid claim for misrepresentation 
and/or breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Mrs W has made a claim of misrepresentation by Plusoption  that claim being 
that they represented to her that they were a legitimate enterprise when this was not the 
case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful, it is necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact, but also that the statement induced Mrs W into entering into an 
agreement. 
A false statement of fact
If I am satisfied that Plusoption were not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise  one 
in which Mrs W could never have received back more money than she deposited  then it 
follows that any statements made by Plusoption to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mrs W could make money from the platform is likely to suffice 
as entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade.  And, I am satisfied that based on Mrs Ws account of events and the nature of the 
situation, Plusoption did claim that Mrs W could have made money from the trading platform.That induced her into entering the agreement
Again, had Mrs W known that the trading platform was essentially a scam, designed to 
relieve investors of their money, rather than a legitimate service  there is really little 
question, to my mind, of her not investing with Plusoption.  Consequently, should I be 
satisfied that Plusoption is not operating a legitimate enterprise, then inducement will also be 
demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail, I should mention that I have found Mrs Ws account of 
events both detailed and compelling.  But more than this, it is corroborated not just by other 
complaints of this nature, but specific complaints against Plusoption.  Because of this Im 
minded to find her account to be truthful.
So, turning to Mrs Ws account.  I note she says Plusoption offered to teach and guide her 
about the financial market, which she believed and paid them money to invest.  I also note 
she says Plusoption never allowed her to withdraw her money from the platform nor did she 
receive a proper service from them  despite signing several declarations of deposits for the 
payments concerned.  I have had sight of several emails Mrs W sent to Plusoption in August 
and September 2017 requesting withdrawal of her funds; requests which do not appear to 
have been actioned by Plusoption.
There is a body of external information available through various regulators, law 
enforcement agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that 
repeat the tactics used by Plusoption.  This does lead me to seriously question whether any 
actual trades were being placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact 
Plusoption offered little more than a video game or simulation.
There is further evidence in the form of a warning on the FCAs website dated 12 March 
2018.  Although this warning was published post the payments concerned, it nonetheless 
suggests Plusoption may not have been acting legitimately:
We believe this firm may be providing financial services or products in the UK without our 
authorisation. Find out why you should be wary of dealing with this unauthorised firm and 
how to protect yourself.
I have also noted further regulator warnings about Plusoption placed on the IOSCOs 
Investor Alerts Portal on 11 May 2017 (published by the Australian Securities and 
Investments Commission).
Plusoption no longer appear to be operating and has not operated for some time. There are 
also several online reviews from victims that share very similar experiences to that of Mrs 
Ws.
In summary
Taking all the above together, I do not think it is likely Plusoption were operating a legitimate 
enterprise.  So, I am persuaded they made misrepresentations to Mrs W.  That is, that they 
were running a genuine enterprise through which she could never have got back more than 
her deposits from the platform.  I am also satisfied that if Mrs W had known this, she would 
not have deposited any money, so she was induced into the contract on the basis of these 
misrepresentations.Breach of contract
Here, Mrs W has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use 
those funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when she 
wished.  Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  I am 
satisfied there was a transaction (the deposit-transaction) as defined by section 75.
It follows, I think, that Plusoption had contractual obligations:
a) To enable Mrs W to use the funds from her deposits on an investment platform; and 
b) To enable Mrs W to withdraw the funds deposited as and when she wished.
Mrs W was not able to use the funds from her deposits on the investment platform, nor was 
she able to withdraw them.  So, I am satisfied that Plusoption breached the above 
contractual obligations.
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Mrs Ws loss amounts to the full 
amount of each of her deposits.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity 
Under this section, I will deal with Mrs Ws £7,606.70 (plus a £227.44 transaction fee) 
payment to Plusoption in October 2017.
HSBC is aware of our general position on PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud.  We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations.  It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail. 
It is common ground that the disputed payment was authorised by Mrs W for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations (the Regulations), in force at the time.  This is 
because they were made by Mrs W using the legitimate security credentials provided 
to them by HSBC. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mrs W 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam.  So, although she did not intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of her bank 
account, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams; 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things).  This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of alerts about traders published by 
the FCA and/or IOSCO.  As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated  in 
its consultation paper entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting 
perpetrators and protecting victims  that it was good industry practice for firms to build up 
an updated watch-list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share 
timely and detailed intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, 
etc.  Whilst the regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to 
expect an international bank to update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff 
within, say, one month of an alert being posted by the FCA and/or IOSCO.  In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bells  and lead to the payment 
being paused  pending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer. 
In Mrs Ws case, there was a warning about Plusoption placed on the IOSCOs Investor 
Alerts Portal on 11 May 2017  this warning was published more than a month before Mrs 
Ws payment to Plusoption in October 2017.  It is not unreasonable to expect a bank the 
size of HSBC that regularly updates its internal alerts to include information about payees 
who had tried to carry out regulated activities without permission.  I accept that the warning 
did not specifically relate to binary-options trading; and it did not necessarily follow from the 
nature of the warning in isolation that these were fraudsters.  Given the timing of the alert 
relative to the first payment, I think HSBC ought to have automatically blocked it; as it had a 
fair chance to update and communicate its watch-list between the warning being published 
and the payment being made.  The bank had constructive if not actual notice that the payee 
might not be a legitimate merchant  therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have 
properly questioned Mrs W before processing all the payments in order to satisfy itself that 
all was well. 
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mrs W and 
asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that they would have 
explained what they were doing.  In such circumstances, whilst the bank had no duty to 
protect them from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have invited them to 
check whether the payee was registered with the UKs Gambling Commission.  It could 
have also explained its own customer experiences with merchants like Plusoption in that 
customers would often be prevented from withdrawing available balances.  After all, at that 
time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank ought to have known even 
if a lay consumer ought no  about the very high risks associated with binary options 
including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the 
European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the FCAs consultation 
paper of December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning 
that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally, and so forth). 
There is no evidence that HSBC provided Mrs W with any meaningful warnings or gave 
them other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments they were making.  It was a 
missed opportunity to intervene.
Causation 
 
If HSBC had asked Mrs W what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, 
it is likely they would have fully explained what they were doing and that everything had 
been done over the phone and online with the merchant.  HSBC did not need to know for 
certain whether Mrs W was dealing with a fraudulent binary options trader or investing in a 
legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are 
enough to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good 
practice.  I consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that HSBC ought 
reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial professionals about the risks associated with unregulated, overseas binary 
options.  
 
If HSBC had given a warning, I believe that Mrs W would have paused and looked more 
closely into Plusoption before proceeding.  She had previously experienced problems with 
withdrawal requests being processed, so I think a warning would have likely prompted her 
to have made further enquiries into binary-options scams and whether or not Plusoption 
regulated in the United Kingdom or abroad. She could have discovered they were not and 
the various regulatory warnings about the risk of binary-options/forex scams (see above).  
In other words, I am satisfied that a warning from her trusted bank would probably have 
exposed Plusoptions false pretences, causing them to stop trading and preventing the 
losses. 
 
As I think the HSBC ought to have blocked all of the transactions, I dont need to conclude 
whether or not the bank did enough to attempt or pursue chargeback claims. 
 
Contributory negligence 
 
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000).  I do not place too much weight on general but arcane information 
in the public domain for reasons previously alluded to about the information imbalance 
between financial professionals and ordinary consumers.  
I can see there is a significant gap between the last two disputed payments in this case: 
July and October 2017.  Based on the evidence before me, I can see that Mrs W contacted 
Plusoption in August and September 2017 asking  on several occasions  to withdraw her 
funds: to no avail.  Despite this, Mrs W made a further (final) payment to Plusoption for 
£7,606.70 (plus a £227.44 transaction fee).  To my mind, as Mrs Ws withdrawal requests 
were not being met  she should have realised that something was not quite right, rather 
than make a further significant payment.
For these reasons, I do think that Mrs W should bear some responsibility for what happened.  
The investigator recommended 20%.  HSBC argues Mrs W should bear full responsibility for 
the transaction concerned, or at the very least 50%.
Having considered this carefully, I think it would be fair to reduce compensation by 20% for 
the payment Mrs W made in October 2017 only.
Why I have not considered the October 2017 payment under section 75
I am not of the view that Mrs Ws payment in October 2017 attracts rights under section 75.  
I say this because Mrs W acknowledged that she was unable to withdraw funds from her 
trading platform prior to the October 2017 payment.  Moreover, she has not given an 
explanation as to what was promised in exchange for the payment.  For these reasons, I am 
not persuaded a valid claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract has been 
established.  It follows that section 75 would not apply to the October 2017 payment.
Putting things right
Ive established two grounds Mrs W could have recovered her deposit-transactions:
Misrepresentation: I am satisfied Mrs W has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that Plusoption made a series of misrepresentations, namely that it was operating a legitimate enterprise and that Mrs W could access her money freely and 
earn a profit from her deposit-transactions. 
Breach of contract: I am satisfied Mrs W also has a claim for breach of contract as 
Plusoption breached their verbal promises to Mrs W.  Namely, that she could use the 
funds from her deposits on an investment platform, and withdraw funds deposited as 
and when she wished.  This provides another basis for recovery. 
As a claim for misrepresentation gives the highest sum, HSBC should put Mrs W back into 
the position she would have been had the deposit-transactions (totalling £13,296.61) not 
been entered into.  So, she should receive refunds of these amounts, less any amounts 
credited to her by Plusoption. 
Further, Mrs W should be refunded the payment she made to Plusoption in October 2017.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I therefore 
direct HSBC UK Bank plc to:
Refund to Mrs W the deposit-transactions  including applicable transaction fees  
less any credits (that would mean £13,296.61);
Refund to Mrs W the payment  including applicable transaction fee  she made to 
Plusoption in October 2017 (totalling £7,834.14)  but subject to a 20% deduction for 
contributory negligence;
Pay 8% interest on the above amounts from the date they were debited from Mrs Ws 
account until the date of settlement; and
If HSBC UK Bank plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Mrs W with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman