DRN-3887864
The complaint
Ms H and Mr W are unhappy with the amount Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
paid after they made a claim on their wedding insurance policy.
What happened
Ms H and Mr W were due to get married in September 2020 and took out wedding insurance
underwritten by RSA. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic they had to rearrange their
wedding and it took place in July 2021. Ms H and Mr W then pursued a claim on their
wedding insurance for costs relating to the initial cancellation and additional costs they said
had been incurred as a result of the rearrangement.
RSA agreed there was cover for the claim they were making. But it said the policy only
provided cover for rearranging the wedding and reception to a similar standard to the
amount originally budgeted. In this case the overall budget for the actual wedding was less
than the budgeted cost because a reduction in numbers meant the catering cost was lower.
So although the cost per head had increased the overall amount payable had reduced. And
offsetting that saving against the other claimed rearrangement costs meant the amount
payable under the policy was around £247 (net of the policy excess).
However, RSA accepted failings in customer service when dealing with the complaint for
which it agreed to pay £400. And, as a gesture of goodwill, it agreed to pay the claimed
amount for the cost per head increase in catering of around £290. In total it paid Ms H and
Mr W around £945 (including a £7 overpayment in error).
Our investigator thought RSA acted fairly in calculating whether there had been an increase
in catering costs. But he didnt agree it was fair of RSA to take that reduction into account
when considering the other rearrangement costs (for example in relation to photography and
invitations). He thought RSA should pay the difference between the remaining amounts
claimed for and the amount it had actually paid for the claim.
RSA didnt agree. It said the policy covered the actual financial loss a policyholder had
suffered. Where a wedding was rearranged this could only be done by comparing their
revised outlay with the original budget.
Ms H and Mr W didnt agree either. They said the original quote for catering overstated the
numbers who would be attending as they were advised by the caterers to do that and
confirm final numbers in the week prior to the wedding. So they didnt agree that quote
represented their catering budget. 
And they didnt agree it was right to offset the catering costs against the other elements of 
their claim when the policy wording treated the different elements separately. They said if 
that was the case there were other costs that had increased which they could have claimed 
for.
I reached a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Ms H and Mr Ws policy. In relation to
rearrangement costs the policy says
In the event of cancellation or curtailment of the wedding, wedding reception or wedding
services for reasons shown in Part 1 above, we will pay up to the amount shown on your
Schedule of cover to reimburse you for additional costs paid in rearranging the wedding
and/or wedding reception and/or wedding services to a similar standard to the
amount originally budgeted.
RSA has accepted the reasons for cancellation fall within those set out in the policy. The
issue is whether the costs Ms H and Mr W claimed for are covered by their policy. I think the
first question is whether RSA has acted in line with the policy terms in offsetting the total
budgeted cost of the original wedding against the total cost of the rescheduled wedding.
Ms H and Mr W say the policy wording differentiates between the different elements of a
wedding (the wedding itself, the reception and the services provided). So, in calculating
whether additional costs have been incurred, its not right to look at the overall cost as RSA
has done; the claim should be considered against those different elements. Applying that
approach in line with the definitions in the policy means catering would be part of the
wedding reception whereas the other elements of their claim would be separately considered
as wedding services.
But I dont think that argument takes into account the policy definition of additional costs
which is the difference between the original cost of the wedding/wedding reception services
and the rearranged wedding/wedding reception services to provide an equivalent service to
that originally booked. I think its reasonable to interpret that term as meaning its the total
cost of the wedding (the event itself, the reception and related services) that needs to be
considered when deciding whether additional costs have been incurred and if the
overall costs of rearranging a wedding have resulted in a loss to the policyholder. So I think
RSA acted correctly in taking that approach in this case.
Ms H and Mr W say RSA acted unfairly when calculating the budget for their original
wedding as the catering quote they received wasnt based on final numbers. They say that
they were asked to by the caterers to over-estimate the attendees and these would always
have reduced by the time of the wedding. And they say the policy doesnt define the word
budget.
I appreciate Ms H and Mr W anticipated numbers would reduce by the time the wedding took
place. But I dont think thats the issue. The question is whether the quote from the caterers
could reasonably be said to represent their available budget. I agree that budget isnt
defined in the policy but a dictionary definition is the amount of money you have available to
spend which I think represents a common understanding of this word.
The quote from their caterers was based around 120 attendees (and included meals for
eight children). And the invitations Ms H and Mr W ordered roughly correspond with those
anticipated numbers. That suggests to me the cost quoted by the caterers does represent
the amount Ms H and Mr W were prepared to pay for catering. I recognise that number might
have changed as the wedding approached and so the actual sum paid could have been
lower. But I dont think RSA acted unreasonably in concluding that this nevertheless
represented their catering budget.
Ive gone on to think about whether, on that basis, RSA has correctly calculated the amounts
due to Ms H and Mr W. Their claim included costs of £290 for catering as the cost per head
had increased as a result of inflation. However, I think RSA has acted correctly in concluding
that isnt an increase covered by the policy because the overall cost for catering is lowerthan the amount Ms H and Mr W budgeted for this.
The remaining elements in dispute relate to photography, invitations and a harpist. Some of
those costs (for a new photographer and new invitations) relate to the rescheduled wedding.
And I can see those increased amounts are included in the calculation of Ms H and Mr Ws
actual wedding expenditure. Based on the invoices they provided thats been calculated by
RSA at around £13,900. The original wedding budget as calculated by RSA (and again
based on the information Ms H and Mr W provided) was around £14,800. So even with the
costs for the photographer and invitations included I dont think theyve incurred additional
costs (as defined by the policy) for their rearranged wedding.
But there are other costs which relate to the original wedding (a lost deposit to the
photographer who was due to attend, the invitations and money not refunded by the harpist).
And their policy also covers costs relating to cancellation and says it will pay irrecoverable
expenses paid by you in respect of ceremonial attire and wedding services booked but not
used as a direct result of the unavoidable cancellation or curtailment of the wedding or
wedding reception. It doesnt appear to be in dispute that the amounts Ms H and Mr W paid
for their original wedding were irrecoverable so I think RSA should have considered these
under this section of their policy.
Those costs total £868.36 (£375 deposit to the photographer, £170.80 that wasnt refunded
by the harpist and £322.56 for the invitations). Subtracting the policy excess means Ms H
and Mr W should have been paid £818.36. RSA has paid them £545 in relation to their claim
plus £400 to reflect the distress and inconvenience they were caused by failings in the
handling of it.
I think the payment for distress and inconvenience is fair but I dont think RSA has paid all it
should under the terms of their policy. So it will need to pay a further £273.36 (thats £818.36
less the £545 already paid). It will also need to pay interest at 8% simple on that amount
from the date the payment should have been made (3 January 2022) until the date it is.
Ms H and Mr W have referred to further costs they incurred in relation to the rescheduled
wedding which they havent yet included in their claim. But if RSA isnt aware of these costs
then it cant have had the opportunity to take them into account. So if Ms H and Mr W want it
to do so theyll need to share this information with it so it that can be done
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms H and Mr W felt they had valid reasons for their original complaint but agreed with the 
additional point Id made and said they were happy to proceed on that basis. RSA didnt 
respond.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H and Mr W are happy to proceed on the basis I outlined in my provisional decision and 
RSA hasnt responded. So I dont have any reason to change the findings I previously set 
out. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. RSA will need to pay Ms H and Mr W £273.36 plus
interest at 8% on that amount from the date the payment should have been made (3 January 2022) until the date it actually is.
If RSA considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that
interest, it should tell Ms H and Mr W. It should also give them a tax deduction certificate if
they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman