DRN-4367500
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about a delay in receiving payment for the legal fees he incurred from 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) under the terms of their legal expenses 
insurance policy.
All references in this decision to RSA include their claims handlers because RSA are 
responsible for the actions complained of.
What happened
Mr H made a claim on his RSA legal expenses insurance policy for cover to deal with a 
dispute with his employer. RSA appointed a panel firm to consider the claim, but Mr H 
decided to instruct his own Solicitors, following which his employer agreed to settle his claim. 
RSA agreed to pay his legal costs incurred in respect of this, but it took just over 6 weeks for 
payment to be made. Mr H complained. In response RSA offered him £100 in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience the delay caused.
Mr H is unhappy with the time it took RSA to make payment as well as the explanations he 
received about the delays. He wants RSA to pay him around £500 in compensation for this. 
He says the time he spent waiting for reimbursement caused him cash flow challenges as 
well as distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She said 
£100 was adequate compensation and in line with the level wed award in these sorts of 
circumstances. Mr H doesnt agree. So, the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
In this case RSA have accepted that they did something wrong as there was an 
unnecessary delay in making payment to Mr H. Because of this I dont need to determine the 
issues Mr H has asked me to consider- namely when RSAs claims handlers approved his 
claim and when they put in his request for payment. The issue I need to decide is the impact 
their actions had on Mr H and whether the amount RSA have offered is adequate to 
compensate him for this.
Mr H has talked about the delay in receiving payment being the cause of cash flow 
challenges as well as stress and inconvenience. But I havent seen anything to suggest that 
he had to pay interest on borrowings or lost out financially as a result of the delay in 
receiving payment. And I would expect it to take a few weeks at least for this kind of 
payment to be made by RSA. So, the delay in receiving payment to my mind amounts to no 
more than about three or four weeks. 
I can see that Mr H chased RSA for payment several times and entered into detailed 
correspondence to understand the reasons for it. I realise he wasnt satisfied with the 
explanations given and that he found this frustrating, and I can understand that. But in the 
circumstances, I think RSAs offer of £100 adequately compensates him for this. Thats 
because this amount is in line with what we would usually award in similar circumstances 
and compensates him for both the stress and inconvenience he suffered as well as the time 
he had to wait to receive payment.  
If Mr H hasnt already accepted RSAs offer of £100 and still wants to, he should contact 
them directly. 
I realise my decision will be disappointing for Mr H, but I hope Ive explained why I wont be 
upholding his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold my complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman