DRN-2726979
The complaint
Mrs W complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) for its decision to decline her claim
for water damage to her rental property. She wants AXA to pay a contribution to the costs of
repairs.
What happened
Mrs W owns a property based some distance away from her, which she lets out.
Around October 2019, Mrs W became aware, from her tenant, that water was penetrating
into the living room.
Mrs W contacted contractors who were local to the property and arranged for repairs to be
undertaken.
These repairs were completed around November 2019 and Mrs W was provided with an
invoice for the repairs. Mrs W settled the invoice.
On 20 January 2020, Mrs W submitted a claim to AXA, via her insurance broker.
AXA requested copy documents from Mrs W, including evidence showing what the damage
had been.
Mrs W provided copies of the invoices to AXA by 30 January 2020. Photographs of the
damage were not available as the works had already been carried out but within the
documents provided was a report from the contractor as to what work was required, giving a
quote price of £1910.00.
The report detailed the cause of damp as: At the time of inspection the Evidence obtained
suggest Rising Damp, due to a failed D.P.C and salt contamination.
AXA wrote to Mrs W on 24 February 2020, declining her claim. It noted that her policy
excluded damage caused by, or resulting from, wear and tear, dampness and damage to
property caused by or consisting of gradual deterioration. AXA relied upon the wording used
by Mrs Ws contractor to reach this decision.
Mrs W was not happy with this decision and complained. She felt that it was unreasonable
that AXA would not make some contribution to the costs, which she felt ought to be covered.
AXA acknowledged Mrs Ws complaint on 25 February 2020.
AXA sent Mrs W a holding letter on 20 April 2020, giving her information about how to refer
her complaint to us, and indicating that she would receive a response to her complaint by 17
June 2020.
Mrs W contacted us.
AXA then sent a response to Mrs W on 2 June 2020. This did not uphold her complaint. AXA
did not acknowledge the delays in their handling of the claim or complaint and did not offer
any apology.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and has set out his view to the parties.
This was that AXA was reasonable to decline the claim, as the evidence available showed
that the cause of the damage was a gradually operating cause and was excluded from
cover. He therefore did not think that AXA ought to do anything further.
Mrs W did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I set out my preliminary view in a provisional decision, issued in February 2021. In that, I 
explained that I agreed with the investigators conclusion that it was reasonable of AXA to 
decline the claim, as the evidence showed that the cause of the damage was not an insured 
peril. I did, however, think that AXA had delayed in responding to Mrs Ws claim and her 
subsequent complaint, and I thought that AXA ought to pay £50 to Mrs W to reflect the 
issues in its service to her. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties, and they have been invited to 
submit comments and any further evidence they wish to. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has not responded to my provisional decision, but had previously commented that it did 
not think that the delay affected Mrs Ws distress as her complaint to us was about the 
decision to decline, rather than the time taken for AXA to respond. 
Mrs W has responded to my provisional decision, reiterating that she does not understand 
why she is not entitled to some recompense after paying her premiums consistently. She 
has indicated that she feels that insurance is a waste of time and that insurers will always 
use a loophole to avoid paying.
I appreciate why Mrs W feels aggrieved, but as previously set out, insurance is not the same 
as a maintenance contract. Property insurance provides protection in the event of particular 
events happening, such as damage caused by a storm or flood, or accidental damage to the 
building or contents.  In this case, the insurance contract made clear that damage which 
happens gradually (such as damp) was not insured, and the evidence from the contractor is 
that the works he undertook were to treat and repair rising damp. In those circumstances, I 
cannot say it was unreasonable of AXA to rely on the exclusion and not cover the claim. 
In my provisional decision I addressed AXAs comments that Mrs W did not comment on the 
delay in her complaint. I think that Mrs W found her entire customer service experience from 
AXA to be upsetting, and this included the time taken for responses to her claim and 
complaint. I agree that the majority of Mrs Ws upset is due to the decision to decline the 
claim, and so have only made a small award to reflect the distress which was avoidable in 
the circumstances. I think this award is in line with other awards we would make in similar 
circumstances.
No further evidence or arguments have been provided to change my view from that set out 
in my provisional decision, and so I adopt my provisional decision reasoning, as 
supplemented by the above, as my final decision. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint. 
I direct AXA Insurance Limited to pay Mrs W £50 compensation to reflect its failings in 
service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman