The complaint
Mrs R says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
alongside a further mortgage advance.
What happened
Mrs R took out a PPI policy alongside a further mortgage advance in 1991. She didn't take 
PPI when she took out the original mortgage in 1990. Mrs R paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It would've covered her if she was off work 
sick or lost her job. It would've paid out for up to 24 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out the general way we deal with complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
I'm not upholding Mrs R's complaint. I'll explain why.
This sale took place nearly 30 years ago. Mrs R said she didn't know she had PPI and was 
not told it was optional. Bradford & Bingley still has Mrs R's further advance application. She 
applied for £6,000 additional loan and a 'YES' was placed in the box selecting PPI. Mrs R 
signed the application form. The paperwork made it clear that PPI wasn't compulsory and I 
think Mrs R would've understood that she didn't need to take PPI to get the loan as she 
didn't take PPI with the original mortgage a year before. Given that Mrs R was signing an 
important legal document, I think it was reasonable to expect her to read it before signing it. I 
dont doubt that Mrs R is being honest in her recollection of this. But I also need to be 
conscious that memories can, and do, fade over time, that this sale was particularly long 
ago, and that the sale of insurance is not often memorable. Also, the paperwork indicates 
that Mrs R said she wanted PPI. So, overall, I think it more likely that PPI was added 
because Mrs R said she wanted it, having been told she didn't have to take it.
Based on what I've seen, I think it unlikely that Bradford & Bingley recommended the PPI to 
Mrs R. That means it didn't have to consider whether it was suitable for her, but it did need 
to give her enough clear and fair information so that she could make an informed choice that 
it was right for her and she wanted to buy it.
DRN-1705243Based on what I've seen, and what Mrs R has said, I can't see that the PPI was 
inappropriate for her, in her circumstances. It would've covered her for longer than her sick 
pay from work and paid out on top of that. She said she would've got 6 months' worth of sick 
pay from her employer at full pay and three months' worth at half. The policy would've paid 
out for up to 24 months per successful claim. She didn't mention having any savings. So, I 
think PPI could've provided her with a useful benefit to safeguard her mortgage repayments 
of £700 per month, at a premium cost of around £35 per month. And it would've also  
covered her if she lost her job involuntarily. 
I can't see that Mrs R was affected by the main limitations or policy exclusions, so I don't 
think having better information about these things would've caused her not to take out the 
policy, as she could've benefited from everything the policy offered.
The policy appeared affordable and Mrs R was eligible to take it out. Mrs R paid a monthly 
amount for the policy which she could've cancelled at any time without losing out financially.
Its possible that the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mrs R could've been clearer but 
overall I can't see that she has lost out because of anything that Bradford & Bingley could've 
done better.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs R's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman