DRN-1936011
The complaint
Mr N complains that he was mis-sold several packaged bank accounts by Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds). 
What happened
Mr N took out a fee free account with Lloyds in March 1999. 
He then took out a series of package bank accounts which incurred monthly fees.
He took out a Select Added Value Account (SAVA) at some time before September 2001.
Mr N upgraded to a Select Plus Added Value Account (SPAVA) in December 2003, to a 
Gold Added Value Account (GAVA) in February 2004 and to a Gold Plus Added Value 
Account (GPAVA) in August 2005.
He took out a Platinum Added Value Account (PLAVA) around March 2006 and upgraded to 
a Platinum Plus Added Value Account (PLPAVA) in about May 2006.
He took out a Premier Added Value Account (PRAVA) in around Jan 2008 and upgraded to 
a Premier Plus Added Value Account (PRPAVA) in about February 2008.
Mr N says Lloyds recommended he take out the SAVA, and he opened it only because 
Lloyds told him it would improve his credit rating.  He says the SAVA and all the subsequent 
packaged bank accounts he paid for werent right for him.
Lloyds has accepted that it mis-sold the PLAVA and the PLPAVA and has paid Mr N 
redress. But it says it didnt mis-sell the other accounts.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Ns complaint and decided that Lloyds response was fair 
and reasonable. Mr N disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ns complaint.
As Lloyds has paid redress for the PLAVA and PLPAVA accounts, I dont need to look into 
those.
The first thing Ill consider is whether Mr N had a choice when he took out each of the other 
accounts.
Mr N originally opened a fee free account with Lloyds in 1999 and Lloyds has a record that 
he was offered a SAVA but declined it at the time. So, in my view he was aware that fee free 
accounts were available when he took out the SAVA a little while later.
Mr N says that he was pressured into taking out the SAVA because he says he was told it 
would improve his credit rating and help him to get loans, a mortgage and an overdraft. I can 
understand that he may have been told that running an orderly bank account over a period 
of time would help his credit score. But he didnt make immediate substantial use of any form 
of credit following the sale, and he did use one of the major benefits of the account which 
was the car breakdown service, several times. So, I dont think I can say its more likely than 
not that the only reason he took the account was to improve his credit rating as I would need 
to in order to uphold his complaint on this point.
Mr N took out all the remaining upgrades, for the SPAVA, GAVA, GPAVA, PRAVA and 
PRPAVA on-line, with no intervention from Lloyds staff. So again, I cant say that I have any 
evidence he was taking out those accounts only to improve his credit rating based on 
something Lloyds had said to him.
So, in my view Mr N knew he had a choice whether to take out the SAVA and all the other 
upgrades and he chose to do so.
Next, Ill consider what Lloyds should have done in these sales or upgrades.
Lloyds says that the on-line sales were non-advised, by which it means that it didnt 
recommend the products to Mr N personally or advise him to take them. I would normally 
consider on-line sales to be non-advised and I havent seen any evidence that I should do any 
differently here. So, for all the on-line sales Lloyds did not have to ensure that the products 
were suitable for Mr N, but it did have to provide Mr N with good enough information about 
them so he could make an informed decision about whether to have them or not.
And I think it did. I say this because Lloyds was trying to sell the accounts to Mr N so I think it 
would have provided lots of information on-line about them. Ive seen examples of the internet 
screens that Mr N would most likely have seen, and I think its more likely than not that he 
would have understood the cost and benefits of the products. Mr N used the benefits of the 
accounts on multiple occasions, so this indicates to me he had a good awareness of what he 
was buying. And he could have closed the accounts at any time but didnt. There was nothing 
about his circumstances that would have stopped him using the benefits, and it was for him to 
arrange to do so if he wished.
So, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds provided Mr N with enough information to 
make an informed choice about whether to take out the products he bought on-line, and Mr 
N chose to take them out.  And there wasnt anything that Lloyds didnt tell him that wouldve 
caused him not to do so. 
Mr N says that Lloyds did recommend the original SAVA to him, and neither party are sure 
how the sale was made. Ill assume that Lloyds did recommend the SAVA to Mr N as it is to 
his advantage and doesnt affect the outcome of my decision.
So, Lloyds was required to ensure that the SAVA was suitable for Mr N as well as providing 
him with enough information to make his choice. At the time the SAVA benefits included car 
breakdown cover, payment card protection, extended warranty, 90 day purchase protection 
and an interest free overdraft up to £50. The cost was £4 a month.
Lloyds has provided evidence that Mr N used the car breakdown service on multiple 
occasions, and Ive seen nothing about his circumstances that would have stopped him using the other benefits available, so I think its more likely than not that the SAVA was 
suitable for Mr N. And I think he had enough information about the SAVA as he used the 
benefits many times.
So, for all the above reasons Im not able to uphold Mr Ns complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman