DRN-2782214
Complaint
Ms N says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies. 
Background
Ms N completed a leaflet application for dual credit cards in 1996. The PPI policies started at 
the same time as the credit cards. Ms N says she doesnt recall the PPI being sold to her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
In summary, she said that whilst she was working, she was also a part-time higher education 
student at the time of the sale. She said that because of this, she wouldnt have been able to 
claim under the unemployment section of the policy. So the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
On 23 March 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision I explained 
that I agreed with the outcome reached by the adjudicator. But I provided some further 
clarification and gave Ms N and Barclays an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of 
what I said:
At the time of the sale, Barclays had to make it clear to Ms N that the policies were optional, 
and it had to gain her consent before applying PPI to her accounts. Looking closely at       
Ms Ns credit card application form, under the Payment Protection Insurance section I can 
see Ms N was given the option of ticking next to the statements, Yes, I want my Barclaycard 
account(s) to be covered against unemployment, accident, sickness and death or No I 
do not require protection On Ms Ns application form, there is a tick next to the Yes box 
indicating she wanted it. Ms N has also signed the application form agreeing to its contents. 
Looking at Ms Ns statements, I can also see the PPI would have appeared as PAYMENT 
PROTECTION PLAN and I think it would have been quite prominent. So, while Ms N says 
she didnt know she had PPI, I think its likely she would have seen this and if she wasnt 
sure what it was for, I would have expected her to query the transactions with Barclays much 
sooner than she did.
The sale took place over 24 years ago, so its quite possible Ms N may not remember all of 
the details now. But having considered all of the available information, I think its more likely 
than not Barclays made it clear that the PPI was an optional product and Ms N chose to take 
it.
Ms N says she didnt receive any advice from the Barclays advisor when she took out the 
PPI. Barclays, on the other hand, says the policies would have been recommended to Ms N. 
This means Barclays had to check the policies were right for her. Ms N has informed us that 
she was working at the time of the sale and was studying part-time in higher education. She 
says she thinks the fact that she was studying, would have meant that she couldnt claim 
under the unemployment section of her policy  so she says this shows the PPI wasnt right 
for her.
Having thought about Ms Ns circumstances at the time of sale, I dont think this shows the 
PPI wasnt right for her. I am satisfied she was eligible for cover and I cant see that she 
would have been affected by anything the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical 
conditions or unusual unemployment terms. I also couldnt find anything within the terms and 
conditions to suggest that she wouldnt be able to make a claim under the unemployment 
section because of the fact she was studying while working.
Ms N cant recall what sick pay she would have been entitled to from her employer, but 
thinks she may have been entitled to some pay if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told 
us she didnt have any savings or other means she could have used to cover her credit card 
repayments if she ever fell on hard times. Having thought what shes said about her sick 
pay, I dont think this shows Barclays was wrong to recommend PPI to Ms N. I say this 
because the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay she would have received 
from her employer and also would have paid a benefit if she became unemployed. It also 
would have paid a benefit in the event of death. So, I think the PPI would have been useful 
to Ms N if she ever became too unwell to work or lost her job. It also looks like it was 
affordable. It follows that I dont think Barclays was wrong to recommend the PPI to her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ms N doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policies didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the 
policies could have been useful to her. So I dont think better information would have 
stopped her buying it. 
Based on what Ive said above, I dont currently think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means 
Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms N.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms N because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms N about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms N, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision. 
Barclays said that it didnt have anything further for me to consider and I didnt receive a 
response from Ms N.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.As neither Ms N nor Barclays provided any further evidence or arguments for me to look at, 
Ive reached the same conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, for the same 
reasons. So I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint. That means I dont think Ms Ns PPI policy was 
mis-sold. So, Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms N.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms N because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms N about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms N, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I dont uphold the complaint. So Barclays Bank UK PLC dont have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms N.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms N any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman