DRN-3036241
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the process Standard Life Assurance Limited insisted he go 
through in order for him to drawdown funds from his pension. 
What happened
Mr G contacted Standard Life as he wanted to take a 25% tax-free drawdown from the funds 
in his self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He hadn't previously taken any funds from the 
pension. Mr G told Standard Life that he hadn't taken advice before making his request and 
didnt need any. He asked it to send him the appropriate form so that he could arrange the 
drawdown. Standard Life told Mr G that it couldnt arrange the drawdown without running 
through some questions with him first. Mr G didnt think that was appropriate. He said he 
found Standard Lifes questions, particularly concerning his health, intrusive. But he did 
eventually go through Standard Lifes questions and it arranged the drawdown for him. 
Mr G remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into it. He didnt think Standard Life needed to take any further action. Mr G didnt agree so 
his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to instruct Standard Life to do anything else. 
I understand that there are two key outstanding points of concern for Mr G:
That he couldnt arrange the pension drawdown without Standard Life insisting on 
speaking with him, which Mr G called an exit interview.
That Standard Life asks a compulsory question concerning its customers health.
Ill consider each in turn.
Mr G told Standard Life that he was perfectly capable of managing his own pension and 
investments. He clearly knew exactly what he wanted to do, why he wanted to do it and had 
considered the implications of that. So, from his perspective, he simply needed Standard Life 
to arrange the drawdown of the 25% tax-free lump sum from his pension pot, as hed asked 
it to do. He said he had no need for any advice or guidance and thought the process should 
have been relatively simple. But instead Standard Life insisted on putting questions to him 
which he didnt think were appropriate. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr G said and while I can understand his position, I dont 
think Standard Life treated him unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why.
Mr G is clearly confident in his abilities to manage his investments and was similarly aware 
of his pension entitlements. But Mr G hadnt taken any form of professional advice 
concerning the drawdown request. And in those circumstances, in order to fulfil its regulatory 
requirements, Standard Life was required to ask Mr G questions to find out whether there 
were any risk factors in him taking the lump sum. 
Standard Life did this by running through a series of questions with Mr G. Im aware that he 
didnt think he needed any form of intervention from Standard Life and so thinks that there 
should have been a mechanism by which he could have opted-out of this process. But as 
I've said above, I understand that asking the appropriate questions, identifying any risks 
involved and giving any applicable warning based on Mr Gs answers to those questions is 
something Standard Life must do in these circumstances. So it couldnt offer Mr G the option 
of opting-out of the process, without falling foul of the regulators rules. And, while I can 
understand why Mr G found that frustrating, given that this was something Standard Life was 
required to do, I think its approach was reasonable.
Mr G was particularly concerned that Standard Life insisted on asking him questions about 
his health. Standard Life explained that, where an individual isnt expected to live for longer 
than 12 months, then they may be able to take more than the 25% tax-free lump sum Mr G 
was asking for. So that was why it was asking the question. I dont think there was anything 
unreasonable about that. 
That said I do understand Mr Gs point that hed been clear that he wasnt looking to take 
more than his 25% tax-free lump sum; so Standard Life had no reason to persist with asking 
him that question. I do have some sympathy with that view. I note Mr G didnt ever answer 
the question explicitly, and Standard Life was able to complete the drawdown process 
without him doing so. But I think its reasonable that Standard Life would want to be certain 
that its customers are making fully informed decisions. And given the question is asked in 
order to try to ensure that those who might be in most need are aware of their entitlements, I 
dont think its unfair or unreasonable for Standard Life to put such a question to all its 
customers in those circumstances. That's the case even if there might be other ways in 
which it could be more delicately phrased. So I dont think it dealt with Mr G unfairly or 
unreasonably in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not going to instruct Standard Life to take any further 
action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman