DRN-3866613
The complaint
I complains that it was provided with the wrong policy document when it bought insurance 
from Higos Insurance Services Ltd that led to its claim being unfairly declined.
As a director of I, Mr Z has brought the claim on its behalf. 
What happened
In late 2020 Mr Z took out a commercial landlords insurance policy with legal protection for a 
property I owns and rents out. He took it out through Higos, a broker, who provided Mr Z with 
the policy documents.
Shortly after taking out the policy, Mr Z made a claim after the tenants of the property 
threatened civil action against I. However the claim was declined as the insurer of the policy 
said it only covered prosecution for criminal proceedings and excluded civil action. 
In the course of the claim, it came to light that the policy documentation that Higos provided 
when the policy was taken out was an outdated version and wasnt the policy that was in 
place for I. Mr Z first made a complaint to the insurer. He said the version of the policy he 
had been provided didnt exclude cover for civil action and had he been provided with the 
correct documentation he wouldnt have agreed to take on the cover and would have looked 
elsewhere. 
The insurer responded to his complaint to say that while the policy documents provided were 
incorrect, it had considered his claim against the outdated policy he had been provided with 
and the claim was still declined, so the error didnt change its position. Mr Z brought this 
complaint to this service but an investigator didnt uphold it. 
Following this, he made a complaint to Higos about the sale of the policy. He said if it hadnt 
erroneously provided an outdated copy of the policy, then he would have got insurance 
elsewhere and therefore his claim would have been covered. So due to Higos error, he had 
been left without cover for his claim.
 Higos partially upheld the complaint as it accepted it sent incorrect policy documents to Mr 
Z. Due to this, it offered a refund of the policy premiums for the legal protection cover. 
Mr Z wasnt happy with this as it didnt think the response fully addressed the impact the 
error had had on him. He brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said that while he agreed Higos had made an error, he thought it had acted fairly by 
refunding the policy premiums. He said as the insurer had considered the claim against the 
policy wording that was provided, he didnt agree there had been any further impact.
Mr Z didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint I need to identify whether the business in question has got 
something wrong. And where I find it has, consider the impact of this on its customer in order 
to determine what it should do to put things right. 
Here, there is no dispute that Higos got something wrong. It agrees it sent outdated policy 
documents to Mr Z when he took out the policy. So I need to consider the impact of this 
error.
The wording of the policy document that was provided had different wording around the legal 
cover in place. The older policy that was provided included a brief description of the legal 
cover included, whereas the newer policy  the correct one  included clearer wording about 
the cover only relating to criminal prosecutions. 
Mr Zs claim was declined based on the fact that the proceedings that were taken against I 
were civil rather than criminal. He says the claim should reasonably be covered under the 
policy wording he had been provided with. 
His insurer has confirmed that it has considered his claim under the policy he was provided 
with, even though it was the incorrect policy for his cover. And its found that the claim would 
still not be covered. So while the incorrect policy document was provided, as the insurer has 
considered the claim against the document Mr Z did have I dont agree that he has lost out. 
As the outcome of the claim is the same whether the correct document was provided or not, 
which means the incorrect document had no bearing on the claim. 
Mr Z has said that if he had been provided with the correct policy wording, then he would 
have opted to find cover elsewhere. And, as he has now been able to find legal cover that 
includes cover for the situation he claimed for, he would have likely had a policy that would 
cover the claim. Ive considered this, but Im not persuaded this would have been the case. 
As Ive seen nothing to suggest that this specific area of the cover was an important feature 
for Mr Z when he took it out, but only became so when the need to claim arose.
I understand Mr Z considers the policy wording in the documents he was provided with to be 
unclear, and thinks the definition of the word prosecution has been unfairly applied. 
However in this complaint I am only considering the actions of Higos as his broker. And the 
policy wording and application of it, is the responsibility of the insurer. So this isnt something 
I can hold Higos responsible for as it had no involvement in how the policy was applied or 
written, and therefore I havent considered this as part of this complaint. 
So while I agree Higos made an error by sending the wrong policy documents, I dont agree 
this has had an impact on the outcome of Mr Zs claim. Higos has offered a refund of the 
policy premiums for the legal cover and I think this is enough to apologise for the mistake. I 
therefore wont ask it to do anything further 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman