DRN-3084272
The complaint
Mr G complains that The Share Centre Limited (TSC) sold his shares without his authority. 
He had to buy the shares back at a higher price and he wants TSC to compensate him.
What happened
Mr G has an execution only ISA account with TSC. Within his ISA he had a shareholding 
which I will refer to as V. In September 2020, Mr G phoned TSC as he was aware the 
company would be delisting from the UK AIM market and that the shares would only be 
tradeable though the US market. He made it clear he did not want to sell the shares. TSC 
told him the shares couldnt continue to be held in the ISA after delisting, but that he could 
transfer them, without the need to sell them. TSC sent Mr G the required US tax form which 
he completed and returned, to allow him to retain the shares.
Mr G says that, towards the end of November, he received notification that the shares had 
been sold. TSC told him it had sent him an email asking for his instructions but that, because 
Mr G didnt reply, it sold the shares.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought TSCs 
communication had been clear and that it hadnt acted unreasonably in selling Mr Gs 
shares.
Mr G didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
When he phoned TSC, it apologised and offered to buy back the shares with no handling 
fee. TSC now seems to have lost that call recording.
The email from TSC asking for instructions didnt come from its usual address, which is 
why Mr G missed it.
This all happened around the time TSCs business was being taken over and this 
probably affected the service he received from its staff.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
TSC wrote to Mr G on 9 October 2020 to tell him about the delisting of V shares. It explained 
that the shares were being converted into ADRs. It said the ADRs could not be held in 
Mr Gs ISA because of the ISA regulations and requirements. It said the ADRs would have 
to be transferred within 30 days of the conversation and that its technical team would be in 
contact, after the conversion, to set out the options available.
TSC emailed Mr G on 20 November 2020 setting out the options available to him. The email 
was clear that the ADRs would be sold if Mr G didnt respond by 2.30pm on 27 November. 
Mr G didnt respond, so his shares were sold.
Mr G says hes held an account with TSC for many years and all emails are received from 
TSC. The 20 November 2020 email was sent from the Tech Team. He told us that on the 
same day he received a lot of spam and marketing emails and he didnt recognise this email 
as something he needed to action. I accept that important emails are sometimes missed in 
circumstances like those Mr G describes. But I dont find TSC made an error here. Its 
October letter told Mr G he would receive an email from its technical team; the email was 
headed IMPORTANT INFORMATION: VPlc Ord.; and Mr G knew TSC would be 
contacting him to seek his instructions sometime between 30 October and mid to late 
November.
And I dont find there was any obligation on TSC to contact Mr G to check if hed received 
the email and if he wanted to sell or transfer his shares. Mr G says hed made it very clear 
that he didnt want to sell his shares. But I wouldnt reasonably expect TSC to have identified 
this when it was communicating to all its customers who held V shares, and when the shares 
were going to be sold automatically at a specified time. Mr Gs earlier phone calls with TSC 
didnt stop the obligation being on him to provide his instructions following TSCs 
20 November email.
Mr G says TSC admitted it made a mistake during a phone call and offered to repurchase 
the shares with no dealing charge. Its disappointingTSC hasnt been able to provide a 
recording of the call that took place. But I dont think being able to listen to exactly what was 
said would change the outcome here. The offer was made before the complaint had been 
investigated. It isnt unusual for a business to make a gesture of goodwill like this, without 
any admission of liability. And its final response letter says, I tried to have the difference in 
funds paid to you in compensation, which suggests an offer had been made over the phone. 
But the letter is clear that this could not be actioned as The Share Centre were not 
responsible for the error.
I dont find that TSC acted unfairly or unreasonably here, so I dont find that it is obliged to 
honour any offer it may have made to Mr G during a phone call.
Mr G suggests that the service he received was affected because of changes in the 
business at the time. But Im not persuaded the service he received was any different to 
what it would have been at any other time. TSC acted in line with its agreed terms and 
conditions and I dont find it was obliged to check with Mr G whether he wanted to sell the 
shares once it had sent its 20 November email.
.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman