DRN-4394165
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited trading as 
Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS). He says they shouldnt have lent to him because the 
repayments werent affordable for him.
What happened
In September 2016, Mr M took out a hire purchase agreement with MBFS to finance the 
purchase of a car. He paid a deposit of £578 and borrowed £21,871.92  the cash price of 
the vehicle was £22,449.92. The agreement required Mr M to make 48 monthly repayments 
of £296.91. Mr M could then choose to buy the car at the end of the term for a one-off 
payment of £11,075 (plus a £10 fee). Mr M didnt pay the one-off payment and returned the 
car in February 2021.
In September 2022, Mr M complained to MBFS, saying that if theyd completed adequate 
affordability checks at the time theyd have realised the agreement wasnt affordable for him. 
He said he was self-employed at the time with a fluctuating and uncertain income and added 
that he was the sole earner in his household. Mr M said his expenditure on credit 
commitments, utility bills, food and fuel averaged over £1,800 per month and he had little 
disposable income, and a dependent. He said he had to borrow further to make the 
repayments on this agreement.
MBFS didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said theyd checked Mr Ms credit file and he 
had an existing finance agreement with no credit issues. Theyd seen nothing that would 
suggest hed struggle to keep up with making repayments. Mr M wasnt happy with MBFSs 
response so brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things but also didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said 
she hadnt seen evidence that MBFS had done proportionate checks, but she also hadnt 
seen enough evidence of Mr Ms financial circumstances at the time to say that the loan was 
unaffordable for him.
Mr M asked for an ombudsmans decision. In doing so, he sent in some further information 
for our service to consider. I reviewed this and issued a provisional decision on 
12 September 2023. My provisional decision said I was inclined to uphold Mr Ms complaint 
because I didnt think MBFS had carried out proportionate checks, and if they had I dont 
think they could have fairly decided to lend to Mr M. Here is an extract explaining my 
thoughts:
Did MBFS carry out proportionate checks?
MBFS say they checked Mr Ms credit file and were happy with what they found. And they 
said Mr M had an existing agreement which Mr M was consistently making repayments 
on. They havent told us about any assessment of Mr Ms income or expenditure or about 
anything else they did to consider whether Mr M would be able sustainably make 
repayments under the agreement. MBFS also havent been able to provide a copy of the 
credit file they looked at or any other evidence of the checks they carried out. It follows 
that I cant conclude they carried out proportionate checks.
What would MBFS have found if they had done proportionate checks?
A proportionate check would have involved MBFS finding out more about Mr Ms credit 
history, income and expenditure to determine whether hed be able to make repayments 
in a sustainable way. 
Credit history
Mr Ms sent us a credit report from one of the Credit Reference Agencies from July 2016 
 just a couple of months before the lending decision. This shows:
One default on a mail order account from November 2011 which was subsequently 
satisfied in February 2016.
Defaults on two further mail order accounts - one defaulted in April 2014 with a 
balance of over £1,800, and another in December 2015 with a balance of around 
£672.
One credit card with occasional late payments over the preceding 12 months  
balance around £1,000.
Occasional late payments on his mortgage  balance around £150,000.
Occasional late payments on a vehicle hire purchase  balance around £5,000
Three accounts (two loans and a credit card) which look to have been assigned to a 
debt management company in early 2015  the balance on this was nearly £6,000 
and had occasional late payments in the preceding 12 months.
A loan with a balance of around £4,000 and no missed payments.
Retail finance with a balance of £2,300 and one missed payment.
Mr M was consistently overdrawn on his current account, with a balance of around 
£600 at the time. 
In summary, Mr M had debts of around £20,000 on top of his mortgage and was 
struggling to meet his financial commitments just a few months before MBFSs lending 
decision.
Income
Mr Ms told us he was self-employed at the time and that his business income and 
expenditure went through his current account. He spent some time analysing his account 
for the period from June 2016 to August 2016 and told us he was receiving around 
£3,250 per month for his work but spending more than this (around £3,500) on business 
expenses  so effectively making a loss.
However, Mr Ms also sent us his tax calculation from HMRC for the 2016-17 tax year. 
This says he was paid £26,107 from employment and made a profit of £7,033 on the 
business, as well as receiving £704 in benefits. It says the tax and national insurance 
contributions on his income came to £5,741, leaving him with total net income for the year 
of £28,103. When I asked for more information, Mr M said hed been working on housing 
developments up until April or May 2016 so had a steady stream of work and was able to 
make a profit  but after that was having to find work and thats when the business 
struggled. He took employment in October 2016 to get his family into a better financial 
position.So when MBFS decided to lend to Mr M, his business had made profits of £7,033 over a 
period of six months. On average, therefore, his income was around £1,175 per month 
over that period even though hed made losses in the later months. Clearly the financial 
success of a business can vary significantly from month to month. So Im inclined to say 
when considering Mr Ms income its more reasonable to take the longer term view and 
assess affordability using his monthly average over the six month period, rather than just 
the three months from June to August 2016.
Expenditure
Mr Ms told us that his partner was on maternity leave at the time of the lending decision 
so he had sole responsibility for all of the household expenditure. 
Ive looked at Mr Ms analysis and the underlying bank statements. Im not saying MBFS 
needed to obtain bank statements as part of their lending checks. But in the absence of 
other information, bank statements provide a good indication of his financial 
circumstances at the time the lending decision was made.
The bank statements and analysis together show that in the months preceding the loan 
(June to August 2016), Mr Ms average monthly expenditure included £624 for his 
mortgage, £375 for council tax and utilities, £380 for supermarket spending, £72 on 
mobile phone bills and £56 for his gym membership. He was making repayments against 
his loans and credit card totalling around £220 per month, as well as £297 per month 
against a car finance agreement. And of the £190 per month spend on petrol, hes said 
£50 of this each month was for personal use rather than business use.
In total, this suggests Mr Ms non-discretionary and committed expenditure was around 
£2,075 per month on average - significantly higher than his average income at the time. 
This explains why he was borrowing money from family and friends and demonstrates 
that the agreement wasnt affordable. 
Conclusion
Taking everything together, I cant see that MBFS did proportionate checks when decided 
to lend to Mr M. If they had, I dont think they could have reasonably concluded that Mr M 
would be able to make the repayments in a sustainable way. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision, and MBFS provided no further comments or 
evidence. So my opinion is unchanged and Im upholding the complaint.
Putting things right
I set out my proposed redress in my provisional decision. As neither party has disputed this, 
Ive made no changes and MBFS need to put things right as follows:
As I dont think MBFS should have approved the lending, its not fair for them to charge any 
interest or other charges under the agreement. But Mr M had use of the car for the whole 
term of the agreement, so its fair he pays for that use. The cash price of the vehicle when he 
bought it was £22,450, and the optional purchase payment at the end of the term was 
£11,075. I think its fair for Mr M to pay the difference  being £11,375. This is roughly what it 
would have cost him to have the car interest-free. So it would be fair and reasonable for 
MBFS to retain this amount. To settle Mr Ms complaint, MBFS need to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay unless this has already been done. 
Refund all the payments Mr M has made (including the deposit), less £11,375 for fair 
usage. 
oIf Mr M has paid more than the fair usage figure, MBFS should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or; 
oIf Mr M has paid less than the fair usage figure, MBFS should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once MBFS has received the fair usage amount, they should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding the agreement.
If MBFS consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they should 
provide Mr M a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Mr M can reclaim that 
amount, assuming he is eligible to do so.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and directing Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance to take the steps outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman