DRN-4016083
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled their home 
insurance claim.
Mrs D represents herself and Mr D in this complaint. References to AXA include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D held a home insurance policy underwritten by AXA. Unfortunately, in late 
January 2022, there was a fire at their home which caused significant damage. The next day 
Mrs D contacted AXA to make a claim on their home insurance policy. 
Mrs D complained about the way AXA dealt with her claim. In the initial call, she says the call 
handler incorrectly told her certain things werent covered and made insensitive comments 
comparing her claim to the previous call. When she raised this, she was told the person was 
new and needed further training. Mrs D was also told the loss adjuster couldnt attend until 
March, which was incorrect, and she wasnt given alternative accommodation at all or 
emergency funds quickly enough. 
As a result of what happened, Mrs D says she lost confidence in AXA and instructed her 
own loss assessor in early February, who Ill refer to as M, to manage the claim on her 
behalf. 
AXA upheld this complaint in its final response letter (FRL) of March 2022. It agreed the 
service given to Mrs D wasnt to the standard itd expect and apologised for the insensitive 
comments and distress and inconvenience caused by the problems shed experienced. It 
paid Mrs D £200 for this with an additional £25 for not responding within its own timescales. 
In relation to emergency funds, it explained the agreed process with its agent meant they 
dont raise payments until the initial visit has taken place but felt, given Mrs Ds difficult 
situation, the agent couldve referred this to AXA sooner. Whilst it was sorry it hadnt been 
able to find suitable alternative accommodation, AXA noted Mrs D had chosen to stay with 
family and was being paid a disturbance allowance. 
As the claim progressed, M, on behalf of Mrs D, complained about the delay in approving the 
tender report and, later, the cost of removing the asbestos which had been discovered part 
way through the works and prevented progress. Mrs D was also unhappy she frequently 
couldnt reach anyone to discuss it by phone. AXA upheld this complaint in its FRL of July 
2022 and noted the approval to remove the asbestos had then been given. It apologised for 
the way the claim had been handled and accepted it hadnt met its highest standards of 
service. To apologise for any distress and inconvenience caused, it paid £150 to Mrs D.
In August 2022, AXA sent Mrs D a further FRL which noted she was unhappy with the two 
previous FRLs mentioned above and remained unhappy with its handling of her claim. AXA 
didnt agree to change its decision on the earlier complaints and was satisfied with the way 
itd handled the claim since the July FRL had been sent. 
Mrs D brought a complaint to this service. She explained the main issue is with the 
unnecessary delays to works which have prevented her from returning home in a reasonable 
timeframe. And how this had impacted her health and the stress it had caused. 
Our Investigator looked into matters. They noted AXA accepted there had been delays and 
poor service during the claim but felt the compensation offered didnt adequately recognise 
this, so they increased the compensation to £500. AXA accepted this. 
Mrs D didnt agree. She says the compensation isnt high enough and it was AXAs 
unnecessary delays which had the greatest impact on her mental health. She therefore 
wants it to also cover the costs she feels she incurred as a result such as counselling 
sessions, fuel and additional time off work. Mrs D feels the amount is nothing for a company 
of AXAs size and so it will continue to get away with it. She also wants AXA to review its 
language around mental health and to receive an apology.
As the parties didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key facts here arent in dispute. AXA admits it got things wrong. The key issue I must 
decide is whether the things it has done to put matters right is fair and reasonable. 
To do this, its important to distinguish between the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs 
D suffered because there was a fire at their home and its consequences, which AXA isnt 
responsible for, with what AXA did or failed to do that mightve added to that distress. For 
example, the need for Mr and Mrs D to move out of the home - whilst understandably 
disruptive and distressing  is a consequence of the fire making their home inhabitable 
rather than something which is AXAs responsibility. 
Taking everything into account, I think its right that AXA should compensate Mr and Mrs D 
for the impact of its failures in this matter. However, I also think its important to explain that, 
as a service, our awards are designed to compensate consumers, not punish organisations. 
So, we look at the impact any mistakes had on the consumer concerned. I can see from 
what has been said by Mrs D that she has found this claim understandably stressful. But 
I also think its important to say its my view AXA took this matter seriously and recognised 
the impact of its actions when Mrs D raised her complaints with it. I say this because it 
apologised to Mr and Mrs D in the FRLs, put things right by ensuring the claim was 
progressing as it shouldve been and offered compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
Mrs D says her main complaint is about the unnecessary delays AXA caused which led to 
her staying in accommodation that was inappropriate longer than she should have and the 
impact of this. However, its not unreasonable for AXA to take time to consider matters 
before approving work, for example, by reviewing the claim itself, seeking advice internally, 
obtaining specialist reports and reviewing quotes. And, from the information Ive been sent, I 
can see this is a significant part of what it was doing even when it may have seemed as 
though no progress was being made. Its also important to balance this with the fact it was a 
significant claim which AXA was reasonably likely to take more time to investigate, consider 
and review. Having said this, I can see areas where there were avoidable delays as follows:
- 2 weeks to approve the tender from when AXAs agent recommended this.- 4 weeks from the time AXA was told the contractor discovered asbestos containing 
material to approve the works to remove this. Although it sought further information, 
the ultimate decision was made without it. 
The additional time it took AXA to approve these may have caused Mrs D to be away from 
her home longer, by somewhere in the region of 3-4 weeks. But Ive also seen there were 
unavoidable delays such as when the asbestos was unexpectedly uncovered. Further, I 
noted examples where AXA was able to progress things swiftly, for example, the contractor 
was approved to start the stripping out works earlier than they were originally due to be 
available. And there were instances I can see AXA took time to make the right decisions, 
such as agreeing to replace rather than repair at an increased cost, to ensure there was no 
risk of an unacceptable finish or later failure.
I note the time the contractor predicted it would take for it to carry out the work has been 
referred to by Mrs D as an overestimation. She also says AXA caused the contractor to start 
later due to its delays because it had then gone to work on another job. The tender 
suggested it would take the contractor 12 weeks to do the work with a 4-week lead time from 
appointment. I wouldnt be surprised if the contractor built some time into its estimate for 
unexpected issues and delays. But this is just that - an estimation  and a contractor taking 
on another job leading to a slightly longer lead time isnt unusual. Even so, the contractor did 
start work a month after being appointed and I understand it took less than 12 weeks from 
the date the work to remove the asbestos was approved to the time the property was 
returned to Mr and Mrs D. And the overall estimate of 16 weeks in the tender doesnt 
consider the time it will take for the entire claim to be dealt from the date it is made to the 
time the consumer returns home. 
As Ive mentioned, this was always going to be an incredibly difficult and distressing time for 
Mr and Mrs D and it wouldve taken a certain amount of time for the claim to be approved 
and works implemented. I accept this period was made particularly distressing as there 
wasnt any suitable alternative accommodation for Mrs D. Even so, I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest this was because of something AXA did wrong and was instead due to 
a lack of suitable accommodation in an area acceptable to Mrs D which was appropriate for 
her pets. So, I dont think its reasonable to say the additional costs Mrs D says shes 
incurred - for example for fuel, counselling, and other matters such as vet fees for her pets 
living in an unsuitable home  wouldnt have always been incurred because of the fire and 
moving in with family, rather than the delays in progressing the works caused by AXA. 
Having said this, I dont doubt Mr and Mrs D incurred extra costs  this often happens when 
you relocate to live in a family members home. However, AXA paid £900 a month as a 
disturbance allowance to Mr and Mrs D. A disturbance allowance is designed to reflect the 
actual costs a consumer has incurred and so theyd usually be required to evidence their 
normal costs before the claim, as well as the costs incurred throughout the claim. However, 
industry practice is that the allowance should be paid at a rate of £10 per day for each adult 
living at the insured property as not everyone keeps receipts for everyday expenses. So, I 
consider AXA took a pragmatic decision to give a disturbance allowance to Mr and Mrs D 
and I note this is significantly more than this service would usually recommend. 
Taking everything into account, I consider the apologies AXA has given and the total 
compensation of £500 its agreed to pay to Mr and Mrs D (which is a further £150 on top of 
the compensation it had already offered) to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
think the significance of the amount adequately recognises the failures AXA and their agents 
have made which have elongated the claim process and added further distress and 
inconvenience in addition to what Mr and Mrs D wouldve experienced due to the fire itself. I note Mrs D would like to improve the language AXA uses around mental health. This isnt 
something that our service can do. We look at individual complaints. The Financial Conduct 
Authority is the party who regulates insurers and can consider their processes more 
generally. So, whilst this might be something she wants to take forward with them, its not 
something I can consider.
Mrs D mentioned to our investigator her contents claim hasnt yet been satisfactorily 
resolved. This will need to be a separate complaint to AXA in the first instance. As the 
investigator explained, this decision only considers the matters covered in the FRL of 8 
August 2022, which also refers to the two FRLs before it. 
I know Mrs D will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to informally resolve the dispute with AXA  can do for her.
Putting things right
AXA Insurance UK Limited Plc needs to pay Mr and Mrs D a further £150 (to bring the 
compensation to a total of £500) to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. So, AXA Insurance UK Limited Plc needs to 
take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman