DRN-2345987
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD as the insurer, should accept responsibility 
for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs P says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a policy Mrs P took out with a store card in October 1998. It was 
added to her account when she applied for the card in the store whilst shopping.
Mrs P mainly said that she wasnt aware she had PPI on her store card so it was added 
without her knowledge. And she told us she couldnt have claimed on this policy as she 
didnt know what it covered. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
and she has asked for a review. Mrs P doesnt think there was enough information on the 
application form to enable her to have made an informed decision about whether the policy 
was suitable for her needs.
So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
What Mrs P says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I have to 
look at all the information available and decide what I think is most likely.
AXA has given us a copy of Mrs Ps store card application. Mrs P has signed in the PPI part 
of the form, next to where it says Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment and 
Purchase Protection Insurance Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly 
premium until further notice. I think its reasonable to expect Mrs P wouldve first read 
through anything she was asked to sign. 
And I can see that she didnt choose to sign up for another optional feature offered with the 
store card she was applying for. 
So, although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been clear 
from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs P to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
Mrs P signed the completed application so it seems to me that she must have agreed with the 
information on the form at the time  even if, understandably, she has forgotten this now. 
So, on balance, I think Mrs P was aware she was signing up for PPI, she understood the 
policy was optional and it was added to her account when she indicated that she wanted to 
take it out. 
AXA shouldve given Mrs P enough clear information to decide if the policy was right for her. 
Its possible some information AXA gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. 
So I need to consider if Mrs P wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if clearer 
information had been provided. 
The policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Mrs P was off work sick or if Mrs P lost her 
job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
(It also offered other cover which was limited to the first 12 months but Im concentrating in 
my decision on the PPI part of the policy. So I have ignored this extra benefit when deciding 
whether to uphold the complaint that PPI was mis-sold).
In the event of a successful claim, the policy couldve cleared her card balance if Mrs P 
wasnt able to go back to work. 
Mrs P hasnt mentioned having any significant other means she couldve relied on if she 
wasnt working  she told us that she was able to rely on statutory sick pay only and she had 
no savings. 
So I think Mrs P couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed needed to claim. 
It doesnt look as if Mrs P was affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont 
think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put Mrs P 
off taking it out. 
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs P clear enough information about the costs of the 
policy. But Mrs P chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time. 
And she indicated on the application form that she was happy to pay to have it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mrs P, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think shed still have taken out the policy. 
This means Mrs P hasnt lost out as a result of anything AXA did wrong. So it doesnt need 
to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman