DRN-2699288
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building Society treated them unfairly when they 
tried to port their mortgage and take out additional borrowing. As their application was 
declined, Mr and Mrs C incurred an ERC and would like this refunded.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C held a mortgage with Nationwide which had a fixed rate of interest that 
applied until May 2020. 
Mr and Mrs C applied for a new mortgage with Nationwide to fund their purchase of a 
house which they were planning to buy from a family member. In doing this, they were 
hoping to keep their existing rate and avoid paying an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) 
which would be incurred when exiting the fixed rate  a process commonly referred to as 
porting. 
They sold their property in March 2020 and paid the ERC. Mr and Mrs C say that they 
were reassured by Nationwide that they had 180 days from then to apply and complete on 
a porting application, which would keep the rate they were on and reimburse the ERC 
charged. 
The valuation on the new property took place later in March 2020. It was valued at 
£300,000 and Nationwide placed a retainer of £20,000 on the property as the planned 
extension works were not complete. This valuation changed the loan to value (LTV) and, 
in turn, the amount that Nationwide was willing to lend Mr and Mrs C. Because of this, 
the application was declined.  
Mr and Mrs C raised a complaint. Nationwide replied to say that it hadnt treated Mr and 
Mrs C unfairly and that the mortgage was declined due to the valuation increasing the 
LTV.
Mr and Mrs C further complained that Nationwide refused to extend the deadline to port 
past September 2020, especially in light of the impact on building works due to the 
coronavirus pandemic. 
Nationwide rejected the further complaint but offered £75 in recognition of delays with 
sharing information. 
Mr and Mrs C brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator considered the 
matter and thought that, whilst it wouldnt be fair to ask Nationwide to refund the ERC, it 
should pay an additional £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs C 
during the application process. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is worth saying to begin with that porting a mortgage involves an entirely new 
application, for a new mortgage. If a porting application is successful the new mortgage 
retains some of the features of the old mortgage  usually, amongst other things, the interest 
rate. But the mortgage itself is based on a new lending decision by the business, assessed 
at the time it is made  against the lending criteria in place at the time of the porting 
application.
Mr and Mrs C approached Nationwide to see if they could borrow additional funds and port 
their mortgage rate to a new property that they were buying from a family member. Mr and 
Mrs C have said that Nationwide indicated to them that there wouldnt be an issue with 
porting their mortgage and so any ERC charged would be refunded. 
Ive listened to the calls between Mr and Mrs C and Nationwide at the beginning of 2020. 
Having done so, I dont think that Nationwide provided certainties to Mr and Mrs C that this 
was a done deal and that they would have the ERC refunded. Nationwide explained that 
lending would be subject to a valuation and that Mr and Mrs C would need to complete on 
their new house within 180 days of selling their property in order for the ERC to be repaid. 
The sale of the previous property was discussed, which was close to conclusion around 
March 2020. Mr and Mrs C were aware of the ERC and that there was only a short period of 
time left (around six weeks) until it would not need to be paid. 
I can understand that, with the benefit of hindsight, they now say that they would have 
waited until the end of their fixed rate period. But, having listened to these conversations, I 
dont agree that Nationwide guaranteed that the porting application would go ahead. I think 
that it was made sufficiently clear that the valuation could result in a retention being placed 
considering the building works and that the application would need to be thoroughly 
checked. 
I can also see that, in addition to the calls, the decision in principle (DIP) issued to Mr and 
Mrs C outlined that the borrowing quoted was subject to lending criteria, a valuation, as well 
as a review by an underwriter. And so I think this also shows that the additional borrowing 
was not guaranteed and subject to further checks. 
A valuation took place around March and, following this, a retainer of £20,000 was placed on 
the property as building works were not complete. The result of this valuation changed the 
amount that Nationwide were willing to lend, and in turn the LTV. As a result, the mortgage 
application was declined.  
I can appreciate that this was very disappointing for Mr and Mrs C. But ultimately, it is for a 
lender to decide whether to agree to additional borrowing. And here, this resulted in Mr and 
Mrs C being unable to port the mortgage or have the ERC refunded. Its the termination of 
the product before its expiry, not the paying back of the loan, which triggers the ERC. If the 
lender doesnt agree to the new mortgage  as Nationwide hasnt here - theres nothing to 
port the product onto, and so it follows that the ERC will be payable.
Its very unfortunate for Mr and Mrs C that, shortly after the sale of their property and the 
valuation, a lockdown was announced due to the coronavirus pandemic and restrictions 
were imposed  including to building work for a period of time. They said that they were 
unable to complete the works that Nationwide asked for in order for the retainer to be removed by the deadline to port their mortgage, as they were only allowed one trade person 
to work in the property at a time. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs C submitted a new application, which was cancelled as they then 
explained that they would be buying the property at a new, reduced price. Nationwide asked 
for a new application to be submitted. It was but later, Mr and Mrs C decided not to proceed 
with it and to seek borrowing with other lenders. 
Mortgage applications are not straightforward and can take time to be processed and 
approved  and here, due to the pandemic, lenders were experiencing significant delays in 
processing and approving applications. I can understand Mr and Mrs Cs arguments but 
ultimately, I think the delays were due to external factors and so I dont think it would be fair 
to say that Nationwide are responsible for the fact that Mr and Mrs C were not able to have 
the ERC refunded. 
Mr and Mrs C said that they tried to ask Nationwide to complete a new valuation. I can see 
from the contact notes that a surveyor was sent to the property in August 2020 but was told 
that the application was no longer proceeding. Mr C has said that this was cancelled as he 
was not available on the day. However, considering this I dont think that Nationwide refused 
to send out a surveyor. 
But I do consider that there were some communication issues from Nationwide. It has 
already acknowledged this and offered £75 for poor service. 
I dont think this goes far enough  I think there were further communication issues. Most 
notably the delay in telling Mr and Mrs C that their initial application was declined and the 
subsequent failure to pass on information from the underwriter that they could reduce the 
borrowing requested, in addition to correspondence being sent to their old property.
Ive kept in mind that Nationwide were also faced with the impact of the restrictions imposed 
due to the pandemic, but overall I think this could have been handled better. Having thought 
about this carefully, I think the investigators recommendation of £200 is a fair reflection of 
the impact of the poor service.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint in part and direct Nationwide to pay Mr and Mrs C £200 in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenience caused to them. I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Nationwide Building 
Society to pay Mr and Mrs C £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by this matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman