DRN-4319076
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited after he 
made a claim under his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
In early 2023, Mr M contacted British Gas about an issue with his boiler. He says it kept 
switching off and he had to keep re-setting it. 
British Gas attended Mr Ms property twice in January but says it wasnt able to replicate the 
fault. It says its engineer reviewed video footage from Mr M and suggested it might be due to 
a frozen condensate pipe. It waived the £60 excess for the visit as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr Ms boiler was due an annual service in late January, but British Gas rescheduled it to the 
end of February. No issues were identified during the service visit. 
Around a month later, Mr Ms boiler stopped working completely. An engineer attended and 
discovered a leak. The engineer capped the gas supply and deemed the boiler beyond 
economical repair. 
Mr M raised a complaint with British Gas. He thought British Gas was responsible for the 
boiler being beyond repair as it hadnt spotted the leak in its visits in January or the service 
in February. Mr M felt that British Gas should reimburse him the cost of a new boiler. 
British Gas said there were no issues or signs of a leak during the breakdown visits in 
January or the service in February. There was no failure in British Gass work quality or 
diagnosis. It said it had previously advised Mr M to support the flue (which was not covered 
by the policy) in December 2021. As this had not been done, the flue had moved and caused 
the leak. 
British Gas said it had refunded Mr Ms policy premium as no repairs were completed during 
the current contractual year. It also refunded the £60 excess for the March call out and paid 
Mr M £90 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his concerns. Our investigator 
didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She didnt think British Gas had done 
anything wrong during the repair visits or the service.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators outcome. He commented that British Gas hadnt 
opened the flap of the boiler to investigate the issues hed raised. He said British Gas had 
given incorrect information about when hed showed an engineer a video. He felt our 
investigator had unfairly sided with British Gas and had based her outcome on assumption, 
rather than facts. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms policy covered him for repairs to his boiler and controls and central heating and 
included an annual service.
Mr M says he told British Gas there was an issue with his boiler which meant he regularly 
needed to reset it before the engineers visits in January 2023. He doesnt think British Gas 
did enough to investigate the issue. He says British Gas didnt look inside the boiler until the 
final visit in March 2023, by which time most of the parts had been damaged. He believes 
that if British Gas had diagnosed the issue sooner, he wouldnt have needed to replace his 
boiler.
British Gass notes from the two visits in January 2023 say that no fault was found. However, 
the notes are quite brief, so I cant see what checks were carried out. 
British Gass terms and conditions say:
One of our engineers will visit your home and complete your annual service. This will 
include testing the gases your appliance or boiler produces. 
If the visit shows that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart to adjust or clean 
it, well do so. 
During the visit, our engineer will fill in a checklist that shows you exactly what weve looked 
at. If we find a problem or fault that needs to be fixed, well tell you about it.
According to the notes from the annual service visit, the engineer checked the gas rate, 
flame safety device and carbon monoxide detector and these were okay. British Gas has 
noted that the annual service engineer reported there were no signs of corrosion or water 
when the boiler was checked.
The engineer who carried out the visit in March 2023 has noted that the flue leaked, and    
Mr M was previously advised to get the flue supported.
British Gas says it advised Mr M to get his flue supported during a visit in December 2021 
and quoted him for this. It says that because Mr M didnt do this, the vertical flue had moved 
and caused the leak. 
Mr M has acknowledged being told the flue was missing a bracket in December 2021. He 
says he decided not to replace it at the time due to the cost. However, he disputes the 
missing bracket being the cause of the leak as he says it happened further down the flue.
I appreciate Mr M feels that British Gas should have diagnosed the leak sooner. However, 
the information from British Gas suggests this wasnt apparent until the final visit, in March 
2023. 
Mr M strongly believes that British Gas would have found the problem if it had opened up his 
boiler in January and he also says the issue wasnt caused by the flue not being supported. 
However, I havent seen any expert evidence to support his opinions.
Mr Ms policy agreement says that in the event his boiler couldnt be fixed he might be 
entitled to a refund of his premium back to when he last had work done or when he renewed 
his agreement  whichever was most recent. British Gas has refunded Mr Ms premium for the year. Its also refunded him the excess for 
the last visit and paid him £90 for distress and inconvenience. I think this is reasonable. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr M, but based on what Ive seen, I think British 
Gas has acted fairly and reasonably  in line with the policys terms and conditions. So, I 
dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman