DRN-1689687
 
Complaint
Mr S2 and Mr B (on behalf of the estate of the late Mr S1), and Mrs K complain that Bank of 
Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold Mr S1 and Mrs K a monthly premium mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
Mr S1 and Mrs K were sold a MPPI policy in 1987 during a meeting. 
Although the mortgage was in both Mr S1 and Mrs Ks names, the MPPI policy only covered 
Mr S1. The PPI would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr 
S1 was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think that this complaint should be upheld. Mr S2 and Mrs K didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr S1 was eligible under the policy. Based on Mr S1s 
age and employment (amongst other things) at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he was 
eligible.
BoS had to make it clear to Mr S1 and Mrs K that the MPPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to their account. Mr S2 says that Mr S1 and Mrs K were 
pressured into taking MPPI. Mr S2 explains the circumstances in which Mr S1 and Mrs K 
went to the Bank to apply for a mortgage. He said that they werent fluent in English and 
explains the reasons for this. He says he was taken with them to the meeting - a four year 
old child - to help translate. He says Mr S1 and Mrs K were in a vulnerable position and that 
BoS took advantage of their limited knowledge and understanding.
I should make it clear that while some of the comments made by Mr S2 appear to refer to the 
mortgage itself, I am only considering the complaint about whether or not MPPI was mis-
sold, and not the mortgage itself. 
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale and unfortunately (though 
understandably) due to the length of time that has passed since the sale, BoS no longer 
have the documents from the time of the sale. But I note that the policy itself was optional 
and Mr S2 doesnt say that the policy was presented as compulsory or that Mr S1 and Mrs K didnt agree to take it out. So in these circumstances, I cant say its more likely that the PPI 
wasnt presented as optional or that it was added without their consent.  
However, Mr S2 does say that due to their limited understanding of English, Mr S1 and Mrs 
K would not have known what they were agreeing to and so this was unfair. Ive thought 
carefully about this. But given that they had gone to the Bank to take out an important long 
term financial commitment, they would also have borne some responsibility to ensure they 
understood what was happening. And importantly, although I appreciate what Mr S2 has told 
us, I havent actually seen any evidence that they didnt understand what they were agreeing 
to take out or that BoS took advantage of their situation. Although this was several years 
after the MPPI was sold, I also note that in fact Mr S1 also made a successful claim on the 
policy. 
So having considered this carefully, I cant say its more likely that Mr S1 and Mrs K didnt 
know what they were agreeing to. Nor am I able to conclude that BoS were wrong to have 
sold them MPPI in these circumstances.  And I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to 
conclude that BoS pressured them into taking PPI out.
BoS say they advised Mr S1 and Mrs K to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was 
suitable for them. I dont know if BoS took all the steps they should have to check if the MPPI 
was suitable for them but I do think the policy was suitable for them. I say this because:
 
I cant see that Mr S1 would have been entitled to any sick pay from his employer. 
But even if he was, the MPPI would have paid out in addition to this and likely for a 
much longer period of time. The MPPI was protecting a valuable asset and Mr S1 
and Mrs K didnt have any other guaranteed means of meeting the repayments. The 
MPPI would also have paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr S1 lost his job.
 
Although Mr S2 has mentioned Mr S1 and Mrs K may have had some savings, there 
is insufficient information about these for me to able to conclude that these would 
have meant the policy was unsuitable for Mr S1 and Mrs K. In any event, if Mr S1 
and Mrs K did have some savings, these could have been used for living expenses 
while the MPPI took care of the mortgage repayments.
 
Mr S1 didnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy.
 
The policy was relatively competitively priced at £4 per month and I havent seen 
anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr S1 and Mrs K at the time of 
the sale.
 
Mr S1 and Mrs K could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Mr S1 and Mrs K, BoS also had to give 
them clear information about the MPPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.Its possible the information BoS gave Mr S1 and Mrs K wasnt as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr S1 and Mrs K 
this MPPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr S2, Mr B and Mrs Ks complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and the 
estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman