DRN-4073748
The complaint
Ms M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc refused a cash deposit into her recently opened 
account and wouldnt tell her what the limit was for a cash deposit. Ms M says that on the 
way home from the bank the money she couldnt deposit was stolen from her bag.
What happened
Ms M opened a Currency Account with HSBC on-line in a local branch. The next day Ms M 
went back into the local branch to pay-in US dollars. HSBC declined to take the full amount 
Ms Me wished to pay into her account but did allow a small deposit. Ms M says she left the 
branch and the remaining US dollars were stolen when she was on her way home. 
Ms M complained that HSBC had treated her unfairly when it declined to take all the cash 
and exposed her to the robbery. HSBC didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint and explained that it 
had complied with its regulatory and statutory requirements and was unable to accept the 
cash deposit without sufficient evidence to support the source of Ms Ms funds.
Ms M brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
Investigators looked into things and thought that HSBC had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and didnt think HSBC had treated Ms M unfairly. Ms M requested 
that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms M will be disappointed, but Ive decided that HSBC didnt treat her 
unfairly in the circumstances of this case. I will now explain why.
Theres no dispute Ms M opened a Currency Account with HSBC on-line in a local branch, 
nor that she went into the local branch the next day to pay in the US dollars. Ms M says she 
was unable to transfer money from her account abroad as there were restrictions in place 
that prevented her from doing this. The terms and conditions of the Currency Account were 
included on-line for Ms M to review and by opening the account Ms M agreed to these terms. 
Although Ms M has referred me to sections of the terms and conditions, the section relating 
to the Currency Account she opened states, Making payments  You cant pay cash into 
your account. The same document also confirms that HSBC can refuse to accept payments 
to its accounts if its acting reasonably. It goes on to provide examples where this may apply 
- one of which is if HSBC reasonably believes accepting that accepting the payment might 
cause it to breach a legal requirement or expose it to action from any government, regulator, 
or law enforcement agency.
HSBC has provided details of its internal processes for accepting cash payments into 
accounts in a foreign currency. This is commercially sensitive information, and I cant provide 
any documents in this regard. HSBC records that it wasnt satisfied the evidence Ms M 
provided on the day she attempted to deposit the US dollars was sufficient to meet any 
regulatory requirement it may have. I cant tell HSBC what it can and cant accept as 
sufficient evidence  that is for HSBC to decide. Taking this into account, I dont think HSBC 
treated Ms M unfairly as it was following its own process and using its discretion based on 
the evidence provided on the day. HSBC did allow Ms M to pay in a much smaller amount of 
US dollars as a gesture of goodwill, but that doesnt mean it acted unfairly by not accepting 
all the cash Ms M wanted to pay in. 
HSBC has since suggested the types of documents it may consider, but Ms M believes 
HSBC should have told her this when she opened her account. I have some empathy with 
Ms M here, but I dont think it would be reasonable for HSBC to explicitly explain what it 
considers sufficient proof of the source of the funds. If HSBC did this, I think it would likely 
expose it to the security risks already mentioned. Its for HSBC to decide its policy in this 
regard and, in the circumstances of this case, I dont believe it acted unfairly in exercising its 
discretion not to accept the full cash deposit
Ms M says that HSBC didnt make it clear what the deposit limit was. That may well be the 
case, but I wouldnt expect HSBC to tell its customers what the limits are as this is 
commercially sensitive and maintains the security HSBC has in place. HSBC accepts that 
one of its members of staff provided a limit figure to Ms M, but it apologised for this and has 
confirmed training has been put in place to stop this happening again.
Ms M asked me to consider that HSBC wouldnt exchange the US dollars to pound sterling 
when she went to the branch. However, I dont think this is unreasonable as HSBC are still 
required to meet its regulatory requirements when accepting cash whatever its currency.
Ms M has confirmed that she put the US dollars she was unable to pay into her account into 
her bag alongside other items, such as her mobile phone. Ms M says that she later realised 
the US dollars were no longer in her bag but noted that her mobile phone and other items 
werent taken. This matter has been reported to the police and I cannot comment any further 
in this regard as this is a criminal matter.
Ms M says she feels HSBC may have discriminated against her given the problems she 
experienced. I can understand why Ms M feels this way but having looked at all the evidence 
I dont think HSBC has done so. Nor do I think HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably for 
the reason Ive provided. I hope that it helps Ms M to know that someone impartial and 
independent has looked into her concerns.
My final decision
Ive decided that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt treat Ms M unfairly when it declined to deposit all 
of the US dollars into her Currency Account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman