DRN-3778645
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank gave 
her misleading information and failed to refund transactions she didnt authorise.
What happened
Mrs M became aware of a series of transactions on her credit card that she didnt recognise. 
These payments had been taken monthly and werent noticed for a few months. Mrs M 
approached M&S about the payments.
M&S agreed to cancel the transactions but the following month the payment left her account 
again. Mrs M got back in touch with M&S who agreed to cancel the card which stopped 
further transactions and they made a partial refund to her.
Mrs M was told that some of the payments were out of time for M&S to challenge. Mrs M 
didnt think this was correct, she thought that she had 13 months to notify M&S about the 
unrecognised transactions. There was a discussion about various time limits about disputes 
and what the terms of her agreement said.
Mrs M complained about M&Ss approach to her problem, but they declined to make any 
further refunds. Mrs M then brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for 
an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who thought that M&S 
had misapplied the relevant legislation and upheld Mrs Ms complaint, recommending that 
she be refunded the transactions that M&S hadnt yet refunded.
As well as the refund, Mrs M wanted M&S to amend their policy to accurately reflect the 
appropriate timescales for account holders to challenge unrecognised transactions. 
M&S didnt respond to the investigators outcome, so the complaint has now been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mrs Ms complaint is that she didnt recognise these recurring transactions  
essentially shes said she didnt authorise them. 
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that M&S can hold Mrs M liable for the 
disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made them 
or authorised them.
 
M&S can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mrs M authorised the 
transactions. Unless M&S can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make 
the payment or to debit Mrs Ms account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. M&S havent provided details about the authentication of these payments, 
which would mean Mrs M is due a refund on that basis alone.
Here Mrs M denied authorising the payments and M&S havent provided any evidence to 
show she did. Mrs Ms testimony about these unrecognised transactions has been clear and 
consistent, so considering all the information provided by both parties, on balance I think its 
more likely than not that Mrs M didnt authorise these transactions.
These payments were made using a credit facility and were classed as distance contracts 
 that is without either party being present, usually made using either the internet/telephone. 
The regulations say that in such cases and where theres no evidence that Mrs M acted 
fraudulently (as is the case here), then shes due a refund. So, M&S are required to refund 
the outstanding disputed transactions that havent already been refunded including any 
associated fees.
Mrs M also wanted M&S to change their policy documents to reflect the appropriate rules. 
My role as an Ombudsman is to deal with individual complaints about how a business has 
treated their customer. Whilst I agree that Mrs M wasnt given the full range of options 
available to her to dispute the transactions, it would be for the regulator to deal with this 
matter if she wished to approach the Financial Conduct Authority about it. 
Putting things right
Overall, Mrs M is due a refund of the outstanding disputed transactions and any related fees 
that shes paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Marks & Spencer Financial Services 
Plc trading as M&S Bank and theyre instructed to settle this complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman