DRN-1397863
The complaint
Mr Y complained that Covea Insurance PLC didnt pay a fair market value for his car when 
he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
He also complains that he didnt get the opportunity to buy the car back  and that his 
personal belongings were destroyed.
What happened
Mr Y made a claim to his insurer, Covea following an accident. Covea said it wasnt 
economical to repair the car and offered to settle his claim by paying him the market value of 
£1,625.
Mr Y thought this was too low and didnt take into account additional features on his car. He 
also said the model he had was rare and he couldnt afford to replace the car on a like for 
like basis, based on what Covea said it would pay. Covea said it had reached its valuation 
fairly and in line with the policy.
Mr Y also complained that he wanted to buy the car back once it was written off, but Covea 
said they were not legally allowed to sell him back the car and had already disposed of it. He 
also had personal belongings that were destroyed.
Our investigator didnt think Covea had acted unreasonably. She checked one of the main 
motor trade guides and found Covea had settled the claim in line with what we would expect 
the value to be.
As Mr Y didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 06 November 2019. This is what I said - 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on the information Ive seen 
from both parties, I currently intend to partly uphold this complaint. Ill explain why -
Vehicle value
The terms and conditions of Mr Ys policy say that if a car has been in an incident and is a 
total loss it will pay up to the market value of the car, less the excess shown.
When calculating the market value, Mr Ys policy states -
In assessing the market value of your car, we may refer to insurance industry recognised 
guides of vehicle values as well as searching for available vehicles being offered for sale to 
the general public.
In the case of Mr Ys vehicle, Coveas engineer made the decision to declare it a Cat B total 
loss, due to the type of damage it sustained in the accident. The engineer also thought the 
cost to repair would be higher than the pre accident value.  Our role isnt to value a car, but to see if an insurer has made a fair offer in line with the 
policys terms and conditions. To do this we use the relevant trade guides. I find these 
persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of likely sales prices. I can see on this 
occasion, Covea has done this when calculating their settlement amount, but could only find 
a valuation in one guide due to the age of the car. The valuation also takes account of any 
extras on a car. I have checked the guide Covea used and it confirms the same price offered 
by Covea. I have also checked against a further guide that we use and the retail price is 
coming up lower than the settlement figure Covea have offered.
We do also consider adverts, but I dont usually find these as persuasive as the guides. This 
is because retailers and private sellers tend to advertise for more than they eventually sell 
the car for. Mr Y hasnt provided any adverts to show that the same model as his are selling 
for more money  but I have researched various selling sites myself and found the same 
model car selling for slightly more but with significantly less mileage. 
On this occasion Covea has offered a settlement amount in line with the higher one found in 
the trade guides. So I think Covea has offered Mr Y a fair price for his car. I appreciate Mr Y 
had spent money on extras for the car. But the trade guides gave a value and can take 
account of some extras being added to the car. The engineer that assessed the claim 
commented that the parts Mr Y replaced were serviceable items for the car rather than 
enhanced its value.
Sale of the vehicle
I understand Mr Y has said that he wanted to buy the car back but Covea had already 
disposed of it. Until Mr Y accepts the settlement amount of the claim, the car still legally 
belongs to him. We would expect an insurer to give an individual the option of buying the car 
back, even if the end result is that the car has to be removed from the road. I understand 
Covea have said that they were not legally allowed to give Mr Y the car back, due to it being 
a Cat B write off, and the DVLA guidance is that they have to destroy it  but this is simply 
not the case. When a car is deemed a Cat B write off it renders the vehicle end of life 
hazardous waste and has to be disposed of in a certain way - so the car does need to be 
taken off of the road, but the onus is on the individual to make sure the car is scrapped, not 
the insurer, unless ownership has changed hands.
Mr Y said he wanted to sell some of the salvageable parts of the car before he scraps it. 
When breaking a Cat B car, its not as easy as simply stripping it and selling the parts. The 
car needs to be recovered and stored in line with local government authority guidelines. As 
Mr Y hasnt been able to evidence he could have broken the car down in line with the 
salvage code, Im satisfied he shouldnt be awarded for the parts that he might have been 
able to sell. Having said that, I am satisfied he should be compensated £500 for the fact this 
option was taken away from him, as this may have been something he would have looked 
further into doing.  
Mr Y has also said that he had valuables in the car at the point it was destroyed. Covea 
disposed of the car and the valuables without telling Mr Y or giving him the opportunity to 
remove his personal belongings. Covea confirmed that Mr Y called in December to ask for 
these back. At this point the car with the valuables had already been released to the salvage 
company, so the insurer was unable to return them to Mr Y. Although Mr Y was given the 
name of the salvage company at this point, he then had trouble finding and getting in contact 
with the company. 
I find in these circumstances Mr Y should have been given the opportunity to get his 
personal belongings back and shouldnt have needed to go to the salvage company to do 
this. Mr Y has provided evidence of the cost to replace these items on a like for like basis, having checked the information online and found similar items, Im satisfied the amount for 
the laptop is in line with the model he lost and these are readily available to buy in a like for 
like condition. The satellite navigation example Mr Y sent was for a brand new unit. Having 
looked online, Ive found used models in good condition for £250.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr Y accepted my provisional decision.
Covea come back with a number of points. It said 
Mr Y didn't make any reference to his unhappiness regarding buying the car back 
once it was written off
Mr Y had the opportunity to remove his personal belongings
There were no personal effects present when the salvage company collected the car
As the car was cat B, it had a duty of care to retain the vehicle and take it off the road 
- unless there were special circumstances to suggest otherwise. The customer would 
also need to provide persuasive evidence to show why they should be allowed to 
retain it. 
If a customer is allowed to retain a cat B vehicle, Covea loses control over what 
happens to the salvage and this could damage its reputation
Mr Y accepted Covea's decision to not allow him to retain the car
Had the vehicle been returned, salvage cancellation fees would have been charged
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea made a number of further submissions, so I'll address these individually. 
Mr Y didn't make any reference to his unhappiness regarding buying the car back once it 
was written off
When Mr Y called Covea, he wasn't made aware his car was due to be scrapped, only that it 
had been handed off to a salvage company. I've listened to the call and Mr Y does mention 
that he would like to keep the car and sell the parts himself, as the amount offered wouldnt 
be enough to buy a car of the same make, model and condition again.  Mr Y is told that he 
won't get the vehicle back as it has Cat B damage, which Mr Y disagrees with. Mr Y asks if 
the car has been scrapped and the advisor doesnt confirm that it has at that point. 
Mr Y had the opportunity to remove his personal belongings
As mentioned in the provisional decision a number of times,  Mr Y wasn't aware when he 
had the accident that his car would end up scrapped. He also mentions on the call with the 
Covea advisor that he had belongings in the car that he wanted to collect. I can understand 
following the accident, that it wasnt Mr Ys first priority to remove his belongings.  This was 
something he highlighted later and Ive no reason to believe these belongings were not in 
the car. 
There were no personal effects present when the salvage company collected the carCovea have sent a number of pictures that it says evidences that no belongings were in the 
car when it was collected by the salvage company. These pictures appear to have been 
taken some time after the accident, as they were taken alongside other accident damaged 
cars. I'm also satisfied that Mr Y mentioned collecting his belongings on the call with the 
Covea advisor, before he was made aware the car had been scrapped, so I find it most likely 
they were in car when it was collected.
As the car was cat B, it had a duty of care to retain the vehicle and take it off the road- 
unless there were special circumstances to suggest otherwise. The customer would also 
need to provide persuasive evidence to show why they should be allowed to retain 
it. Covea also loses control over what happens to the salvage and this could damage its 
reputation
I understand Covea's concerns with consumers disposing of cat B cars themselves - but the 
starting point here is that they didn't legally have the right to scrap Mr Ys car until the claim 
was settled  or had Mr Ys permission. As Mr Y hadn't accepted the settlement amount, the 
ownership of the car was his. I'm also persuaded that Mr Y could have looked into the 
possibility of breaking the car himself and potentially selling the parts on, as he has 
explained to me how he would do so. 
Mr Y accepted Covea's decision to not allow him to retain the car
I haven't seen any evidence that Mr Y agreed for his car to be scrapped. On the call Mr Y 
had with Covea, he asked if he could keep the car in order to sell the parts. At this point he 
was given a number of the salvage company to call and find out if the car had been 
scrapped. 
Had the vehicle been returned, salvage cancellation fees would have been charged
Covea have said that they would have incurred a cancellation fee of £100 to cancel the 
salvage process. Ive explained above why I don't think Covea were in a position to scrap Mr 
Y's car, so it should never have been in a position that salvage costs were incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Covea Insurance Plc to 
Pay Mr Y £500 compensation for not being able to buy his car back and the handling 
of the claim;
Pay £400 to replace the laptop and £250 to replace the satellite navigation on a like 
for like basis; and
Settle the claim in line with the terms of the policy, at the previously offered 
settlement figure of £1625. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2020.
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman