DRN-3553059
The complaint
The trustees of a trust which Ill refer to as K complain that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) unfairly closed Ks accounts. 
What happened
K was an existing customer of NatWest holding both a current and deposit account. In 
January 2022, Mr K received letters from the bank saying it would be closing Ks accounts in 
July 2022. NatWest said this was in line with its current account terms which said the bank 
could close any accounts with 60 days notice. 
Mr K didnt think this was fair. He said K was a different legal entity to himself and therefore 
the bank was using the terms unfairly. He was also unhappy that NatWest had updated its 
terms from December 2021 to include any accounts rather than just any current accounts. 
So he made a made a complaint.
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said that it had made the decision not to offer 
personal trust accounts going forward and had given the trustees six months notice of Ks 
account closure. NatWest also said it was in line with its current account terms which said 
the bank could close any other accounts with 60 days notice. Mr K didnt agree so asked 
this service to look into the trustees complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it was reasonable 
for the bank not to offer personal trust accounts from July because this was a commercial 
decision NatWest was able to make. She also said there were no separate terms for trust 
accounts, so it was reasonable for the bank to use the current account terms and conditions 
to explain this. The investigator also thought NatWest had treated K fairly as it had given the 
trust six months notice of closure  rather than the 60 days it had stated in the terms. 
Mr K didnt agree. He said the investigator hadnt addressed that the trust was a separate 
legal entity to him, and therefore the current account terms shouldnt be used. Mr K asked 
for an ombudsman to look into the trustees complaint and the case has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. 
Mr K is unhappy that NatWest has given notice that Ks accounts are to be closed and he 
feels the terms the bank has used to take this action are incorrect. But I dont agree. I 
acknowledge that Mr K believes the trustees are a different legal entity to K, however unlike 
a company, a trust isnt a separate legal entity to its trustees. The trustees are the legal 
owners of the money held in trust. I acknowledge Mr Ks comments about the difference in 
how taxation is applied to the different accounts he holds in both a personal capacity and as 
a trustee. But Mr K - along with the other trustees  is the legal owner of the money, and any 
difference in how the tax is applied, doesnt have any relevance to this complaint. 
In any event, I dont think NatWest used the current account terms because Mr K held a 
personal account with the bank. I think its more likely this was because Ks trustees also 
held a current account and this document covered a wide range of accounts more generally. 
I say that because the current account terms say that they are in two parts  general and 
account specific. The document then confirms that the general terms apply to all accounts 
unless we tell you otherwise and that the terms of the current account document are all 
general, unless it there is a reference to an account specific term. 
So I think it was reasonable for NatWest to use term 12 which says the bank can close any 
other account by giving at least 60 days notice unless it is a basic or foundation account  
and I havent seen any evidence the trustees account meets the definition of either of these 
types of account. I also havent seen any evidence that the terms and conditions used by the 
bank are restricted for use for the type of account held personally by Mr K, or that there is a 
difference to be applied for different types of legal entity or account holder for this general 
clause. 
I do understand that this is frustrating for Mr K, given what hes said about the beneficiary of 
the trust. However, thats a commercial decision for the bank to make and  provided that 
doing so does not result in unfairness in the circumstances of an individual complaint  not 
one for me to interfere in. Mr K has confirmed that NatWest gave the trustees six months 
notice that the accounts were to be closed  which is significantly more than it was required 
to do under the terms of the accounts. 
Ive also seen that the bank has written to the trustees with reminders and provided links on 
its website to the updated information of what they need to do ahead of the account 
closures. So considering all the circumstances of the complaint, I cant reasonably say 
NatWest has treated the trustees unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ks trustees to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman