DRN-3347525
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Accord Mortgages Limited has charged her an early repayment 
charge. She has said this was incurred due to circumstances outside of her control and feels 
it is unfair it was applied. She also believes she has been charged more than she shouldve 
been. 
What happened
Miss R had a mortgage with Accord that she took out in June 2016. The mortgage was over 
a term of 25 years and had an initial five-year fixed interest rate of 4.29%.
In July 2020, Miss R applied online for a new interest rate product. She chose a two-year 
fixed interest rate of 1.83% as this meant her monthly payments would reduce by over £200 
compared to what she was currently paying. As she was taking a new deal a year before the 
end of her existing interest rate deal, an early repayment charge (ERC) was payable. Miss R 
paid this amount.
In July 2021, Miss R sold her property and repaid her mortgage in full. Miss R has said she 
needed to do this because of anti-social behaviour by her neighbours which had led to her 
feeling distressed, threatened and fearful for her wellbeing.
As the mortgage was repaid before the expiry of fixed interest rate period agreed in July 
2020, a further ERC was charged.
Miss R complained to Accord about this being charged. She said she felt it was unfair that 
this had been applied as she hadnt wanted to sell her property but had felt forced to. She 
also felt that the ERC charged was higher than it shouldve been as she repaid the mortgage 
in July 2021  over a year after shed taken the interest rate deal. But the ERC hadnt 
reduced  which she understood it was due to after a year.
Accord said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said Miss R had taken the new 
interest rate deal in July 2020 on a non-advised basis. It had been clear that an ERC would 
be charged, in relation to her existing mortgage deal, if she redeemed it at that time. And it 
also felt it had been clear that another ERC would be payable if she then redeemed her new 
mortgage before the new fixed rate period ended. 
Regarding how much was charged, Accord said that while Miss R had chosen a two-year 
fixed rate, the actual length of the fixed rate was longer than two years. This was because it 
offered products with a set end date. So, mortgages taken several months apart could have 
the same set end date but wouldnt always run for exactly two years. In Miss Rs case the 
fixed rate she had chosen in July 2020 was due to run until October 2022, which Accord felt 
it had made clear when Miss R took the new deal. This also meant the level of ERC payable 
was not due to reduce until October 2021, which Accord also felt it had made clear in the 
mortgage offer. As Miss R had repaid her mortgage before this, Accord said it had charged 
the correct ERC. 
Unhappy with this response Miss R asked our service to consider her complaint. She still 
didnt feel it was fair that the ERC had been charged. And she said it had not been made 
clear to her during her application that her fixed interest rate was to run until October 2022 or 
that the level of ERC payable would not reduce until October 2021.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt think Accord had acted unfairly 
in applying the ERC. And he felt the amount charged by Accord was in line with the 
agreement made in July 2020.
Miss R asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She reiterated that it 
hadnt been made clear to her when the ERC would reduce, and she said she hadnt seen or 
agreed to the product offer Accord had provided to our service.
As Miss R did not agree with our Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss R originally took her mortgage, she took out a five-year interest rate deal. And 
in July 2020, she took out a new two-year interest rate deal. A condition of both of these 
deals were that, if the mortgage agreement was ended within those fixed rate periods an 
ERC would be applied.
The mortgage agreed in 2016 was ended in 2020 by Miss R taking a new interest rate deal. 
Ive seen an example of the information Miss R wouldve seen online when choosing her 
new deal. Im satisfied it wouldve been indicated to her that an ERC would be payable in 
relation to her existing deal, as this was being ended early. And Ive seen a copy of a letter 
sent to Miss R by Accord in July 2020, before her choice had been confirmed, reiterating that 
an ERC would be payable. So, Im satisfied she knew this would be incurred when taking out 
a new fixed interest rate in 2020. And Im satisfied this ERC was charged in line with the 
terms of the existing mortgage. As Miss R chose to take the new interest rate deal in 2020 
without receiving any advice from Accord, and I think she wouldve been aware when doing 
so an ERC would be charged, I cant reasonably say that Accord has done anything wrong 
by applying this charge.
The mortgage agreed in July 2020 was ended by Miss R in July 2021 when it was repaid in 
full. As it was ended within the new fixed rate period agreed in July 2020, Im satisfied that 
an ERC was again applied correctly by Accord.
Miss R has said circumstances outside of her control led to her having to redeem the 
mortgage. Miss R has been open and honest about why she felt compelled to sell the 
property and move as she was concerned for her safety due to her neighbours. I dont doubt 
this was a difficult decision for Miss R to make and a distressing time. But while I understand 
why she chose to take this action, Im also conscious that Accord wasnt the cause of this. 
So, in the circumstances I cant reasonably require Accord to waive the ERC it applied in 
July 2021.
Miss R has argued that the level of the ERC applied in July 2021 was incorrect. 
Accord has explained that its products run to set end dates, in this case to October 2022, 
rather than for an exact set time period, such as exactly two years from the date of 
completion. This is in line with standard industry practice. And Ive seen a copy of the 
confirmation letter sent to Miss R in July 2020 which said that her new rate was a fixed rate until October 2022. So, Im satisfied that Accord has not made an error when saying the 
interest rate deal agreed, while being described as a two year fixed rate, actually ran for 
slightly longer than two years.
Accord has provided a copy of a product transfer offer from July 2020. The document 
confirms it is in respect of Miss Rs mortgage. And it explains that the ERC payable would be 
2.5% of the outstanding balance until October 2021 and then 1.5% of the outstanding 
balance until October 2022. I think this clearly explained how the ERC worked and how 
much would be payable at specific times if the mortgage was repaid early. As Miss R repaid 
her mortgage in July 2021, Accord charged an ERC of 2.5%. So, Accord appears to have 
acted in line with the details of the product transfer offer. And Ive not been provided any 
evidence from either party to show that Accord, at any stage, told Miss R the ERC payable 
would reduce in July 2021. So, based on the evidence available to me, I think Accord hasnt 
made an error when calculating the ERC it applied.
Miss R has said that she did not see or sign the product transfer offer in question. She has 
said she completed the application online and the information provided was minimal and did 
not set out the way the ERC worked or when it reduced. 
Miss R has said she took the new interest rate in July 2020 because it meant her monthly 
repayments reduced significantly. And she has also said, when she sold the property a year 
later, she hadnt wanted to do so. With this in mind, Im not sure that the ERC reducing in 
October 2021 rather than July 2021 wouldve impacted her decision to take the new interest 
rate deal as this doesnt seem to have been part of her thinking at the time.
Accord has though provided us examples of the screens it says Miss R wouldve seen when 
applying online for a new rate on a non-advised basis. The product selection screen is in the 
same format as an example Miss R has provided. So, on balance Im satisfied that the 
examples provided by Accord are likely in line with what Miss R wouldve seen. Accord has 
evidenced that after selecting a product, before an application couldve proceeded, a deal 
switch summary wouldve been provided, including links to relevant documents. This 
included the mortgage offer it has provided to our service. And in order to proceed, Miss R 
wouldve had to agree to a declaration confirming she had opened and read all of the 
relevant documents and accepted the terms of the mortgage offer. And Accord has shown 
that, according to its systems, Miss R agreed to this declaration. 
Based on the evidence provided Im satisfied, on balance, that the product transfer offer 
including clear information about the ERC and was made available to Miss R when she 
applied online for her new rate in July 2020. Im also satisfied that Miss R agreed to the 
declaration saying she accepted the terms set out in this document  as the new interest 
rate deal wouldnt have been put in place without her doing so. She mayve chosen to 
complete the declaration without reviewing these documents, but I cant hold Accord 
responsible for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman