DRN-3972461
The complaint
Mrs L complains a member of staff at West Bromwich Building Society took £40 from a 
deposit she made. She wants her money back and to make sure the same thing doesnt 
happen to others.
What happened
Mrs L says she went to her usual West Bromwich Building Society branch in October 2022 
to deposit £1,000 in cash. She says she was served by the manager rather than one of the 
usual members of staff, and that shed never seen him serve customers before. She says he 
counted her cash out in front of her and said shed given him £990 rather than £1,000. Mrs L 
says he counted the cash out in front of her another two times and on each occasion said 
shed given him £990. Mrs L says she accepted this  even though she didnt agree  
because other customers were waiting to be served, and this was making her feel 
uncomfortable. Mrs L says she didnt check her passbook before leaving.
Mrs L subsequently checked her passbook and saw the manager had recorded that shed 
paid in £960 rather than £990  she says she did so a day or so later. She complained to 
West Bromwich Building Society saying that there was a £40 discrepancy and that the 
manager had taken her money. She did so in January 2023.
West Bromwich Building Society investigated Mrs Ls complaint and said that it had 
processes in place when it accepted cash deposits, that these processes had been followed 
and that the branch tills had balanced that day. Mrs L was unhappy with West Bromwich 
Building Societys response and so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ls complaint and said that it had followed its 
processes so we couldnt say that it had done anything wrong. Mrs L remained unhappy and 
wanted a decision from an ombudsman. So, Ive looked into her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L has been a customer of West Bromwich Building Society for many years and has a 
very substantial balance in her account. I can see from her statements that over a period of 
a year and a half shes always made round number deposits  Ive seen her make deposits 
of £1,000, £600, £500, and £400. The deposit shes complaining about is, in other words, an 
anomaly, at least based on the evidence Ive seen. The amount missing is also insignificant 
compared to the balance she has in the account. In short, I accept that for Mrs L the £40 
isnt at all important and that shes complained because she genuinely believes that the 
manager tried to see if he could get away with saying she was £10 short and, having done 
so and having succeeded, he took £40 and pocketed it. And that she doesnt want the same 
thing to happen to others.
Having spoken to Mrs L, Im satisfied that she has a number of accounts  including an 
account into which her pension is paid and an account she uses to pay bills  in addition to 
her account with West Bromwich Building Society. Im also satisfied that she withdraws cash 
from the account she uses to pay bills and pays surplus cash into her account with West 
Bromwich Building Society. Im satisfied that she does this because she doesnt use 
computers or online banking. In other words, Im satisfied that she relies on moving cash 
around to make withdrawals and deposits. Im satisfied that Mrs L lets the bank where she 
has her account to pay bills know how much she wants to withdraw  she hands them a note 
with the amount written on it  and that after the bank counts the money out, she places it in 
an envelope and that she keeps that envelope in a safe place from the moment she gets 
home until she goes to her local West Bromwich Building Society branch to pay in surplus 
cash. Im satisfied that she counts the money again to make sure its all there. And that when 
she wants to make a deposit, she hands West Bromwich Building Society a note with the 
amount written on it. Finally, Im satisfied that she uses cash to pay people, and that includes 
paying people who provide her with care.
Having spoken to the case handler who investigated this complaint, Im satisfied that West 
Bromwich Building Society has processes in place to make sure that its customers agree 
how much cash theyre depositing into their accounts before the money is placed into the 
tills. Im also satisfied that there are mechanisms in place that mean any staff member who 
pocketed cash from a customer would know that theyd run a considerable risk of being 
caught, and that anyone caught would be dealt with extremely seriously. I also agree with 
Mrs L that if a member of staff pocketed money before updating a customers passbook and 
placing the cash into the till that there would be no discrepancy when the till was balanced 
later on that day. The member of staff would, however, still run a considerable risk of being 
caught given the other mechanisms in place.
Im satisfied that Mrs L made the deposit shes complaining about in October 2022 and that 
there was a conversation about the fact that she hadnt handed over £1,000. Mrs L says she 
was told she was £10 short on the day. Im satisfied that Mrs L didnt complain that West 
Bromwich Building Society had recorded her as having deposited £960 rather than £990 into 
her account until January 2023. By then West Bromwich Building Society had deleted CCTV 
footage that would have helped establish how much cash shed handed over  deleting 
footage after that long isnt unreasonable.
Im satisfied that the manager  who initially spoke to Mrs L to find out what was wrong  
said that he didnt remember the incident at first but once hed spoken to Mrs L did 
remember counting the cash three times. In other words, Im satisfied that the manager 
remembered there being a dispute about how much cash Mrs L had handed over, but not 
whether the dispute was over £10 or £40.
Both parties versions of events make sense. On the one hand, Mrs L makes large round 
figure cash deposits and wouldnt miss £10 or £40 given the balance in her account  and 
the cash comes from another bank where its already been counted. So, theres no reason to 
doubt her. On the other hand, the manager has never been accused of anything like this 
before and would know that hed risk losing his job  and would likely be caught given the 
mechanisms in place  if he tried to pocket money from a customer.
Mrs L believes that the manager pocketed her money, having got away with pocketing £10. 
West Bromwich Building Society believes that Mrs L is confused.
I dont agree that those are the only two possible explanations here. I believe there are a 
number of possibilities, some of which I have discounted having spoken to both parties. For 
example, I have discounted the possibility that cash got stuck in a counting machine as both 
parties agreed the money was counted by hand. More importantly, on balance, taking all of 
the evidence into account, I dont think the most likely explanation is that the manager pocketed some of Mrs Ls money. I think the most likely explanation is that Mrs L took £960 
to her local branch believing she had £1,000 and that the manager said she was £40 short 
when the money was counted. I can think of a number of reasons why this might have 
happened, none of which it would be fair to make West Bromwich Building Society liable for. 
I do think West Bromwich Building Society could have taken more care to ensure this 
incident was investigated independently, and in a way that was seen to be independent. I 
say that because the manager who was accused of pocketing the money called Mrs L back 
the day after she came into branch to say that everything had been processed correctly. He 
involved someone independent after that  as Mrs L was still unhappy  but I do think it 
would have perhaps been better if hed got them involved earlier. I should add that Im 
satisfied that this incident was ultimately independently investigated, and thoroughly so.
I dont think it would be fair to tell West Bromwich Building Society to do more given 
everything Ive said. I appreciate that this will be huge disappointing to Mrs L who honestly 
believes money had been taken from her, and who genuinely wants to make sure others are 
safe.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask West Bromwich Building Society to do more in 
this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman