DRN-2705763
The complaint
Mr W and Miss W complain about AXA Insurance UK Plc and its agents handling of their 
claim for damage to their home from subsidence under their building insurance policy.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. Mr W 
and Miss W found cracks in their home which they reported to AXA in May 2018. Mr W said 
AXA advised them to get a survey and only then appointed loss adjusters to manage the 
claim. Mr W said over the next two years he had to continually chase the loss adjusters and 
their contractors whilst they stalled and caused delays.
Mr W said that the drains to the front and rear of their home were repaired, but the work was 
delayed by the replacement of claims handlers and contractors. He said hed had to take a 
lot of time off work, had become very stressed and was left with a house smelling of sewage. 
Mr W complained about this to AXA and said the repairs to his house had been delayed.
The repairs and decoration of Mr W and Miss Ws home started at the end of 2019, and AXA 
paid a disturbance allowance of £600 for the disruption of moving out. Mr W wasnt happy 
with the work and complained about damage and poor workmanship and the risk of his 
family being exposed to asbestos dust when they visited their home during the work. AXA 
agreed that the work was poor and a cash settlement for rectifications and decorating was 
agreed.
AXA sent responses to Mr Ws complaints from July 2019 to April 2020. It said its drainage 
contractors had made many visits to their home and the original firm had gone into 
administration and couldnt complete the work and a new firm had to make the investigations 
again. It apologised for the delays and poor repairs and paid a total of £1,750 compensation.
Mr W wasnt happy with AXAs response and brought his complaint to our service. He said 
he was selling his house and was only concerned about the level of compensation AXA had 
paid him which he said wasnt enough for the very poor claims experience. 
Our investigator said AXA should have re-housed Mr Ws family when materials containing 
asbestos were being removed from his home and should pay further compensation of £500 
to Mr W. Both parties disagreed and the complaint was referred to me.
My provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional decision I reached the following conclusions.
Following the parties agreement, Ive considered all of the complaints Mr W and Miss W 
have brought about their claim with AXA. These concern service issues with AXAs handling 
of the claim and poor quality repairs and workmanship carried out on the claim. As Mr W and 
Miss W have now moved house I have concentrated on the compensation they have been 
paid by AXA and whether or not this is fair and reasonable for their experience. 
Mr W and Miss W made a subsidence claim to AXA which was accepted, and investigations 
into the cause began. Mr W feels that because of poor service from AXAs loss adjusters he 
has had to manage their own claim. I have looked closely at the timeline of events and at the 
communications between the parties to see what happened. From start to finish the claim 
took almost two years to complete and was finally resolved with an agreed cash payment so 
that Mr W and Miss W could arrange their own contractors to finish the work.
Much of Mr Ws difficulties and frustration were within a six-month period from the end of last 
summer, to when the repairs began. I sympathise with Mr W and Miss W for the difficulties 
they faced in dealing with their claim. Subsidence claims can take a long time to investigate, 
determine the cause and what work needs to be carried out and for the repairs to be 
completed. Having said that there appears to have been a lack of central management by 
AXA and its agents of the timescales and parties involved. And it was unfortunate that the 
original drainage contractors stopped trading and the investigation work was re-done.
None of the work on the claim followed the estimated timescales and there were many times 
when Mr W had to manage his own claim. He had to deal with problems connected with the 
drains, his toilet, damp, delays and poor repairs. Although this was a sorry state of affairs I 
agree with the investigator that AXAs payment of £1,750 compensation gives a fair 
reflection of the impact of this on Mr W and Miss W. This is consistent with awards we have 
made in similar circumstances and I dont propose to increase this amount.
The investigator proposed additional compensation of £500 for Mr Ws exposure to the risks 
of asbestos during the repairs. Its not clear to me from the business file how serious was the 
risk of asbestos contamination from the repairs to the ceilings in Mr Ws home. However, 
there was some consideration and discussion of this led by AXAs agents. Mr W and his 
family were away from home while this work was carried out and AXA paid them a 
disturbance allowance of £600 towards additional expenditure. 
I dont think AXA, or its contractors were anticipating Mr W would visit his home during the 
repairs and I think it was his wish to check their work that caused him to do so. He may have 
felt he had strong reasons to justify this, but just before the work started he wrote to AXA 
and said hed decided to move his family out as it wouldnt be safe to stay in the house. 
AXA said Mr W was on notice about the risks. I dont know exactly what Mr W was told but 
it appears he was aware of the risks and felt he had no option but to move his family away. 
Mr Ws home was professionally cleaned when the work finished. Im pleased AXA paid Mr 
W a disturbance allowance while his family at this time. I havent seen that a serious mistake 
was made by AXAs contractors and I dont think additional compensation has to be paid.
In response, Mr W said he disagreed about the safety of his home and the disturbance 
allowance. He said AXAs agents told him it would be safe to visit his home during the 
repairs as the rooms would be sealed. He said they werent sealed, and his furniture wasnt 
cleaned. He said he had to challenge AXA and its agents to obtain a relocation allowance so 
he could move his family away during the potentially harmful asbestos removal. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the outcome I reached in my provisional decision 
was fair and reasonable. Mr W said he was advised he could stop by his home during the repairs as protection would 
be in place and he attached emails from AXAs loss adjusters about the repairs and 
relocation allowance. These emails formed part of my consideration of the provisional 
decision. One of them tells him there will be dust during the work, but a professional 
asbestos removal company would ensure the property is safe and he would be sent a 
certificate to show the property is habitable. 
I understand Mr Ws concerns, but he moved his family away from home because he didnt 
feel it was safe for them to stay in the house. So, he was clearly aware of the risks. I havent 
seen any evidence of any specific exposure to asbestos or any ill health effects and so I 
think that AXAs agents are likely to have managed the risks at the property.
Mr W said agreement to pay him relocation allowance of £600 was delayed by AXA. I can 
see he had to argue his case about this, and AXA was reluctant to make the payment as it 
said it was safe for Mr W and family to remain at home, but Im pleased this was 
subsequently agreed and paid to him. 
I sympathise with Mr W and his family for the difficult experience they have endured during 
the long passage of time their home was damaged. However, I think the compensation of 
£1,750 AXA has paid for its poor service and the disturbance allowance means that it has 
addressed the complaint fairly.
Mr W said he hadnt received the safety certificate following completion of the work on his 
home. I do think AXA should ensure Mr W receives the certificate about the work that he 
was promised. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given here and in my provisional decision the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman