DRN-3357822
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited didnt apply payments to her account after she 
agreed a payment plan. Mrs H also complains about the level of contact shes received from 
Vanquis. 
What happened
In January 2021 Mrs H agreed a payment arrangement with Vanquis following some 
financial difficulties. Vanquis agreed to accept £35 a month and stop applying interest to the 
credit card balance. The payment arrangement was agreed via an online chat facility. 
Vanquis gave Mrs H instructions on how to make the payments. It said: 
Our sort code is XX-XX-XX and our account number is XXXXXXXX. Your payment can take 
up to five working days to clear to your Vanquis account. Your reference will be your 
Vanquis Card number. 
A payment was received by Vanquis on 7 January 2021 but didnt include Mrs Hs card 
number. Vanquis says the payment was received from an account thats previously been 
used to pay another credit card for a third party. As no reference number was included, the 
payment wasnt applied to Mrs Hs account. Instead, Vanquis says it was used to pay the 
third partys account in line with previous payments made. 
Vanquis went on to contact Mrs H about arrears on her credit card and she raised a 
complaint. Vanquis issued a final response on 27 May 2021 but didnt uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint. Vanquis said Mrs Hs payments hadnt included the correct reference number and 
that she could reclaim them by contacting her bank. Vanquis also said Mrs H had received 
emails and text messages in line with its terms as payments werent received as agreed. 
Our investigator thought Vanquis had dealt with Mrs Hs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to 
take any further action. Mrs H asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs H is frustrated at whats happened with her Vanquis credit card. I 
can see payments have been made from Mrs Hs bank account and that they included a 
reference. But I have to be fair to both parties and Vanquis has supplied evidence from its 
payment systems. That shows the payments Mrs H made didnt contain her credit card 
number as a reference. I can only look at Vanquis actions in this decision. Whilst I 
understand Mrs H has made payments in line with the payment arrangement agreed in 
January 2021, Im satisfied that when they were received no reference was included. 
The situation is complicated because the account Mrs Hs payments were made from has 
previously been used to make payments to a third partys credit card. As a result, Vanquis 
payment systems applied them to that credit card. Vanquis says it cant refund the payments 
but Mrs H has the option of reclaiming them via her bank. I appreciate there is some 
inconvenience to Mrs H in this approach, but I havent been persuaded the option is 
unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs H has also complained about the level of contact she received from Vanquis despite 
agreeing a payment plan. But, as set out above, Vanquis hasnt been able to apply the 
payments made to Mrs Hs credit card. So Vanquis took steps to contact Mrs H to find out 
why payments hadnt been received as agreed. I understand receiving contact of this nature 
from Vanquis has caused concerns for Mrs H, but I havent found it acted unfairly. 
Our investigator recommended that Mrs H get in contact with her bank to discuss the 
reference number and potential to reclaim he payments made. Thats an option Mrs H may 
wish to consider. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but Im satisfied Vanquis dealt with her complaint fairly so Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman