DRN-3311724
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the renewal price from BUPA Insurance Limited on her private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs S had private medical insurance in place with Bupa for over thirty years. The policy 
renewed annually. 
In 2020 Mrs S received a renewal notice in which she said her premium increased by just 
over 80% from the previous year. 
Unhappy with this Mrs S complained. Bupa said they offered Mrs S alternative options to 
reduce her premium price, but Mrs S said shed found the same cover for cheaper 
elsewhere. So she moved to a different provider. 
Bupa explained they gave Mrs S two months free cover at her last renewal in 2019 as she 
was unhappy. This brought the 2019 renewal price down from £3,397.08 to £2,830.90. So 
this would mean the difference in price between 2019 and 20202 would appear steeper 
because one had a discount applied and the other didnt. 
Mrs S remained unhappy. She raised concerns she has been discriminated against due to 
her age. She feels Bupa doesnt want to cover older customers. 
Bupa said when they calculate premiums, they look at a number of different factors including 
costs of advances in medical technology and claims costs for customers with the same type 
of policy, location and age. They denied age was a discriminatory factor  they said age 
means an increased risk of claiming because people claim more and for more costly things 
as they get older. 
Bupa also reduced Mrs Ss no claims discount from 59% to 45%.  Mrs S didnt think this 
fairly reflected her claims history. Bupa said they paid £1,256.90 in claims in relation to the 
no claims discount, compared to £310 the previous year so thats why Mrs S no claims 
discount was reduced. Bupa said Mrs S membership certificate explained how the value of 
previous claims affects the level of discount they applied at renewal. 
Mrs S remained unhappy, so she referred her to complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and said Bupa had acted fairly when calculating Mrs Ss premium. 
Mrs S disagreed. In summary she said: 
Bupa havent treated her fairly because another provider is charging her less than 
half for the same cover 
Its unfair that younger members get cheaper cover whilst those who are older are 
paying more
She hasnt made expensive claims on the policy, so this level of increase is unjust 
The matter was passed to me to decide. I asked our investigator to ask Bupa for a copy of 
their risk assessment data for age, and the source of that data.  Bupa responded with what 
Id requested, and our investigator reviewed it. 
He went back to Mrs S to explain he had considered this data and was satisfied it was 
reasonable for Bupa to rely on, so he was still of the opinion they had treated her fairly. 
Mrs S remained unhappy. In summary she said Bupa shouldnt be able to get away with 
pricing their elderly customers out of the market. She also asked for statistics to show how 
many new younger clients Bupa have and how many older ones they have lost.
So I now need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
Its up to an insurer to decide how much to charge for accepting certain risks on their 
policies. And the Financial Conduct Authority doesnt regulate the prices an insurer charges 
or the methods used to calculate a price. So I cant make any comment on the way an 
insurer chooses to assess a risk or the premium it charges to cover a certain risk. 
But I can decide whether BUPA has applied their terms fairly and if it has treated Mrs S 
unfairly, compared to others in the same position as her.
When calculating insurance premiums, insurers will take into account a range of factors and 
will consider details about what theyre insuring. Its not uncommon for insurers to give 
different weighting to certain risks and this will be considered as part of its underwriting 
criteria. 
Bupa has also highlighted the additional benefits under the policy such as out-patient 
treatments, diagnostic and surgical cover, along with cancer cover and Mrs S also has 
access to the 24/7 Anytime Healthline.
Mrs S has said her premium increased by 80% but its important to factor in that was based 
on the previous year premium being £2,830.90. But Bupa had given Mrs S a two month 
discount that amounted to £566.18 for that year. The actual premium price she shouldve 
been charged was £3,397.08 for 2019. Bupa has explained they calculate renewal premiums 
based on the actual contract price of the previous years premium - not taking account of any 
discounts applied in the previous year. I dont think this is unreasonable. 
This means Mrs S renewal quote in 2020 for £5117.76 was an increase of £1,720.68 from 
the previous year. 
A contributing factor to this was the reduction made to Mrs S no claims discount. Bupa has 
said no claims discount was reduced from 59% to 45%, but Ms S didnt think this fairly 
reflected her claims history. In the previous policy year, Mrs S made claims to the total value 
of £1,256.90. Her policy certificate sets out that claims over £500 means the no claims 
discount reduced by three levels. I can see Mrs S discount went down from level 10 at 59% 
to level 7 which was 45%. So Bupa havent acted unfairly in the no claims discount that has 
been applied. Bupa also took into account claims costs for customers with the same type of policy, who 
live in same area and are of the same age. Bupa said age has an increased risk of claiming 
as theyve seen people claim more, and for more costly things as they get older. Mrs S feels 
this is age discrimination and unfair. 
Its not the role of this service to make a decision on whether the actions of a business 
amount to discrimination  or whether a business has breached the Equality Act 2010. 
Thats an issue for the Courts to decide. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of each case. And I can take the Equality Act into account, in a case 
like this where it is relevant.
The Equality Act 2010 says its not unlawful for a business to treat someone unfavourably on 
the grounds of their age when providing insurance, as long as a risk assessment has been 
undertaken from information which is relevant to the assessment of risk, and from a source 
on which it is reasonable to rely. 
Bupa explained their risk assessment was an analysis of their recent claims data. It shows 
that between the ages of 65-69, theres an increase in the cost of the average claim. Im 
satisfied this information was relevant to the assessment of risk for age and from a source 
which was reasonable to rely upon. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Bupa to 
increase Mrs S premium in line with this. Bupa also provided industry data from the Office 
for Budget Responsibility in relation to health care spending, that also supports the cost of 
the average claim increases the older someone is in Mrs S age band. 
Im pleased to see Mrs S was able to secure cover elsewhere. But Im unable to compare 
the premium prices from two different insurers. Each insurer is entitled to set out how it 
calculates a policy premium and its likely each policy will have differences in the cover it 
provides. So, whilst I appreciate Mrs S may have a different policy for a reduced premium, 
this in itself does not indicate that BUPA has acted unfairly in its policy premium calculation.
I know this will be a disappointing outcome for Mrs S.  I understand her frustrations and 
upset at the sudden increase after being a customer for so long. She has requested 
additional statistics on Bupas new customers against the number of elderly customers that 
are forced to leave. This isnt something I can provide, and it wasnt relevant to my 
considerations in this case. As explained, my role is to determine if Bupa calculated risk 
based on relevant and reliable information. 
Overall, although I appreciate why Mrs S feels the premium increase was unfair, Im satisfied 
Bupa hasnt made any errors or treated her unfairly. Bupa can increase premiums based on 
the risk they are prepared to take.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman