DRN-2840758
The complaint
Mr N complains that Zenith Insurance Plc (Zenith) unfairly avoided his motor insurance due 
to misrepresentation.
 
What happened
In June 2019 Mr N contacted Zenith after hed been involved in an accident. Whilst going 
through security checks the occupation listed on the insurance policy was found to be 
incorrect.
Mr N had changed his occupation from car valet to fast food chef. He accepted hed made 
an honest mistake when he completed his insurance purchase. He explained that his 
previous occupation details had been automatically filled in on the new insurance application 
form.
Mr N says that his use of his car hasnt changed since he changed jobs. He doesnt use it for 
fast food deliveries or any other work activities. 
Zenith told Mr N that they dont offer insurance to fast food workers. They said that if hed 
stated that he worked in fast food when he requested insurance in February 2019 it wouldve 
been denied.
So Zenith avoided (cancelled as if it had never existed) Mr Ns motor insurance policy on 4 
September 2019. Mr N says he didnt receive the letter from Zenith informing him that his 
policy had been avoided until two days after the policy was cancelled. So he wouldve driven 
without insurance over that period. They arranged for the premium to be returned.
Mr N says that he now has to pay much more for his motor insurance due to the avoidance.
He says he feels Zenith think he lied about his occupation to get motor insurance, when in 
fact, he simply made a mistake.
So Mr N complained to Zenith. They didnt uphold his complaint. They said a fast food 
proprietor is not an acceptable occupation under this policy criteria and therefore we had to 
void the policy. They went on to say: Had we have known your correct occupation, we 
would not have offered you the policy and therefore we are unable to overturn our decision. 
They confirmed that they felt Mr N had made the mistake accidentally.
Unhappy with their response, Mr N brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
upheld his complaint. She felt that Zenith hadnt understood the true nature of Mr Ns
work. And that theyd categorised it incorrectly, resulting in the insurance policy being 
avoided. She said that Zenith needed to confirm that they still wouldve avoided Mr Ns policy 
if theyd categorised his occupation correctly as a fast food wholesaler. If they couldnt do 
that, she wanted Zenith to confirm that if Mr Ns occupation had been categorised correctly 
the policy wouldve been allowed to continue.
 
If new evidence confirmed that Zenith shouldnt have avoided Mr Ns policy she felt that 
Zenith should remove all records and database entries showing that the policy was avoided 
because of careless misrepresentation. She also felt that Zenith should pay Mr N the 
difference between what an appropriate Zenith insurance policy wouldve cost based on his 
actual occupation, and the cost of Mr Ns new insurance policy for September 2019 to 
August 2020. 
Zenith didnt agree with our investigator. They felt theyd acted correctly on the information 
they had. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this on 30 March 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I intend to uphold this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show that they wouldve offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. 
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. If the misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless, and the insurer can show that they wouldnt have offered the policy at 
all, or that they would only have offered it on different terms, theyre entitled to avoid the 
consumers policy. They may also keep the premiums paid. If the misrepresentation was 
careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show that they wouldnt have offered the 
policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. But they should also return the premiums 
paid. 
When an insurer claims that a consumer misrepresented information thats important to the 
insurer, we check whether the insurer asked the consumer a clear question about that 
information when they took out the policy. 
Zenith claimed that Mr N carelessly misrepresented his occupation. Zenith dont provide 
insurance for fast food proprietors. So, if theyd known Mr N was a fast food proprietor, they 
wouldnt have insured him at all. And theyve shown us their underwriting criteria to confirm 
this. Theyve also returned the premiums paid.
Zenith said that, even if there was a mistake with the occupation at the application stage, 
theyd asked Mr N to check his policy documents carefully afterwards, and theyd made it 
clear that if the information was incorrect it could affect his policys validity. 
Zenith have also shown us that the application form Mr N completed on a comparison site 
asked the questions: What job do you do? and What industry do you work in? On the face 
of it these are clear questions. But when I completed the same form online on the 
comparison website I noted that once Fast food has been input into the What job do you 
do? section, the only options available are fast food delivery driver and fast food proprietor. 
Zenith doesnt offer insurance for either of these roles. Zenith have said that when they reviewed their decision to avoid Mr Ns policy, they could 
see that Mr N hadnt told them that his work was actually in wholesale. They also point out 
that the accounts for his business are headed Fast food. So they feel theyve acted 
correctly up to this point. But they went on to say that If the Insured is now advising that that 
he works in wholesale, we would require further information for our Underwriters to review, 
such as what the Insured does and what arrangement he has with these fast food outlets.
Our investigator asked Mr N questions about his occupation. He confirmed that he worked 
as a chef, producing raw food that he sells to restaurants and supermarkets. He confirmed 
that he doesnt operate a takeaway business. Nor does he have premises where he cooks 
food to order for either delivery or takeaway. Im persuaded by this that Mr Ns occupation 
would be more accurately described as wholesaler. And if he made something other than 
food from his home I dont think Zeniths underwriting criteria wouldve excluded him. 
All we expect is that insurers ask clear questions so that they can fairly assess the risk 
theyre being asked to take on. Taking all of the above evidence together, I dont think Zenith 
were unfair when they decided that Mr N failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation about his occupation when he took out the policy. But I do consider that 
theyve been unfair in how theyve treated him afterwards.
Zenith have said that theyve asked Mr N for an explanation regarding his fast food
occupation and at no point was the fact that he worked in wholesale mentioned. They said 
that Mr N hasnt provided sufficient evidence to confirm he works in wholesale. So they still 
feel that he works in fast food. But Ive no evidence that theyve asked him the right 
questions about his occupation. And from the information Mr Ns shared with this service he 
seems to work in wholesale. So Im not persuaded theyve assessed the risk of insuring him 
fairly. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Mr N isnt a fast food proprietor. The food he prepares isnt 
ready to eat. Im not persuaded that Zenith have shown us evidence from their underwriting 
criteria that if Mr N hadnt made the misrepresentation, they wouldnt have offered him 
insurance at all. So Im not satisfied that Mr Ns misrepresentation was a qualifying 
misrepresentation as required by CIDRA. And Im not persuaded that his insurance 
shouldve been avoided. So I dont consider that Zenith have acted fairly in avoiding Mr Ns 
insurance policy. 
I intend to require Zenith Insurance Plc to:
remove any record of the policy having been avoided from any internal or external 
databases. 
Provide Mr N with a letter saying that the avoidance was made in error and is now 
removed so that he can present this to his new insurers to ask for a refund of any 
additional premium hes paid. If the insurers decline to do this, Zenith should refund 
Mr N the additional premiums, on provision of reasonable evidence of this.
Pay Mr N £100 for the distress and inconvenience of leaving him uninsured for two 
days and for having paid more than he should have for insurance since September 
2019.
Response to my provisional decision
Zenith didnt agree with my provisional decision. They maintained that they believe that Mr N 
works as a fast food proprietor and not in wholesale. They sent some photos theyd found 
online that they believed proved that Mr N did in fact own a fast food business.
 The photos showed hot food on a grill and a man holding a cooked burger. So I can see why 
Zenith felt that they proved Mr N was a fast food proprietor. 
So we asked Mr N about the photos. He said that they showed an old company hed run for 
around six weeks back in 2017. The company hadnt operated for a number of years.
Mr N said that he had owned a static catering trailer then. It was a trailer with no engine.  So 
it needed to be towed when moving it from one location to other. He said hed bought the 
trailer in early 2015 but had since sold it. 
Mr N provided evidence that neither of the last two cars hed owned and insured with Zenith 
had a tow bar. So Im satisfied that the cars hed insured with them couldnt have been used 
to pull the catering trailer.
Mr N also provided evidence showing that Zenith had previously insured him when hed 
reported his job as Catering Staff. 
Mr N was unable to access online the photos Zenith had provided. He said hed deactivated 
the online account hed used when he sold the trailer so no longer had access to them. But 
he confirmed that they didnt reflect the current work he does.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zenith provided photos they felt proved Mr N was working as a fast food proprietor. But Mr N 
has shown us evidence that those photos were from a brief period in 2017 and that they no 
longer reflect the work he does. 
Mr N has also shown that he couldnt have used the last two cars he insured with Zenith to 
pull a trailer. So Im satisfied that he wasnt working as a fast food proprietor in 2019 when 
Zenith cancelled his insurance. 
So I remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I require Zenith Insurance Plc to do the following:
remove any record of the policy having been avoided from any internal or external 
databases. 
Provide Mr N with a letter saying that the avoidance was made in error and is now 
removed so that he can present this to his new insurers to ask for a refund of any 
additional premium hes paid. If the insurers decline to do this, Zenith Insurance Plc 
should refund Mr N the additional premiums, on provision of reasonable evidence of 
this.
Pay Mr N £100 for the distress and inconvenience of leaving him uninsured for two 
days and for having paid more than he should have for insurance since September 
2019.
Zenith Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
them Mr N accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ns complaint.  I require Zenith Insurance Plc to 
take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman