DRN-3577444
The complaint
Mr T complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (Shop Direct) 
irresponsibly gave him a running account credit facility that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 6 January 2018, Mr T applied for a credit account with Shop Direct. He was given an 
initial credit limit of £600. The credit limit was increased four times during the life of the 
account, reaching £3000 in October 2019. Shop Direct told us that in 2020 the account 
had a sustained period of arrears and the account was passed to an external debt 
collection agency later that year. 
In 2021, Mr T complained to Shop Direct to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr T didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. 
Shop Direct responded to Mr Ts complaint in its final response letter dated 29 July 2021. In 
that letter, Shop Direct agreed with Mr T to a point. Shop Direct felt the initial credit and the 
credit increases to October 2018 when the credit limit reached £1700 were reasonable 
lending. Shop Direct upheld the complaint from June 2019 onwards, when the credit limit 
was increased from £1,700 to £2,700. Mr T does not accept this as a fair outcome as he 
thinks the earlier lending was unreasonable. It is, therefore, my task to consider whether Mr 
T is entitled to more redress than Shop Direct has already offered him. Having considered 
all the submissions made in this case, I dont think he is. I explain why I say that below.   
It is Mr Ts complaint that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mr T has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question. Shop Direct has explained that it carried 
out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer and considered Mr Ts management of the account with regard to credit limit increases. 
Its possible that Shop Direct failed to make adequate checks before providing Mr T with 
credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Shop Direct to 
think the initial credit limit was unaffordable. 
I say this because the early credit limits up to and including the increase to £1700 in 
October 2018, were relatively modest and the maximum monthly payments would have 
been relatively modest. And Mr Ts management of his account throughout the increases 
to all the credit limits was largely very good. And Mr T was not in the habit of using the full 
credit limit available to him. 
I have also considered the credit report that Mr T has provided us. This suggests that 
throughout the earlier credit increases, there was no recent adverse information on Mr Ts 
credit file. There is no compelling evidence from the credit report that Mr Ts finances were 
being poorly managed. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that a more thorough affordability check would have led Shop Direct to 
think that the credit limit it provided Mr T before June 2019 was unreasonable. So, I do not 
think that Mr T should receive more redress from Shop Direct than he has been offered 
already. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint as I dont think Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited need do any more than they have already offered to do in their 
final response letter dated 29 July 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman