DRN-4524149
The complaint
Mr I has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) registered a marker 
against him at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
In spring 2022, Mr I received some funds into his Clydesdale account, which he then passed 
onto a cryptocurrency exchange.
The funds were reported as fraudulent. Clydesdale closed Mr Is account and registered a 
marker against him at CIFAS.
Mr I explained hed seen an advert on social media promising an incentive for signing up to 
the crypto exchange and putting some funds through it. The advertiser explained there was 
a staking process involved with a threshold that, if met, meant the exchange would pay out a 
bonus that theyd share with Mr I. Mr I received the funds and passed them on via the crypto 
exchange as instructed, but he didnt receive the bonus. He later realised hed been used as 
a middleman when the bank closed his account for fraud. He accepted hed been gullible.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr I appealed, so the complaints been passed 
to me to decide. I asked both sides for further information.
I sent Mr I and Clydesdale a provisional decision on 18 December 2023, to explain why 
I thought the marker should be removed. In that decision, I said:
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Clydesdale 
needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern. It needs to be able to show that it had 
reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been committed or 
attempted, backed up by evidence which would support it being reported to the authorities.
Clydesdale received an official fraud report, and I can understand why it had serious 
concerns about what Mr I had done. I need to keep in mind that at that point, Clydesdale 
didnt have the evidence which Mr I has since provided.
However, since then Mr I has provided screenshots he took of his chat with the fraudster, 
and these back up his testimony. It looks like this was presented to Mr I as a way to earn 
bonuses from helping them with crypto investing, and I cant see that it was said or implied 
that Mr I would be aiding in fraud. For example, the fraudster talked about using referral 
codes, affiliate links, and staking activity to make money for Mr I despite Mr I not investing 
his own capital, and referred to the provided money as coming from us  not from fraud 
victims or any other third party. Mr I referred to the matter as investing, asked about the 
exchanges bonus threshold level, and tried to check that the person he was speaking to 
was legitimate.
Mr Is testimony about what happened with the fraudster has been clear, consistent, and 
plausible, fits with known methods of how fraudsters may recruit unwitting money mules, and 
is substantiated by his messages with the fraudster.
As far as I can see, Mr I did not benefit from the fraud himself. He sent screenshots of his 
activity on the crypto account. From what I can see, he received and sent on the funds as 
instructed, and then his balance was 0. 
Mr Is Clydesdale account was long-standing and was used for normal activity before the 
fraud. So I dont think this was a case of an account being opened for the purposes of fraud.
From what Ive found, the person Mr I was speaking to was an individual previously 
convicted for taking part in organised crime. I wouldnt expect Mr I to have known that at the 
time, but this all strongly suggests Mr I was taken advantage of by an experienced criminal.
Its not uncommon for people to be used as unwitting money mules, and I can see how 
someone inexperienced might believe its legitimate to move money in this way for crypto 
investing or bonus schemes. CIFAS has guidance for cases such as this, where it explains 
that such markers should be applied to people who act as money mules knowingly and 
willingly  but not to people who did so unwittingly. And given the new evidence I have, I find 
it's most likely that Mr I was an unwitting money mule.
So based on what Ive seen so far, I currently think Clydesdale should remove the marker.
Ive also considered whether Clydesdale should pay Mr I compensation. But I can see that 
Mr I previously chose not to provide his evidence  he even told our investigator at first that 
he was unable to. So I cant say that Clydesdale acted unreasonably based on what it knew 
at the time  it didnt have the evidence which I now have. So I dont plan to award any 
further compensation here  I currently think that Clydesdale should just remove the 
disputed marker now.
Both sides replied early. Clydesdale agreed that the marker should be removed based on 
the new evidence. Mr I provided some further points, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I explained that the marker had caused him serious issues, including losing a job offer 
and suffering in his mental health. Im grateful to Mr I for being open and candid with us 
about how this matter affected him, and I have taken into account everything hes sent.
If, for example, back in 2022 Clydesdale had been given the evidence which Mr I has now 
sent, and had then added the marker anyway, then I would have considered compensation. 
But he didnt send it to them, or our service, until very recently. Back in 2022, Clydesdale did 
tell Mr I that they were closing his account due to fraud, and they discussed the matter with 
him, but he didnt give them any of this evidence. Indeed, he then told our investigator that 
he didnt have any such evidence. The evidence in question only came to light in the last few 
weeks. So Clydesdale didnt have it at the time, and based on the above I cannot fairly 
conclude that Mr I was planning to send it to them at the time.Based on what Clydesdale knew at the time, it doesnt seem particularly unreasonable for 
them to have added this marker. They had substantial evidence that Mr I had received and 
passed on fraudulent funds, and it wouldve looked like he was the main beneficiary of the 
fraud given that he sent the funds on to another account of his. Im afraid Mr I does also bear 
some level of responsibility for letting himself get involved in fraud and not sufficiently looking 
into what he was really doing.
So while I do sympathise with Mr Is situation, I have not found sufficient reason to tell 
Clydesdale to pay him compensation here. I think that they should simply remove the CIFAS 
marker in dispute, as they have now agreed to do.
My final decision
I direct Clydesdale Bank Plc to remove the CIFAS marker in dispute. I do not make any 
further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman