DRN-3493771
The complaint
Miss A complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) unfairly 
registered a default on her credit file. 
What happened
Miss A says in November 2020 she telephoned Barclays to inform them she was 
experiencing financial difficulties. Miss A says the agent from Barclays could not be heard 
properly because of background noise, but it was agreed in that telephone call she didnt 
need to make the December 2020 payment to her credit card account. Miss A says she 
made a payment which brought her credit card account up to date in January 2021 as 
agreed, but despite this Barclays defaulted her and registered a default on her credit file. 
Miss A says she didnt receive any communications from Barclays to say she needed to 
contact them prior to her making the payment in January 2021.
Miss A says she complained to Barclays and while it accepted the phone call was unclear, it 
only offered £50 by way of compensation and wouldnt agree to remove the default on her 
credit file. Miss A says the default has damaged her credit file and affected her ability to re-
mortgage and obtain credit elsewhere. Miss A wants Barclaycard to remove the default from 
her credit file and doesnt feel the £50 compensation it offered, goes far enough. 
Barclays says it was correct when it issued the default notice to Miss A when it did and 
offered to review her situation on receipt of a completed income and expenditure form. 
Barclays says it accepts the phone call in November 2020 could have been better dealt with 
and have offered Miss A £50 by way of compensation for that. Barclays says it acted 
appropriately when it issued the default notice to Miss A and registered this with the credit 
reference agencies. Barclays says Miss A hadnt contacted them to discuss matters as it 
asked, and despite her making a payment to her credit card account it had acted fairly here.
Miss A wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Miss As complaint. The 
investigator says while Barclays acted correctly when it issued the default notice in 
November 2020, given Miss A had made a payment to her credit card account in good time, 
it acted unfairly when it registered the default with the credit reference agencies. The 
investigator felt Miss A would have continued to pay her minimum monthly payments had 
she not been defaulted. The investigator asked Barclays to remove the default from Miss As 
credit file and pay her the £50 it had offered, for the poor service she had received during the 
telephone call made in November 2020. 
Barclays accepted the investigators view, but Miss A didnt agree and asked for the matter 
to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Miss As complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Miss A to learn her credit file had been 
marked with a default, despite the fact she had made a payment to her credit card account, 
as she had  agreed with Barclays. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays acted fairly when it registered the 
default on Miss As credit file when it did and if compensation is warranted here.  
The first thing to say is this happened at the time of the Covid pandemic which affected both 
customers and businesses alike. 
Miss As complaint centres around the fact when she telephoned Barclays in November 
2020 explaining her difficult financial position, the member of staff was working from home 
with distracting background noises, making it hard to understand what was said. 
Miss A says in that telephone call Barclays agreed with her that she could miss the 
December 2020 monthly payment and continue from January 2021, but no other support 
was offered to her. Miss A says she brought her credit card account up to date in mid-
January 2021, with help from her family but despite this Barclays defaulted her and 
registered the default on her credit file because in part, she hadnt contacted them about her 
credit card account. Miss A says she did attempt to make payments to her credit card 
account, but Barclays were unable to tell her how to do this. 
Barclays have accepted the phone call in November 2020 could have been handled better 
and offered Miss A £50 by way of an apology. Its worth saying here that businesses had 
needed to make changes to its operations during the Covid pandemic and many banks like 
Barclays would have had its staff taking telephone calls from home. So here its 
understandable to some extent, that a normal telephony service wouldnt be in place and 
domestic background noises might have been heard on occasions. 
Like the investigator, I can see that although Barclays issued a default notice and may have 
been entitled to do so given the previous arrears on Miss As credit card account, where it 
has been at fault is Miss A did comply with that default notice, when she paid sufficient funds 
into her credit card account in January 2021, some two weeks before the expiry of the 
notice. While a copy of the telephone call in November 2020 isnt available, the file notes 
provided to this service show Miss A had explained she was in financial difficulty and 
although the notes arent entirely clear, an agreement had been put in place at that time. 
Its fair to say the sending of the default notice was poorly timed here, given an arrangement 
had been put in place. So, even though a covering note to the default notice had asked Miss 
A to contact Barclays, given she had already discussed this with them at the same time, its 
not unreasonable to assume Miss A had thought there was no further action needed. I also 
take the view as Miss A had made her credit card account up to date, simply because she 
failed to telephone Barclays, that wasnt sufficient reason for it to go ahead and register the 
default on her credit file.
What is important here, is following the investigators view, Barclays have agreed to remove 
the default on Miss As credit file and not a notice of correction as she thinks, so with that in 
mind I am satisfied Barclays have put matters right here and as I would expect to see.
Miss A feels that Barclays should now pay her for the inconvenience and trouble she has gone through as a result of the default being registered on her credit file, because she says it 
had financial implications for her. In particular she hasnt been able to re-mortgage her 
property or at a preferential interest rate. 
So, I am left to consider if Barclays should now pay Miss A, a further compensation payment 
in addition to the £50 it has already offered for the poor service during the telephone call, in 
November 2020. 
I understand the points Miss A raises here, but she hasnt been able to provide this service 
with any evidence to show the sole reason for her not being able to re-mortgage on 
favourable terms was due to the default on her credit file. In any event its fair to say that 
lenders consider various other criteria before it sets its pricing or agreement to provide any 
funding. 
Although Miss A feels she should be financially compensated here, its worth saying that 
Barclays havent charged her any interest on her credit card account since November 2020 
and arent looking to back date/charge this now. With that in mind and given Barclays have 
now agreed to remove the default against Miss A, I am satisfied that is sufficient redress 
here. 
While Miss A may not agree, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome. 
Putting things right
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to remove the default registered on 
Miss As credit file and pay her the £50 it offered for the poor service it provided. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to remove the default registered on 
Miss As credit file and pay her the £50 it offered for the poor service it provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman