DRN-3515732
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with the service she received from Santander UK Plc surrounding her 
provision of documents to Santander and Santanders administration of those documents 
including a request for further information.
What happened
Miss L took personal documents into a Santander branch which were to be faxed by that 
branch to a Santander office to support an account opening application Miss L had made. 
Miss L later received a letter from the Santander office advising that some of the faxed 
documents hadnt been readable and so couldnt be used to support her application and 
requested that Miss L arrange for the documents to be re-sent. This letter also included a 
return of the documents that had been received, but Miss L noticed that some of the 
documents shed arranged to be faxed over werent included and she felt that these had 
been lost by Santander. Miss L wasnt happy about this, or with the delays she felt were 
being caused to her application, so she raised a complaint.
Additionally, when Miss Ls account was successfully opened, she began to receive letters 
from Santander requesting further information because of her status as having been born 
overseas. However, as a UK citizen, Miss L didnt feel that these letters were applicable to 
her and that they were threatening in tone. So, she added these points to her complaint.
Santander looked at Miss Ls complaint. They confirmed that not all the required documents 
had been successfully faxed from the branch to the required office, and they also confirmed 
that there hadnt been any documents lost and that the reason why the letter to Miss L hadnt 
included all the documents that had been sent was because it was those missing documents 
that hadnt been successfully received. 
Santander also felt that because one of the documents that Miss L had provided was a 
foreign identity document in her name that the letters shed received requesting further 
information had been valid, and they didnt feel that these letters had been threatening.
However, Santander acknowledged that the documents should have been faxed correctly to 
their office in the first instance, and so they apologised to Miss L for this. Santander also 
made a payment of £150 compensation to Miss L for the service that shed received, 
although this payment was also in respect to further points of complaint raised by Miss L 
which arent under consideration here.
Miss L wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Santanders 
response to Miss Ls complaint already represented a fair and reasonable response to what 
had happened, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I note that Miss L has made several detailed submissions to this service. Id 
like to thank Miss L for making those submissions, and I hope she doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
feel are the key aspects of this complaint  in line with this services role as a dispute 
resolution service. 
As such, if Miss L notices that I havent responded to a specific point that shes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken that I havent read and considered that point. Indeed, I can confirm that 
Ive read and considered all submissions provided to this service by both Miss L and 
Santander. Instead, it should be taken that I have read and considered that point, but that I 
dont feel it necessary to address that point directly in this letter in order to arrive at what I 
feel is a fair outcome.
It also must be noted that Miss L has further points of complaint with Santander, beyond 
those described in the preceding section, and that those further points of complaint are being 
considered by this service separately. Accordingly, my decision here only relates to the 
points of complaint described in the section above.
The first of these points is that Santander have lost or misplaced some of the documents 
faxed to its office following Miss L taking those documents to a Santander branch from 
where they were faxed. And one reason Miss L believes this was the case was because 
when she received a letter from Santander returning the fax copies of the documents too 
her, some of the documents that shed taken into branch were missing.
I can appreciate Miss Ls concerns here, but its notable that the letter that Santander sent to 
Miss L enclosing the documents included the following (with underlining added by me):
Unfortunately, as some of the information cannot be read, we regret we must ask 
you to provide clearer copies. If you have provided multiple documents, were 
returning all the copies back to you, including those which are legible, and would ask 
that you re-submit all required documents.
While I accept that the wording of the above paragraph is a little unclear, my reading of this 
paragraph is that Santander were only returning the faxed documents received that were 
legible, i.e. readable, and that they werent returning copies of all faxed pages received, 
which would have also included illegible documents or received blank pages.
Indeed, the opening sentence of the above paragraph confirms that Santander didnt receive 
a full suite of legible faxed documents, and that by returning to Miss L all the documents that 
were legible, they were in effect informing Miss L of the documents that hadnt been received 
in a legible form  the documents that werent returned in the letter. Although it must also be 
noted that Santander then go on to request that Miss L resend all the previously faxed 
documents to them.
Additionally, while Santander have subsequently confirmed that it was indeed the case that 
some of the faxed documents received were received as blank pages and so werent 
included in the documents returned to Miss L, its very clear that when Miss L contacted 
Santander and explained her concerns that Santander may have lost personal information 
that shed provided to them, she didnt receive an accurate explanation as to what had happened in the first instance. And I can understand why Miss L may not have had full faith 
in Santanders later explanations because of this.
But while I can appreciate how Miss L might have her concerns, it seems evident from the 
information available to me that Santander didnt in all likelihood receive and then lose some 
of Miss Ls personal information, but rather that they didnt receive the documents Miss L is 
concerned about at their office in the first instance, because for whatever reason the fax 
process whereby those documents were sent didnt complete correctly.
However, while Im satisfied that as per the remit of this service that Santander cant 
reasonably be said to have acted unfairly towards Miss L here as Miss L believes, the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) is more appropriately placed than this service to 
consider matters concerning potential loss of data  such as Miss L contends took place 
here. As such, I can only refer Miss L to the ICO should she wish to pursue this aspect of her 
complaint further.
Im also aware that Miss L feels that because the documents werent faxed correctly by 
Santander to their office, that her account opening was delayed as a result. However, it must 
be noted that some of the documents that Miss L did supply werent acceptable by 
Santander, and as such Im satisfied that Miss Ls account opening would have been 
delayed even had the full suite of documents been received by Santanders office when they 
first sent, because Santander would always have had to have returned to Miss L because of 
the documents shed sent that werent acceptable to them.
Regarding the second aspect of Miss Ls complaint  that Santanders further enquiries 
following the initial provision of documents by Miss L were unwarranted, and that Miss L 
found the team making those further enquiries to be threatening  its notable that while Miss 
L is a UK citizen and holds a UK passport, she was born overseas and that one of the 
documents provided to Santander was a copy of Miss Ls overseas passport. 
It's also notable that the letters to which Miss refers were sent by Santander in compliance 
with the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FACTA), which generally requires 
businesses such as Santander to take steps to confirm whether applicant customers have 
tax obligations overseas. 
As such, given the oversea passport which Santander had been provided with, I dont feel 
that Santander were acting unfairly or unreasonably by making the further enquiries that they 
did. And while I can understand why Miss L might have found some of the language used in 
the letters sent by Santander to have been threatening, Santander had an obligation within 
those letters to have made Miss L aware of the potential consequences of her not 
responding in a timely manner to those further enquiries.
Finally, I note that Santander made a payment of £150 to Miss L as compensation for the 
standard of service shed received from them. This included that Miss L hadnt been given 
accurate information by Santander in the first instance as to why the documents she was 
concerned about hadnt been returned to her, although notably it was also in consideration of 
other aspects of Miss Ls wider complaint with Santander not under consideration here.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one person not being considered as such by someone else. But even 
accepting that the £150 that Santander have already paid to Miss L was also in 
consideration of other aspects of her wider complaint, I dont feel that any instruction for 
Santander to make a further payment of compensation to Miss L for the inaccurate 
information she was initially given is merited in this instance. This is because if it had been the case that Santander hadnt paid any compensation Miss L, 
then I most likely would have instructed Santander to have paid an amount lower than £150 
to Miss L as compensation for the trouble and upset that shes incurred solely as a result of 
being initially given inaccurate information. And because of this I feel that the compensation 
payment that Miss L has already received, while only partially applicable to this aspect of her 
complaint, already provides fair compensation for what happened in that regard.
All of which means that I dont feel that Santander have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Miss L here regarding either aspect of Miss Ls complaint under consideration here. 
And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to 
take any further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome Miss L was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman