DRN-2450033
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about the way esure Insurance Limited has handled a claim he made on 
his car insurance policy. In particular hes unhappy with the amount its valued his car.
What happened
Mr Hs car was involved in a non-fault accident. esure arranged for his car to go to its 
salvage agent following the accident. Unfortunately the car suffered more damage while with 
the salvage agent. The salvage agent sent a number of photos of all the damage to the car. 
esure then decided to send the car to one of its approved repairers for a further inspection.
Mr H says esure initially told him by text message it was intending to repair the car. But 
esure later contacted him to say it was going to write the car off. So it said it would settle the 
claim by paying the cars market value, less the excess. And it valued the car at £5,800. 
Mr H didnt agree with the valuation as he thought the value was closer to £7,000. And he 
said he couldnt replace it for the amount esure said the car was worth. And he said he had a 
number of adverts which he thought supported that.
esure still thought its valuation was fair. So Mr H referred his complaint to this service. He 
thought esure would have repaired his car, but for the additional damage caused by the 
salvage agent. 
I issued a provisional decision in November 2020 not upholding this complaint. And I said 
the following:
Ive considered what Mr H has told us and listened to the telephone calls hes had with 
esure to fully understand the crux of his complaint. Theres no dispute the salvage agent 
caused further damage, but it seems to me that Mr H is primarily unhappy with the value 
esure has put on this car. Although I have also considered his unhappiness that esure 
initially said it would repair his car.
Value of the car
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Hs policy, esure has to pay him the market value of the car, 
less his excess.
The market value is defined as the amount you [Mr H] could reasonably have expected to 
sell the car for on the open market immediately before the accident or loss. Our [esures] 
assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, 
condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from 
motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you 
[Mr H] paid when you [Mr H] purchased the car.
esure has valued Mr Hs car at £5,800. Its said its valued this by reviewing the main 
industry valuation guides. Mr H doesnt think this valuation is fair because he says he cant 
replace the car for the amount esure has valued the car at.
Its standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuation the guides 
give are based on the advertised prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale 
at the time of loss.
Ive looked at the valuation of Mr Hs car and I think its fair. Ive looked at the guides and 
they give a range of between £5,375 and £6,700. esures valuation is within the range of the 
valuation the guides give. So I think its valuation of £5,800 for the car was fair.
Customer service
Theres no dispute the salvage agent caused further damage. But Ive considered the 
engineer report carried out to look at the damage caused by the accident itself. This sets out 
the cost of repairing the accident damage was around £5,300. This equates to around 90% 
of the cars market value. Its common industry practice for insurers to consider a car to be 
uneconomical to repair in such circumstances.
So, while its clear theres further damage been caused to the car, Im satisfied esure would 
have written the car off even if further damage hadnt been caused by the salvage agent. So 
Im not persuaded Mr H has lost out because of the additional damage caused.
Mr H didnt accept my provisional decision. He said he didnt think I had taken the full 
complaint into account and had just focused on his unhappiness with the amount esure had 
valued his car. He said there was far more to his complaint. He said his primary complaint 
point was that damage to the car was minor until their salvage agents damaged it further and 
also that esure said his car was repaired. 
He said he wanted the following taken into account:
1. his car was repairable before esure took it.
2. esure lied about the car being repaired and ready to be picked up. 
3. The engineer who did the valuation for repair confirmed the car was damaged by the 
salvage agent. 
He said, if it was a close decision to write off with the damage the salvage agent caused, 
then he maintains it would have been repairable without the additional damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken everything Mr H has said into account, but I confirm I had considered his points 
previously and Im satisfied my provisional decision does explain why I havent upheld his 
complaint  taking into account all the concerns hes raised.
Theres no dispute the salvage agent caused further damage to Mr Hs car. But I need to 
think whether Mr H has lost out as a result of this. As I said in my provisional decision, the 
damage arising from the accident alone  i.e. not including the additional damage  equated 
to around 90% of the cars market value. Its standard industry practice for insurers to write a car off in these circumstances. So Im satisfied esure would have written Mr Hs car off even 
if the salvage agent hadnt caused further damage.
I acknowledge I didnt comment on the fact that esure had said the car was repaired. The car 
wasnt repaired, so Mr H shouldnt have been told it had been. I dont think this was a 
deliberate attempt to mislead him, but it was a simple mistake. While I appreciate Mr H was 
upset to receive misleading information, I dont think hes lost out as a result. So I dont think 
esure needs to compensate him for this. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman