DRN-3561523
The complaint
Mr F complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) (BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under Sections 75 and 140A of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of a timeshare in 
October 2008. He also says that the credit agreements he entered into with BPF were 
unenforceable. The purchase was made by Mr and Mrs F, but the credit agreement was in 
Mr Fs name alone. However, as they relate to purchases made by him and his wife, Ill refer 
to Mr and Mrs F at times throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F bought membership of a timeshare (the Club) from a third party I will call C on 
26 October 2008. They acquired 1,000 points at a cost of £13,310 plus £1,398 for 
membership fees being a total of £14,699. This was funded by a loan from BPF which I 
gather was repaid in August 2009.
In November 2021, using a professional representative (PR) Mr F made claims under s. 75 
and s. 140A of the CCA for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship.
The reasons for the claims under s. 75 were described in the following terms:
A. The Timeshare sold by CLC is Null and Void as it is not a timeshare as defined by the 
EU Directive.
Due to CLCs agreement being Null and Void, The Banks loan agreement creates an unfair 
relationship, under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act, between the Bank and our 
Client. The Banks loan agreement is therefore Null and Void.
B. The Bank loan agreement which includes the extortionate interest rate, creates an Unfair 
Term under the Unfair Contract Terms Regulations. In addition, the undisclosed secret 
commissions also is an unfair term. All of these terms makes the loan agreement 
unenforceable.
C. The misrepresentations made by CLC at the time of sale of The Timeshare has caused 
financial detriment to our client. Our Client therefore has a claim against the Bank for the 
breaches by CLC due to the misrepresentations under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act. As a result, the Banks loan agreement is Null and Void.
D. The Bank did not carry out an affordability assessment on the Clients ability to pay the 
Banks loan instalment in accordance with FCA regulations Conc 5.2.2 R (1) and Conc 
5.3.10(4). As a result, the Banks loan agreement is Null and Void.
E. The contract which was declared illegal and therefore null & void consisted of floating 
weeks, these have also been deemed illegal as they hold no value or substance. There was 
also no end date on the contract, so it was what is known as perpetuity. The law clearly 
states that contracts should be no longer than 50 years in duration and the termination date 
must clearly be shown.
I understand that BPF didnt issue a substantive response and a complaint was brought to 
this service in February 2022. This repeated much of what and been included in the claim to 
BPF and added:
1. Clients were not given sufficient information as to the terms and conditions of the loan 
agreement required by law;
2. There were no major credit checks made as to the affordability of the repayments such as 
income versus outgoings reports;
3. The length of the loan agreements were not explained, with client under the impression 
that they were for two years;
4. Clients were pressured into signing these agreements;
5. False representations were made to clients relating to the financial impact of regulated 
agreements;
6. Clients were subject to long high pressure sales tactics to purchase the timeshares;
7. Clients were sold timeshares which were not appropriate for them;
8. Vulnerable consumers were treated inappropriately;
9. Concerns about commission arrangements and disclosure thereof.
The complaint was passed to an investigator who, having considered the information 
available, concluded that Mr Fs claims under s. 75 and s.140A of the CCA were out of time 
under the LA.
PR disagreed with the investigators assessment. Much of what it had to say repeated what 
the Letters of Claim and Complaint said. So, I wont repeat any of that. But, in summary, it 
did say the following in relation to the limitation period that the investigator thought was 
relevant to his outcome:
It argued that s. 14A of the LA gave Mr F more time to make his claims because BPF ought 
to have known about European Directive 94/47/EC before providing Mr F with the finance to 
make the purchases in question. In PRs view, therefore, BPF owed Mr F a duty of care and 
shouldnt have provided him with finance to purchase points-based timeshares that were in 
breach of the relevant regulations. It set out its interpretations of S 14 as follows:
S14 LA Interpretation
1. CLC breached both Timeshare Regulations  1992 Act  by selling out Clients the Points 
timeshare as described above
2. The Bank breached the Timeshare Regulations  1992 Act by making payments within 
the Clients withdrawal period.
3. The Bank as principal of its agent, is responsible for the actions of its agent
4. These breaches of the law have resulted in the Bank being negligent as the Bank had a 
duty of care to the Client to ensure all laws were being complied with.
5. The Bank cannot claim ignorance of Resorts actions as a defence as the Bank and the 
Resort agreement were linked agreements so the Bank had a duty of care to ensure all laws were being complied with.
6. As highlighted in the Barclays Partner Finance v FCA case (Appendix 5), the Bank is 
responsible for the actions of its agent.
7. As a result of these breaches of the law where the Banks was negligent, the relationship 
between the Bank and the Client is unfair under S140A of the CCA.
8. S14A extends the time the Client has to make a claim to the Bank due to the Banks 
negligence.
9. Under S14A, the Client has to make a claim to the Bank within 3 years from the date of 
knowledge of when the Client became aware of these breaches  when the Client contacted 
[PR] which is within the 3 year limit.
10. The Clients claim is therefore not time barred.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont currently think 
this complaint should be upheld.
PR has sent us a considerable amount of information and submissions in an effort to explain 
what it thinks the outcome of this complaint should be. However, as this service is designed 
to be a quick and informal alternative to the courts, my role as an ombudsman isnt to 
address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to 
refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my 
reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I 
will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
The S. 75 Claims for MisrepresentationS. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr F) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (BPF) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
A claim for misrepresentation against C would ordinarily be made under s. 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Others [2011] 
EWHC B24 (Ch) (Green v Eadie) that a claim under s. 2(1) of the MA is an action founded 
in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued (see s. 2 of the LA).
Mr F made like claims against BPF under s. 75 of the CCA and the limitation period for those 
claims is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claims. As noted in paragraph 5.145 
of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, BPF may adopt any defence that would have 
been or would be open to the Supplier, including that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation.
So, this means that Mr F had six years from the date on which the causes of action accrued 
to make his s. 75 claims.
The date on which the causes of action accrued is the point at which Mr F entered into the 
purchase and credit agreements. I say this because the Letters of Claim and Complaint say 
that he entered into the purchase agreements based on the alleged misrepresentations of C.
And as the finance from BPF in 2008 was used to help pay for the purchases, it was when 
he entered into the credit agreements that he suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the causes of action accrued in October 2008  which means that, 
at the latest, he had six years from when he entered into the relevant credit agreements to 
make his claims. But as he didnt do that until November 2021, and as I cant see a reason 
why the limitation period is likely to be postponed in keeping with the LA, his claims are likely 
to have been too late. And for that reason, I think BPF had and has a defence to them under 
the LA.
The S 140A Claims for an Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr F and BPF were 
unfair for the purpose of s.140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it applies 
to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under s.140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of 
any enactment under s. 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. As the limitation period is six years, and as this claim was only 
made in November 2021, I think BPF was and is entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to 
the claim under this provision of the CCA too as Mr F doesnt dispute that the credit 
agreement ended in August 2009.I know PR says that Mr F has concerns about undisclosed commission. But had such a 
payment been made to C by BPF, I havent seen anything to suggest BPF would have 
breached a duty by making it  nor have I seen anything to suggest it was under a regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. Whats more, as I 
understand it, the typical amounts of commission paid by BPF to suppliers (like the supplier 
in this case) was unlikely to be much more than 10%.
So, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I think its unlikely that the levels of 
commission normally paid in situations like the one in question were high enough to put BPF 
on notice that not disclosing commission to Mr F risked making their debtor-creditor 
relationship unfair.
Grounds to Extend Time
S 14A of the LA provides claimants with a Special time limit for negligence actions [in which] 
facts relevant to cause of action are not known at date of accrual. And PR says that this 
provision gives Mr F more time to make his claims. In its view, BPF acted negligently when it 
paid the C what remained of the purchase prices in 2008 because it owed Mr F a duty of 
care to ensure that the 1992 Act was complied with by C.
It isnt entirely clear whether PR is saying that both types of CCA claim made by Mr F (i.e., 
his s. 75 and s.140A claims) were made in time because of s. 14A of the LA or one over the 
other. But either way, I dont think s. 14A gave Mr F more time to make any of his claims.
A claim for negligence is a cause of action in tort. And as noted in paragraph 32.35 of 
Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, s. 75 of the CCA cant found a claim in tort 
against the creditor except on the basis of a fraudulent or negligent misrepresentation. But 
on my reading of this complaint, Mr Fs allegations of misrepresentation dont set out in full 
detail the representations that are said to have been made by C  let alone assert, with that 
detail in mind, that C owed him a relevant duty of care when making such representations.
So, to the extent that there were s. 75 claims for misrepresentation, s. 14A of the LA doesnt 
help Mr Fs cause.
As for Mr Fs s. 140A claims, when they were made to BPF and referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, they related to PRs allegation that the credit agreement was null and 
void because the purchase agreement Mr F entered into didnt provide certain information 
as required under the 1992 Act. It seems that his s. 140A claims were only concerned with 
breaches of a statutory duty by C rather than BPFs negligence. And as s. 14A of the LA 
doesnt apply to such breaches, I dont think it helps Mr Fs cause here either.
However, even if Im wrong about the nature of Mr Fs s. 140A claims, Im not persuaded 
that Mr F could be said to have a cause of action in negligence against BPF anyway.
Mr Fs alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to him personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little to nothing to persuade me that BPF assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly  over and above ensuring that Mr F could afford to repay 
what he was borrowing.
PR seems to suggest that, because C was BPFs statutory agent under s. 56 of the CCA, 
BPF owed Mr F a duty of care to ensure that C complied with the 1992 Act. And PR says that BPF breached that duty by failing to carry out  before granting Mr F credit and paying C 
 the due diligence necessary to ensure that the product purchased by Mr F wasnt sold by 
C in breach of the 1992 Act.
However, English law recognises that there cant be a duty of care owed to everyone, in 
every situation and against all forms of harm. And there are legal tests to ascertain whether 
a duty of care is owed to someone in a given situation. They are:
1. A three-stage test set down in Caparo Industries v Dickman [1990]  which asks whether:
i. The damage was foreseeable.
ii. There was a sufficiently proximate relationship between the parties.
iii. Its fair, just and reasonable in all the circumstances to impose a duty of care.
2. The assumption of responsibility test in Henderson v Merrett Syndicates Ltd [1995], 
which was concerned with whether the defendant had taken on the responsibility of 
exercising reasonable care and skill towards the claimant.
3. Situations in which a duty of care was owed to the claimant by the defendant because 
such a duty had already been established by the courts.
Yet despite PRs lengthy submissions, it hasnt persuaded me with reference to any of these 
tests or relevant authorities that a lender owed a debtor and the purchaser of a timeshare a 
duty of care to ensure that the product they were purchasing wasnt sold by C in breach of a 
relevant regulation  particularly one that imposed a criminal sanction.
PR also seems to suggest that Mr F had a cause in negligence against BPF because it 
breached the 1992 Act directly by making payments to C during Mr Fs withdrawal period.
But, in my view, it wasnt possible for BPF to breach the 1992 Act.
Regulation 10 of the Timeshare Regulations 1997 inserted the following provision into the 
1992 Act in relation to advance payments:
(1) A person who enters, or proposes to enter, in the course of a business into a timeshare 
agreement to which this Act applies as offeror must not (either in person or through another 
person) request or accept from the offeree or proposed offeree any advance payment before 
the end of the period during which notice of cancellation of the agreement may be given 
under section 5 or 5A of this Act.
(2) A person who contravenes this section is guilty of an offence and liable
a. on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum, and
b. on conviction on indictment, to a fine.
See Murphy v Brentwood District Council [1991].
(3) Subsection (1) above only applies if the offeree or proposed offeree
a. is an individual, and
b. is not acting in the course of a business.(4) Subsection (1) above only applies if
a. the accommodation which is the subject of the agreement or proposed agreement is 
accommodation in a building, or
b. some or all of the accommodation in the pool of accommodation which is the subject of 
the agreement or proposed agreement is accommodation in a building, as the case may be.
And on my reading of that provision, it was only C  or its agent  who could breach it. After 
all, it was only a timeshare provider or its agent who could enter into a timeshare agreement 
in the course of business and request or accept payment before the end of the withdrawal 
period.
As things stand, therefore, I cant see why any of Mr Fs claims were likely to have been 
made in time under the LA.
The Purchase Agreement
PRs argument that the purchase agreement was null and void was framed as giving rise to 
an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s. 140A. But as Ive already explained why the 
claims under that provision were likely to have been made out of time under the LA, it isnt 
necessary to consider this argument in that context.
However, providing credit or otherwise being a creditor under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement was an activity covered by the Financial Ombudsman Services Compulsory 
Jurisdiction in October 2008. As the PRs argument here is to suggest that the credit 
agreement couldnt and shouldnt have been enforced by BPF because the associated 
purchase agreements were unenforceable, Ive considered the argument separately to Mr 
Fs s. 140A claims.
Its possible that the purchase agreements entered into by Mr F in October 2008 failed to 
comply with the information requirements in the 1992 Act. But nowhere in that Act (nor the 
European Directive 94/47/EC) can I see that a purchase agreement could be rescinded by a 
consumer if the information in question wasnt provided. And thats both a relevant and 
important consideration here as, generally speaking, a purchase agreement isnt rescindable 
simply because it  or part of it  was or became unenforceable.
The legal basis on which PR makes its argument here isnt entirely clear as it hasnt drawn 
my attention to any general points of law or authorities that deal with the situation in which a 
supply contract was/is unenforceable against the consumer.
I recognise that it was held by the Supreme Court in Durkin v DSG Retail [2014] UKSC 21 
(Durkin) that, if a debtor rescinds a supply contract that they have the right to rescind, they 
can also rescind a credit agreement whose purpose had been to finance the debtors entry 
into that supply contract.
The legal mechanism by which this occurs is an implied term that deems the credit 
agreement contingent on the survival of supply contract.
But, in the absence of any case law, I dont think the decision in Durkin can be said to have 
any application in a situation in which a supply contract was/is unenforceable against the 
consumer. An unenforceable purchase agreement under the 1992 Act is very different from 
one that the consumer is entitled to rescind. And even when the unenforceability of a 
purchase agreement is invoked by a consumer to support a CCA claim (as here), Ive seen 
nothing to persuade me that it equates to terminating the contract, let alone unwinding it from the start.
So, the fact that the purchase agreements entered into by Mr F might have been (and still 
might be) unenforceable against him has very different legal consequences to those which 
flow from the rescission of a supply contract. Any attempt to apply Durkin here would require 
a considerable extension of its reasoning by the courts. And for that reason and those 
above, Im not currently persuaded that this is a reason to uphold this complaint.
As for the judgment of the Spanish Supreme Court that PR says is relevant, I dont think it 
helps Mr Fs cause either. My understanding is that agreements with C were to be construed 
in accordance with English law.
And Ive seen nothing to suggest the purchase agreement entered into at the time of the 
purchase was any different. So, I cant see how the judgment of a Spanish court can be 
applied directly to the question as to whether the relevant purchase agreements were/are 
voidable under English law. And for that reason, I dont currently think there are any 
implications on the credit agreement that justify upholding this complaint.
The Lending Decision
While PR says that Mr F suffered detriment because the right checks werent carried out 
before BPF lent to him, very little has been said about this particular allegation. And even if I 
were to find that BPF failed to do everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I 
make no such finding), Id have to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mr F 
before also concluding that he lost out as a result. As I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that was the case, I dont currently think this is a reason to uphold this complaint given its 
circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF responded to say it had nothing further to add. PR did not agree and sent a detailed 
response. I should say that this service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to 
the courts and this means my role is not to address every single point which has been 
raised. Rather I have to decide what is fair and reasonable. For that treason I will only 
address those points which I consider to relevant to the complaint. That said, having read all 
the points made by both parties I will continue to keep in mind all of the points made. 
In summary PR said:
The product purchased by Mr F was regulated by the 1992 Act and C had failed to comply 
with a number of requirements set out in the legislation. It said that insufficient information 
had been supplied and BPF had paid over money to C before it should. It said this was a 
material breach.
It also referenced the judgment in a recent judicial review of two decisions on complaints 
about finance provided for the purchase of timeshare products. It argued that this said that 
the court had concluded that s.56 CCA allowed s. 140A and s.140B to have effect. This 
meant that this service could consider that the breaches by C led to an unfair relationship.
It said that s.14 LA mean the time limit being extended to three years from the date Mr F 
became aware of BPFs alleged negligence. Firstly I would like to address what PR has said about the findings of the High Court 
following the recent judicial review of the Financial Ombudsman Service and the approach 
PR thinks it should take to this complaint, which in simple terms is that I should take an 
identical approach. 
As I set out in my provisional decision I consider that Mr Fs claims under s.75 and s.140A 
were made out of time and as the question of limitation wasnt part of the judicial review it 
isnt directly relevant to this complaint. The High Court did affirm that my fellow 
ombudsmans findings on s.56 CCA and the extent to which it creates a statutory agency 
relationship between a creditor and a supplier when there is a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement in place  such that any negotiations between Mr F and C before his purchase 
are deemed to have been conducted by C as an agent of BPF. PR argued this complaint 
should be treated in the same way, but I do not agree.  
The complaints at the centre of the judicial review were concerned with a particular type of 
asset backed timeshare known as a fractional ownership timeshare.  Such timeshares 
offered prospective members the same sort of holiday rights commonly associated with 
timeshares more generally. But they also offered prospective members a share in the 
ownership of a specific property. They didnt usually confer any rights to stay in that 
property. But under the terms of the purchase agreement the property is usually set to be 
sold at the end of the membership period and the net proceeds distributed on a pro rata 
basis among the fractional owners.
However, that is not the type of timeshare Mr F bought and I do not consider that it follows 
that the same decision should be reached in this complaint as in those addressed by the 
judicial review.
While fractional and non-fractional timeshares may have been sold in a similar way, the fact 
that the non-fractional timeshares werent designed with an investment element front and 
centre is an important distinction to consider when determining what a fair and reasonable 
outcome to a complaint might look like. 
I accept that some non-fractional timeshares may share a number of contractual terms that 
were subject of the judicial review and may fall foul of the relevant law on unfair contract 
terms. However, an assessment of unfairness under s.140A CCA does not necessarily stop 
at a regulatory breach. Its often necessary to then assess the impact of that breach on the 
consumer. That much is clear from case law and  including the latest judicial review.
In other words, complaints must be decided on their individual merits which is what I will do 
in this case.  
S. 75 Claim for Misrepresentation
I set out the legislative background in my provisional decision which I will not repeat. Quite 
simply Mr F made a like claim against BPF under s.75 and the limitation period is the same 
as the underlying misrepresentation claim. That means BPF can adopt any defence against 
that claim that would have been available to C.  
The date on which the cause of action accrued was the date Mr F entered into the purchase 
agreement. This is what PR says, that he entered the agreement as a result of 
misrepresentations made by C. As I have set out above the claim was made outside the six 
year time limit and BPF has a defence against the claim.  
S.140 A claim for an Unfair Relationship and s.14 LAPR has argued that breaches in the 1992 Regulations made the relationship unfair and so it 
should be unwound. However, I think PR is conflating and confusing the part played by s.56 
CCA in an assessment of unfairness under s.140A with limitation and whether Mr Fs claims 
were made in time under the LA.
Mr Fs claims under s.140A werent made under a provision of the CCA intended to 
reproduce, against a creditor, the relevant damages claim which a complainant enjoys 
against a supplier (like s.75 does). However, claims under s.140A are only concerned with 
whether there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. And while Cs alleged breaches of 
the 1992 Regulations (and alleged negligence) would undoubtedly be relevant to an 
assessment of unfairness because of the statutory relationship created by s.56 between C 
and BPF, PR hasnt pointed me to any relevant authorities to demonstrate that a claim under 
s.140A that happens to involve allegations of negligence by a timeshare provider changes 
that claim, for the purpose of limitation, from an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment governed by s.9 of the LA, to a claim for negligence governed by 
s.14A.
As such I am not persuaded that s.14A LA gave Mr F more time to make his s.140A claims.
In conclusion I remain unpersuaded that this complaint should be upheld or that BPF should 
respond differently to the claim made by Mr F. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman