DRN-2909615
The complaint
Mr K complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) didnt provide him with legal 
representation and wont meet the adverse costs hes been directed to pay. 
Where I refer to IPA, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. In 2016 Mr K was involved in a car accident 
which he says wasnt his fault. 
At the relevant time Mr K had the benefit of motor legal expenses insurance which was 
provided by IPA. In May 2019 Mr K contacted IPA to make a claim. He wanted to pursue the 
other driver for personal injury. 
IPA appointed one of their panel solicitors C to look into his claim. But when it was pointed 
out that C had a conflict of interest, they asked another firm M to take over. In July 2019 M 
told Mr K that they couldnt assist as the limitation date had passed and told him they would 
be closing their file. 
In August 2020 Mr K got back in touch with IPA. He said he had recently been back to C 
who hadnt responded to him and he wanted IPA to arrange representation for him. On 2 
September 2020 he informed IPA that he had a hearing on 10 September 2020. IPA 
suggested Mr K find his own representation and asked for more information to help them 
assess the claim. 
Ultimately IPA advised that in personal injury claims (where accepted) they only provide 
cover for adverse costs (as they require solicitors to enter into a conditional fee agreement). 
They also questioned why they hadnt heard from Mr K about this matter in over a year. Mr K 
advised that hed represented himself at the hearing and his claim had been struck out. He 
was also ordered to pay costs to the other side.
IPA declined to do anything further or to meet Mr Ks adverse costs  they said Mr Ks 
actions had prejudiced their position. Mr K complained and when IPA maintained their 
position the matter was referred to our service. One of our investigators didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. In summary he thought IPA had acted within the policy terms 
and fairly. As Mr K still disagrees, hes asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know this 
will be disappointing for Mr K, so Ill explain why. 
Mr Ks policy says: You must notify us of a claim as soon as possible and within a maximum 
of 180 days once you become aware of the Insured incident. There will be no cover under 
this policy if, as a result of a delay in reporting the claim our position has been prejudiced.
I agree that Mr K breached this policy term. He was involved in an accident in 2016 and only 
contacted IPA shortly before the period of limitation was due to expire in 2019. I also think 
its likely that this prejudiced IPAs position as there was only a few days in which theyd 
need to confirm cover including taking and assessing all the relevant information from Mr K. 
However, IPA did still try to assist by appointing C and then M. But when M advised the 
limitation date had passed, I think it was reasonable for IPA not to take any further action. I 
cant see that Mr K had advised IPA that he had issued the claim in court himself. 
I appreciate that Mr Ks motor legal insurance is part of his overall motor insurance policy. 
And Mr K points out that he notified his motor insurer of the accident and so doesnt think he 
breached the above policy term. But the motor insurer wouldnt have dealt with the legal 
expenses claim. If Mr K believes this is something the motor insurer should have passed on 
and didnt, he should take that up with them. The motor legal expenses insurance is 
underwritten by IPA and there is a separate claims process outlined in the policy documents. 
So, I dont agree that Mr K notified IPA of his claim within the deadline set by the policy 
terms. 
Between May 2019 and August 2020, Ive seen evidence which shows the legal claim was 
progressing. Mr K was acting as a litigant in person and was liaising with the solicitors for the 
other side and the court. Of particular note during that time period is that an offer to settle the 
claim was made by the other side (and rejected by Mr K) in June 2020. 
There is a further policy term which says: This insurance does not provide cover where 
something you do or fail to do prejudices your position or the position of the underwriters in 
connection with the legal action.
Mr K next contacted IPA in August 2020. Until then theyd been unaware of any of the 
developments and had no opportunity to be involved. IPA again tried to assist by suggesting 
Mr K instruct a solicitor to protect his legal interests and they asked him for information to 
enable them to assess his claim. But before that happened, the hearing in September 2020 
took place and Mr Ks claim was struck out by the court and an order for costs against him 
was made. 
Mr Ks policy does provide cover for adverse costs in personal injury claims. Mr K believes 
cover of this type was confirmed to him in an email in September 2020. But such cover is 
only where a claim is accepted and meets the policy terms. I dont agree cover was 
confirmed in that email. Mr K says he didnt contact IPA sooner because he was stuck 
overseas due to the global pandemic. But Im not persuaded that is the case as he was able 
to communicate with the other sides solicitor during that time. So, I dont think his location 
prevented him doing likewise with IPA. 
Overall, Mr K didnt keep IPA informed of developments or provide enough information (with 
enough time) for them to assess his claim and his claim was notified late. I think IPA 
assisted as best they could in the circumstances. But if Mr K wanted to rely on his policy to 
either fund his representation or to meet his adverse costs, he had to keep IPA informed and 
comply with the policy terms. I think IPA are being reasonable when concluding that their 
position was prejudiced by Mr Ks actions. And I therefore dont think they are treating Mr K 
unfairly when declining to make any payment or to take any further action in line with the policy term quoted above. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman