DRN-3927568
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy about the fact they had to instruct  and pay for  a solicitor to 
redeem their Help to Buy (HTB) shared equity loan when they sold their property. They also 
say Target Servicing Limited initially told them in January 2021 that a solicitor wasnt 
needed, only giving them the correct information about a month later.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in December 2022, the findings of which said:
I acknowledge that the Equity Mortgage  Help to Buy document doesnt say that a 
solicitor would be needed to redeem the loan upon the sale of the property, but equally it 
doesnt specifically say a solicitor wont be needed either.
Mr and Mrs T have quoted from clause 7, but that doesnt relate to the redemption of the 
loan when the property is sold, in fact it expressly excludes that reason for redemption If 
the Borrower wishes to redeem this mortgage before an event specified in clause 5 
with clause 5 explaining that the sale of the property would be considered a redemption 
event. The relevant section for the redemption of the loan due to the sale of the property 
is clause 6.
That said, neither clause states a solicitor is not required, just that the Borrower will be 
paying the funds  which they would be whether that is direct or via a solicitor.
Mr and Mrs T provided a document entitled Information for Solicitors/Legal 
Representatives saying that doesnt mention the need for a solicitor at redemption. But 
that document is the information the solicitors/legal representatives needed for when the 
loan was being taken out  not for the later redemption of the loan, so I wouldnt expect it 
to cover that process in any detail as it simply isnt what the document was intended for.
Mr and Mrs T have questioned whether the need for a solicitor upon redemption is 
something that has been added since they took out the loan in 2019 and therefore 
shouldnt be binding on them. But thats not the case. The solicitors pack setting out this 
process is entitled Redemption Information for Legal Representatives Help to Buy and 
the date of publication for that document was July 2018  so the year before Mr and 
Mrs T took out their HTB shared equity loan.
Mr and Mrs T have said that they werent told about this when they took the loan out. A 
HTB shared equity loan is not a financial product regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. And Homes England is not a regulated firm within the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Homes England has appointed Target to administer HTB 
loans on their behalf. Target is a regulated firm within the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and is therefore the respondent to this complaint.
That means we can consider a complaint about Target about their acts or omissions in 
carrying on the regulated activities of debt administration and debt collection relating to 
the shared equity loan. However, that doesnt extend to what Mr and Mrs T may or may 
not have been told before they took the loan out  thats because what happened before 
the loan was taken out doesnt come under the activity of debt administration or debt 
collection. We also cant consider a complaint about Homes England as that firm doesnt 
come under our jurisdiction. All together that means Ive no power to consider a complaint 
against either Target or Homes England in respect of what Mr and Mrs T were  and 
werent  told before they took this loan out about the need for a solicitor to be used at 
redemption.
The loan redemption process that was in force both at the time Mr and Mrs T took out the 
loan, and when they came to redeem it upon the sale of their property, required them to 
instruct a solicitor as part of the redemption process and the cost for that was Mr and 
Mrs Ts to bear. For that reason I dont think Target did anything wrong in not varying that 
procedure for Mr and Mrs T.
Following our investigators recommendation Target agreed to pay £100 to Mr and Mrs T 
in recognition of the misinformation they were given in the January 2021 call and having 
considered everything Im satisfied that is a fair and reasonable outcome for this 
complaint.
Target didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs T responded saying, in 
summary:
It wasnt a redemption with sale, therefore clause 7 is the correct one. As there was 
no sale occurring, there would be no expectation that a solicitor would be needed.
There is a requirement for any contractual obligations to be clearly stated.
Whilst they acknowledge the Solicitors Instructions document is provided when the 
property is purchased, they were highlighting that it contains supplementary 
information about redemption.
The Equity Mortgage Lenders Handbook for Conveyancers was published in 2021 
which was after the purchase. They dont think the Redemption Information for Legal 
Representatives Help to Buy document was provided to either them or their solicitor 
when they took out the loan, therefore would not modify the terms of the loan.
The process that was published online has no legal weight, and the loan agreement 
they signed in 2019 detailed the redemption process. As Target was performing the 
function of Nominated Agent then we should be able to consider the complaint in the 
context of whether Target complied with the terms of the loan agreement, as 
administration of the loan must include adherence to the terms of the loan 
agreement.
If I cant consider whether or not Target has complied with the terms of the loan 
agreement as part of this complaint, they want my final decision to make clear that it 
is only addressing the misinformation that they were given in the January 2021 
phone call, as otherwise it could limit their ability to make a joint claim against Target 
and Homes England in court.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ts response very carefully, but I wont be answering each of the 
points raised. Although Ive read and considered everything, Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions on how a complaint will be looked at.
For that reason, my decision wont just be addressing the January 2021 call, as that 
complaint cant be decided without also deciding the context around it; that is, what the 
redemption process actually is. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs T said that the outcome they wanted for this complaint is for Target to cover their 
solicitors fees, but I could only award that in compensation if I was to decide that those fees 
werent fairly charged. I couldnt award that in compensation just for Mr and Mrs T being told 
in error in a call that they wouldnt need a solicitor. Thats because this is what we call a 
misrepresentation; that is, Target gave incorrect information to Mr and Mrs T about the need 
for a solicitor. 
When were looking at complaints about misrepresentation we consider the appropriate 
remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information 
hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if the misinformation 
had been correct (that is, a solicitor wouldnt be needed). Mr and Mrs T are already back in 
the position they would have been in had they been told in the call that a solicitor would be 
needed, as that information was later correctly given to them. They could never have been in 
the position where they could redeem their shared equity loan without instructing  and 
paying for  a solicitor.
I apologise for the misunderstanding in my provisional decision about which clause is valid, 
however that doesnt change what I said immediately before and after that paragraph:
I acknowledge that the Equity Mortgage  Help to Buy document doesnt say that a 
solicitor would be needed to redeem the loan upon the sale of the property, but 
equally it doesnt specifically say a solicitor wont be needed either.
That said, neither clause states a solicitor is not required, just that the Borrower will 
be paying the funds  which they would be whether that is direct or via a solicitor.
It may be Mr and Mrs T didnt expect to have to instruct a solicitor, but that doesnt mean 
their expectation was correct. The process has always been (since before Mr and Mrs T took 
out their shared equity loan) that a solicitor was needed to redeem the loan irrespective of 
whether that was upon the sale of the property, or by other means. That is the case for all 
HTB shared equity loan customers, as it is part of the underlying process for redemption. As 
theres nothing in the agreement that specifically says a solicitor wouldnt be required, then it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to say that Target didnt comply with the agreement.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to the courts. It may be the 
courts would look at this matter differently, but were not bound by what a court may - or may 
not - do. If Mr and Mrs T feel their claim has merit, then they can test that in court if they 
wish. However, I would urge them to get good independent legal advice first.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. I have to consider 
this complaint by reference to this particular situation. When I do that, Im satisfied Target 
didnt treat Mr and Mrs T unfairly. Theres nothing in any of the paperwork that says a solicitor wouldnt be needed and all HTB shared equity loan customers have to instruct a 
solicitor to redeem the loan, so it didnt treat Mr and Mrs T any differently to all those other 
customers. 
Mr and Mrs T dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Target will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Ts right to take legal action against Target over the subject 
matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, but only insofar as I order Target Servicing Limited to pay 
£100 compensation to Mr and Mrs T in recognition of the misinformation they were given in 
the January 2021 phone call. I dont uphold any other part of this complaint or make any 
further order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman