DRN-3085917
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax continued to make her standing 
order payments to an account even though it had been closed.
What happened
Mrs K complains that Halifax continued to pay her standing order to an account that was 
closed and didnt contact her about this. As the account details were then reallocated and 
the payment continued Mrs K was making payments to an unknown person. She has lost a 
lot of money and wants this refunded.
Halifax didnt accept that it had made an error. It said that when Mrs K told it her standing 
order wasnt being received by her it raised a payment in error claim and contacted the 
recipient bank about the issue. However, as it didnt receive a response it said it was unable 
to retrieve the money. It confirmed that the payments she had made between 31 December 
2012 and 30 August 2018 were automatically returned to her Halifax account the day after 
the payment was made. It also confirmed that the standing order had been cancelled to 
prevent any further payments being sent in error.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that she could consider this complaint 
in regard to the payments made from 12 July 2015 as these fell within six years of the 
complaint being raised. She noted that the payments Mrs K made up to 30 August 2018 
were returned to her and so she focused on the payments after this date. She said when 
Mrs K made Halifax aware of the issue it raised the payment recall with the receiving bank. It 
then wrote to Mrs K on 7 July 2021 to say that the recall had been unsuccessful. Based on 
this she thought Halifax had done what was required of it and so didnt uphold this complaint.
Mrs K didnt agree with our investigators view. She questioned why Halifax kept allowing her 
standing order to be sent even though the account it was being sent to had been closed. 
She said that given the length of time this was ongoing Halifax should have contacted her 
about the payment and told her to cancel her standing order.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This situation is very upsetting for Mrs K as she thought she was making regular payments 
towards her savings but the account she was making payments to had closed. As has been 
explained this decision relates to the payments that have happened since 12 July 2015. 
Mrs K set up a standing order to make monthly payment of £25 to her savings account, 
however the recipient account was closed in December 2012. As Mrs K didnt change her 
standing order details when the account was closed the payments continued to be made. 
However due to the recipient account being closed the payments were returned to Mrs Ks 
account the next day. Therefore, during the time the account was closed Mrs K didnt lose 
out financially because of the payments being made and then returned.
I understand that Mrs K thinks Halifax should have contacted her about the payments being 
returned and told her to cancel the standing order. While I agree that would have assisted 
Mrs K, it was Mrs Ks responsibility to monitor her account. As this would have shown the 
returned payments I think that Mrs K had the opportunity to identify the issue and address 
this at that time.
After nearly six years of the account being closed, the account details were reallocated and 
so the account became active with a new owner. As the standing order was still active the 
payments were sent to the account and received by the new owner. As Mrs K had set up the 
standing order and I have nothing to show she had cancelled this or amended it, I do not find 
I can say Halifax was wrong to make the payments.
When Mrs K alerted Halifax to the situation, we would expect it to try to assist Mrs K with the 
recovery of the money. It was clear that the payments were sent to the third party in error 
and while I cannot say this was the fault of Halifax, I think it reasonable that it undertook 
actions to try to recover the money.
Halifax has shown that it followed its payment in error process and contacted the receiving 
bank. The receiving bank contacted the third party who had received the funds but as they 
didnt respond it wasnt able to recover the money. Halifax told Mrs K that the money hadnt 
been able to be recovered. 
I understand how upsetting this situation has been for Mrs K, and that she has lost out on 
£825. However, as I do not find I can say Halifax did anything wrong, and it took the actions 
we would expect in trying to recover Mrs Ks money, I do not find I can require it to do 
anything further in response to this complaint.
Based on the above, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman