DRN-3064106
The complaint
Mrs Cs complained that Kbis Limited unfairly assessed the start of her horses symptoms as
June 2019, rather than November/December 2019  meaning that not all the treatment was
completed before the cover period ran out.
What happened
Mrs C bought her horse in early 2019. Shortly after, she bought a policy from Kbis which 
provided cover for vets fees for 15 months after what the policy calls an incident. An 
incident is defined as an onset of symptoms.
In December 2019, Mrs C contacted Kbis because she wanted her vet to investigate her 
horses behaviour  which she thought may be due to ulcers. Kbiss adviser told her they 
didnt pre-authorise claims  but she could send Mrs C the forms to make a claim for any 
investigations the vet did.
During their conversation, the adviser asked Mrs C when shed first noticed the behaviour. 
Mrs C said it had been in June  although only when jumping. And shed put that down to 
her own inexperience with the horse. But in the previous two weeks, Mrs C had noticed the 
same behaviour when riding on the flat.
Over the following months, Mrs C made several claims for her horses treatment, all of which 
were settled by Kbis. But a claim made in September 2020 was declined on the basis that 
the 15 month period of cover had expired. This left Mrs C owing fees to her vet.
Mrs C complained about Kbis using June as the date to start the 15 month period. She said 
that the information shed given was retrospective conjecture, rather than specific discussion 
about symptoms. And shed never have waited so long to consult a vet if shed suspected 
earlier than her horse had a painful condition. She said shed been getting to know the horse 
in that time.
Kbis investigated but didnt change their position. They said that Mrs C had volunteered the 
information that shed first noticed a problem in June 2019. And shed confirmed this when 
she signed the claim form. They also said theyd reminded Mrs C during several calls that 
cover for treatment for ulcers would end at the end of August 2020  15 months after 
symptoms were first noted.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with Kbiss response and brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator considered it and concluded it would be fair for the 15 month period to start 
when Mrs C could first reasonably make a claim on her policy. She said that would be when 
the vet first examined her horse and made a diagnosis. And that would mean Mrs Cs final 
claim would fall within the 15 month period  so should be settled.
I didnt agree with our investigators view.  So I made a provisional decision.  
I noted Mrs C didnt consult her vet about the horses behaviour until December 2019.  But in 
the call she made to Kbis, she said shed first seen symptoms in June and described how 
shed started to see them more frequently and in different circumstances.  So I thought it 
was reasonable to conclude that symptoms were apparent in June  even though Mrs C 
didnt consult her vet about them at that time.  And that meant it was reasonable for Kbis to 
start the 15 month period of cover in June 2019.
Kbis havent responded to my provisional decision.  Mrs C has provided more information.  
Shes told us her vet did see her horse several times between June and December 2019 and 
that they always make enquiries about the horses general health.  Shes said she had a 
general discussion with the vet and the vet didnt suggest the horses behaviour was a 
symptom of ulcers.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain why Ive not been 
persuaded to change my provisional decision.
I noted in my provisional decision there was no disagreement about the extent of cover  
rather there was a difference as to whether the behaviour the horse first exhibited in June 
should be treated as an onset of symptoms which didnt lead to an investigation or 
diagnosis until December.  I was satisfied Mrs C had told Kbis shed first noticed some 
erratic behaviour in June  so it was reasonable to date the onset of symptoms from then.
Mrs C has taken issue with me saying in my provisional decision that she hadnt consulted 
her vet before December 2019.  Shes sent evidence to show there were several routine 
appointments.  And shes told us the vet made general enquiries about her horses health 
during those appointments  which didnt lead to them raising the possibility the horse was 
suffering from ulcers.
Im sorry if I didnt make my provisional decision clear.  What I meant was that Mrs C didnt 
consult her vet before December 2019 about what might be causing her horses behaviour.  
And considering the vets notes of the routine appointments hasnt changed my view on this 
matter.  Theres no record to show that the horses behaviour was discussed, or that the vet 
advised Mrs C no further investigation was needed.
Mrs C has also said theres a difference between behaviour and symptoms.  She says she 
described her horses behaviour  rather than symptoms - in the call to Kbis as dating back 
to June.  And she says its unfair to conflate the two terms.
Ive thought about this.  And Ive listened again to the call Mrs C made.  Its clear that Mrs C 
called Kbis because she was concerned the horses behaviour was a sign something may 
be wrong.  And her vets notes refer to the horses behaviour possibly resulting from ulcers.
I understand ulcers arent something which exhibit exterior signs on an animal.  So people 
have to rely on other factors  such as behaviour  to start investigating if somethings 
wrong.  I dont think its fair for me to say Kbis shouldnt link behaviour and symptoms, when 
it was the horses behaviour which triggered the vets investigation and led to the diagnosis.  
As I said in my provisional decision, Mrs C told Kbis she first noticed erratic behaviour in her 
horse in June 2019 - which worsened over the following months.  She confirmed that date in 
the claim forms she completed.  Im satisfied that type of behaviour can indicate ulcers.  So I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Kbis to date the claim from June 2019.  And Im not 
asking them to do anything more to resolve Mrs Cs complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint about Kbis Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman