DRN-4205093
The complaint
Mr F complains Ageas Insurance Limited handled his home insurance claim poorly.
What happened
In December 2022 Mr F made a theft claim against his Ageas home insurance policy. Items 
of jewellery had been stolen. Mr F, unhappy with a lack of progress and responses to his 
requests for updates, complained to Ageas. It apologised for providing a poor service. It 
explained it was due to high demand on its claim handling operations. It offered £100 
compensation  and agreed to provide weekly updates. Mr F wasnt satisfied with the 
amount of compensation offered so came to this service. 
Our Investigator felt Ageas was responsible for poor communication and around three 
months of avoidable delay. She said the compensation already offered wasnt enough to 
recognise the impact on Mr F. So she recommended it pay a total of £250 compensation  
an additional £150. Ageas accepted that outcome. But Mr F felt that sum didnt reflect the 
unnecessary stress and inconvenience experienced. So the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas has already accepted responsibility for delay and poor communications. So Ive 
considered the impact of that. Making repeated calls and requests for updates to Ageas was 
no doubt an inconvenience for Mr F. And requests not being responded to will have been 
distressing. In addition Mr F says the lack of progress on the claim caused his wife distress 
and affected her health, which I accept caused him upset. 
Im aware that Ageas poor service will likely have compounded the already distressing 
experience of being burgled. But Im satisfied the current proposal of £250 compensation is 
reasonably recognises the impact of Ageas mistakes. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr F a total of £250 
compensation (including £100 already offered).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
