DRN-1865989
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say they have been treated unfairly by The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as 
Platform) when they wanted to port (transfer) their mortgage interest rate product onto a new 
property. They want Platform to refund the early repayment charge (ERC) they had to pay, 
along with compensation for stress and inconvenience.
What happened
On 3 April 2019, after taking advice from their own independent mortgage broker, Mr and 
Mrs M took out a mortgage with Platform, on a fixed rate which would expire on 29 February 
2024. They borrowed £342,999 over a term of 28 years on a capital repayment basis.
The terms and conditions stated that if the mortgage was repaid before 29 February 2024, 
an ERC would be payable. The ERC was on a sliding scale of 5% in the first year, 4% in the 
second year, and so on, down to 1% in the fifth year. The mortgage interest rate product was 
also portable onto another property, subject to meeting Platforms lending criteria and 
lending policy.
Ten days after completing the mortgage, Mr and Mrs M found out they were expecting a 
baby and decided to move house to live closer to family in another party of the country. They 
accepted an offer on their property on 21 May 2019. They discussed their options with their 
mortgage broker, who confirmed that their maximum borrowing potential was around 
£475,000. The broker also confirmed that Platform still had the same product available and 
provided Mr and Mrs M with illustrations of what their monthly payments would be based on 
different purchase prices.
Mr and Mrs M found a property to buy at a price of £480,000. They intended to borrow 85% 
of the purchase price or £408,000, an increase in their current borrowing of just over 
£65,000. They asked their broker to progress the porting application with Platform.
Mr and Mrs M say that Platform refused to deal with the broker for the porting application, 
and so they had to deal with Platform directly. During the first call to Platform on 3 June 
2019, Mr and Mrs M were told that Platform would not agree to a porting application in the 
first six months of the mortgage term. They were also told that if any additional borrowing 
was taken, it would be on a tracker rate, rather than a fixed rate.
Mr and Mrs M were very unhappy about this and said that, as they were buying a new-build 
property, they were expecting completion to take place by month six, so didnt see a 
problem. Mr and Mrs M also said that there was nothing in their mortgage offer that said 
Platform wouldnt allow porting within the first six months of the mortgage term. 
A complaint was made to Platform about its refusal to allow the mortgage to be ported within 
the first six months of the term. On 7 June 2019, Platform agreed, as an exception, to allow 
a porting application, after acknowledging and understanding Mr and Mrs Ms reasons for 
wanting to move. Platform explained that this was likely to take six to eight weeks. Platform 
issued a final response letter giving Mr and Mrs M referral rights to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
On 8 June 2019 Mr and Mrs M instructed their broker to proceed with an application to 
another lender. The broker said he would speak to his contact at Platform first, because he 
didnt think the service Mr and Mrs M had received was reasonable and he thought Platform 
wasnt treating them fairly.
But on 10 June 2019 the broker called Mr and Mrs M to confirm that his contact was unable 
to offer any different outcome, which he was surprised and disappointed about.
Mr and Mrs M proceeded with an application to a new lender, borrowing 90% of the 
purchase price in order to be able to cover the ERC of £17,000 which they had to pay to 
Platform on redemption of their existing mortgage. They completed their new purchase on 
13 September 2019.
On 11 June 2019 Mr and Mrs M complained to us. 
Mr and Mrs M consider Platform to be in breach of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
policy on treating customers fairly. In particular they have made the following points:
nobody they spoke to at Platform was concerned about their personal circumstances, 
which were unique;
Platforms terms are unclear. Platform resorted to relying on policy in support of its 
position that they couldnt port within the first six months;
the mortgage product didnt perform as they expected, because they were unable to port 
it to another property within a reasonable time period, despite there being no change in 
their financial circumstances;
their broker was incredibly surprised about Platforms conduct and the way theyd been 
treated;
even if theyd been able to wait several months to enable their porting application to 
proceed, Platform would not offer them a fixed rate for the additional borrowing. They 
were therefore given no choice as to which product to proceed with and were faced with 
uncertainty in relation to monthly payments for the next five years;
the purported six-month restriction and the unreasonable time-frame of six-to-eight 
weeks to process the porting application are unreasonable post-sales barriers which 
have prevented them from changing product without significant penalty, and/or using the 
product as they expected to be able to do;
Platform has not adhered to FCA requirements and has provide them with a very poor 
service;
losing the home they needed was simply not an option and would be an unfair outcome 
for them.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Another 
investigator looked at the complaint. In a very detailed letter dated 5 May 2020 she set out 
her findings. She didnt think Platform had treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly in relation to its 
application of its porting policy. 
In particular, she noted that Platform had put in place a redress scheme where it would allow 
some customers who had had their mortgages for more than six months to have their ERC 
waived. Platform had explained this was where there had been ambiguity about the interest 
rate charged. Platform also explained to us that the scheme had ended on 30 May 2019. so 
although Mr and Mrs Ms broker had told them they would be able to port without paying an 
ERC, this wasnt possible.The investigator was also satisfied that Platform was entitled to charge the ERC where Mr 
and Mrs M had decided to redeem the mortgage. She noted that on 7 June 2019 Platform 
had agreed to an application to port, but that ultimately Mr and Mrs M had decided to go to 
another lender. In the circumstances, she didnt think it would be reasonable for Platform to 
refund the ERC.
But she noted that Platform hadnt returned calls and hadnt looked in detail at Mr and 
Mrs Ms circumstances before initially declining the porting request. She also noted that the 
information on Platforms website had given a different timescale of 12 days for mortgage 
applications, rather than the six or eight weeks Mr and Mrs M had been given. She asked 
Platform to pay compensation of £150 for any distress or inconvenience caused and to 
apologise.  
Platform agreed to this but Mr and Mrs M did not. 
Mr and Mrs M have clarified that they were willing to go ahead with a variable rate of interest 
for the additional borrowing. They only included this issue on the complaint form on the 
advice of their broker. Their main concern is that they feel they were misled by Platform 
about the timescales involved, as a result of which they felt they had no option but to go with 
a new lender and thus incur the ERC. 
Mr and Mrs M say that they do not consider the compensation of £150 to be a fair reflection 
of the suffering, distress and loss caused by Platforms failings, particularly around 
timescales. They say the only reason they decided not to proceed with Platform was the 
timescale of six to eight weeks, which is wholly unreasonable.  
Mr and Mrs M accept they made the decision to change lenders, but this was without all 
relevant information being given to them. As a result, it wasnt an informed choice and 
Platform has profited as a result. They have noted that the investigator said that Platforms 
timescales given on its website are that an average application can take 12 days, and if they 
had known this, they would have gone with Platform. But this fundamental information was 
withheld and so they were forced to go elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Furthermore, in her letter of 5 May 2020, the investigator set out in detail what had 
happened, including what was said in the telephone conversations between Mr and Mrs M and Platform. I confirm Ive listened to the calls but there is no need for me to repeat all the 
details here.
Ill begin by explaining that we arent the regulator of Platform. So although Ive noted all the 
points Mr and Mrs M have made where they believe Platform has breached FCA regulations 
in respect of treating customers fairly, my role is to look at the overall circumstances of this 
complaint and decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr and Mrs M took out this mortgage on the advice of their broker, and I understand theyd 
explained to their broker that they might want to move house in the near future. Im satisfied 
Platforms mortgage offer says that the ERC is payable if the mortgage is redeemed. 
It was the brokers responsibility to explain that porting a mortgage means that the existing 
mortgage is redeemed and it is simply the interest rate product which is transferred onto a 
new mortgage on a new property. I would have expected the broker to explain what this 
might mean in relation to the ERC.
It was also the brokers role to explain, when Mr and Mrs M told him they intended to move 
house, of the implications of doing this in the first six months of the mortgage term. 
I will explain here that the policy of not allowing a mortgage to be ported or refinanced within 
the first six months of the mortgage term is not unusual and is not peculiar to Platform. Most 
lenders will not permit a mortgage product to be rearranged within the first six months, 
largely as a result of lenders having suffered losses arising from back-to-back sales during 
the height of the property boom between 2003-2008. A six-month restriction is standard 
policy for mainstream mortgage lenders and I would expect a mortgage broker to be aware 
of this. 
So I find nothing wrong in Platform having this policy. It is a reasonable one to have and 
serves to protect Platforms exposure to risk. Ive noted that Platform was allowing some 
customers whod had their mortgage for more than six months (and in specific situations 
which didnt apply to Mr and Mrs M where the mortgage interest rate might not have been 
clearly expressed in the documentation) to redeem without an ERC within the period when 
an ERC would ordinarily apply. It seems Mr and Mrs Ms broker told them that this would 
apply to them and they wouldnt have to pay an ERC, but it did not. In any event this 
concession had ended on 31 May 2019.
When the broker contacted Platform about the porting application, he was told, correctly, that 
Mr and Mrs M would need to contact Platform themselves. Platform uses mortgage 
intermediaries for the introduction of new business, which was the case when Mr and Mrs M 
took out the mortgage in April 2019. But Platforms website says clearly in the intermediary 
section that a porting application can only be done by direct application from the borrower. 
Given this, its surprising the broker thought that he would be able to arrange the porting 
application.
Mr and Mrs M made their first call to Platform on 3 June 2019, and within four days Platform 
had agreed that it would allow them to apply to port their mortgage, outside of its normal 
lending policy. It was Mr and Mrs Ms choice to go to another lender, and they say they only 
did so because of the unreasonable timescales involved. They say it was only later that they 
discovered that Platforms website gave a timescale of 12 days for an application to be 
completed. (That has now been revised to 18 days.)
Mr and Mrs M say that, if theyd been told that the application would only take 12 days, 
theyd have gone ahead with their application to Platform. They feel they were misled by 
Platform, and so only incurred the ERC as a result of relying on an inaccurate timescale of six to eight weeks. Losing their new property was not an option so they had to go ahead with 
another lender.
Ive thought about how long the application might realistically take. I think its unlikely it could 
have been done in 12 days and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M were buying a new-build property. When a lender is being asked to lend 
money against a property, it has to look at the actual physical building in order to ensure it is 
of suitable construction and condition, and that it is worth the price seller is asking the buyer 
to pay. In addition  and as important as the property meeting lending criteria  the lender 
(through its solicitors) needs to undertake enquiries to make sure the legal title is sound. 
Where a property is under construction, it has not yet been registered at the Land Registry. 
This means that identifying such things as boundaries, the route of underground utilities, 
property easements, rights of way and restrictive covenants  all of which affect the title  
are not straightforward, as is the case with a property which is already registered, where 
these things are noted on the register. The lender also has to establish if there is an 
agreement under section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, which is likely to 
affect any lending decision. (This is just an example of the types of things the solicitors need 
to establish, and is not intended to be exhaustive.)
In the circumstances, I dont think a mortgage application for a new-build property still under 
construction could realistically be completed within 12 days, given the work involved in 
establishing whether or not the property and title provide suitable security for the requested 
loan. 
But in any event, a porting application has to be made direct to Platform, so the 12-day 
timescale shown on the intermediaries website has never applied to a porting application. I 
acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M think the 12-day timescale is significant information which 
was deliberately withheld by Platform  and which would have affected their decision to go 
ahead with their porting application. But it is in fact something of a red herring, because the 
12-day timescale applied only to applications that could be made through an intermediary. 
In all the circumstances, I think Platforms estimate of six to eight weeks was a reasonable 
management of Mr and Mrs Ms expectations of how long their application might take. I think 
if Mr and Mrs M had misunderstood that the application would take only 12 days, theyd have 
been very unhappy if theyd gone ahead with it and it actually transpired that it would take 
longer. 
Again, it appears they discussed this with their broker on 8 June 2019 and he said he would 
speak to his contact at Platform. Unsurprisingly, the brokers contact at Platform wasnt able 
to make any promises about a speedier timescale. 
So in all the circumstances, I dont think Platform misled Mr and Mrs M about how long it 
might take for the application to be progressed. It was Mr and Mrs Ms choice to put an offer 
in on a property with a five-week deadline for exchange of contracts before fully establishing 
that theyd (a) be able to port their existing mortgage and (b) be able to do so within the 
five-week deadline to exchange contracts.
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that Platform didnt return calls when it said it would, and that it 
appeared  at least initially  to stick to its strict policy guidelines without fully taking on 
board Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances. I am satisfied this caused them some upset. But the issue was resolved within four days when Platform said on 7 June 2019 that it would allow 
an application to port.
Given this, Im satisfied that the compensation offered of £150 is fair and proportionate to the 
errors made over such a short period of time. I dont think it would be reasonable to order 
Platform either to refund the ERC or to pay any further compensation.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs M were hoping for. I can tell from their 
correspondence that they feel a deep sense of grievance about how unfairly they believe 
theyve been treated. But, other than the minor customer service issues Ive identified above, 
which took place over a very short period of time, I dont think Platform has done anything 
wrong in relation to this matter. Platform was entitled to charge the ERC under the terms of 
the mortgage contract. And Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M werent misled by Platform about the 
likely timescale for completing the application. Ultimately it was Mr and Mrs Ms decision to 
go to another lender, and so the ERC has been fairly charged by Platform.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay compensation of £150 to Mr and Mrs M for distress and 
inconvenience. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman