DRN-4061945
The complaint
Mr F complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to notify him the cashback 
benefit of his credit card was ceasing.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts leading to this complaint are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons 
for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the overall conclusion reached by the investigator. Ill explain 
why:
Its not disputed a business can make changes to how its products operate. Mr F 
acknowledges Nationwide are entitled to stop paying cashback on his credit card 
spend. Rather, its their failure to notify him of the change which he complains about. 
I agree a business should give notification to a consumer of any changes proposed 
to the applicable terms and conditions. So, Ive considered if Nationwide did this.
Ive seen Nationwide sent Mr F a statement on 8 October 2020. This statement 
included a summary of changes to Mr Fs credit card agreement including the 
removal of the cash rewards feature from 1 December 2020.
Ive considered that Mr F disputes a statement was sent to him because hed not 
used the card in the months prior. I understand he feels strongly that this is an 
industry standard, and any statement presented as evidence by Nationwide must be 
generic or a fabrication. 
But Ive reviewed all the evidence available to me in detail and Im satisfied a 
statement was sent regardless of any inactivity on the account. In this case the 
statement was sent specifically because of the changes to the agreement being 
made.
The statement itself advised Mr F  We have sent this statement to you as we are 
making changes to your agreement. A summary of the changes and a copy of the 
new agreement have been included for you to read.
I cant say for certain the statement was received by Mr F however Ive seen it was 
correctly addressed. The vast majority of correctly addressed post is safely received. 
But in any case, Im satisfied it was sent by Nationwide  which is the test I must use 
 and I cant hold them responsible for any issues with delivery once sent.
In summary, Im satisfied Nationwide did notify Mr F the cashback feature of his 
credit card would cease from 1 December 2020, so I dont think theyve done 
anything wrong here.
It follows, while I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed with my findings, I wont be asking 
Nationwide to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman