DRN-3227198
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the poor service provided by UK Insurance Limited (UKI) 
when they made a claim under their home emergency insurance policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have a home emergency insurance policy thats underwritten by UKI. In 
April 2021 they reported a blocked toilet and an engineer attended later that day. Mr and 
Mrs W say the engineer did nothing that evening as it was too late in the day. UKI say the 
engineer tried unblocking the toilet but couldnt do so and noted that the toilet would need to 
be moved to clear the blockage. But as it was late, the engineer said hed return.
The same engineer returned two days later. He again failed to clear the blockage and said 
hed need to remove the toilet to get access to the pipework. To do that hed need to take up 
some floor tiles and said that Mr and Mrs W wouldnt be covered under their home 
emergency policy for reinstating those tiles. They contacted UKI and were told by an adviser 
that the reinstatement would be covered under their buildings and contents insurance policy. 
But when they contacted their home insurer, they were told that was incorrect, and they were 
unlikely to be covered under their buildings and contents insurance. They decided not to 
proceed that day.
Mr and Mrs W then decided to remove the floor tiles themselves and asked UKI to return. A 
different engineer attended the next day and managed to clear the blockage without moving 
the toilet. Mr and Mrs W say the engineer told them it should never have been necessary to 
remove the toilet and he made some disparaging remarks about the previous engineer.
Mr and Mrs W complained to UKI. They said theyd acted on the advice of the first engineer 
and had been left with the cost of repairing the tiles on their bathroom floor and a bath panel 
that had been damaged when removing the tiles. They were also upset theyd been told their 
buildings and contents insurance would cover the reinstatement of the tiles, and then been 
told they wouldnt be covered.
UKI didnt think the engineer could have done anything differently. It said two attempts had 
been made to clear the blockage using conventional methods. And as there were no other 
access points to the pipework, the only alternative was to remove the toilet to gain access. 
UKI also thought it was reasonable for its adviser to recommend Mr and Mrs W contact their 
main home insurer to clarify whether or not the reinstatement of the tiles was covered under 
their buildings and contents cover. Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and brought their 
complaint to this service. They said they were considerably out of pocket because of the 
poor advice given by UKI and wanted to be financially compensated for the reinstatement of 
the floor tiles and bath panel.
Our investigator noted there were some discrepancies about what had happened when the 
first engineer attended. But said he had to rely on the evidence available to him. That 
showed there were two attempts to unblock the toilet and so he thought the engineer was 
justified in saying hed need to remove the toilet. He recognised it must have been confusing 
for Mr and Mrs W to be told theyd be covered under their buildings and contents insurance 
to have their tiles reinstated and then that they wouldnt be covered. But he said the tiles 
were taken up after this misunderstanding had been cleared up and so the impact of the 
mistake was relatively low. He didnt think UKI needed to take any further action.
As Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, their complaint has been forwarded to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W but, having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion 
as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Let me explain why. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
The first issue here is about the wrong information Mr and Mrs W received from UKI as to 
whether their buildings and contents insurance would cover them for the reinstatement of 
their floor tiles. They wanted to know this as theyd already been told they wouldnt be 
covered under their home emergency policy for reinstating the tiles and they wanted 
clarification before the engineer started removing the toilet. They were initially told they 
would be covered under their buildings and contents policy but then that they wouldnt be. I 
can understand why Mr and Mrs W were upset and annoyed by this but the confusion was 
short-lived and theres no dispute that they were aware they werent covered before they 
started removing the floor tiles themselves. So, when Mr and Mrs W removed the floor tiles 
they understood theyd be responsible for the cost of reinstating them. 
The second issue is whether UKI should take responsibility for that cost. If I thought the 
engineer had acted unreasonably in saying the toilet needed to be removed when that 
wasnt necessary, I think Mr and Mrs W would have been treated unfairly and Id look to UKI 
to put things right. But did the engineer act unreasonably? 
Mr and Mrs W think the removal of the toilet was unnecessary because the second engineer 
was able to clear the blockage by conventional means, without moving the toilet. They say 
the second engineer also made some comments that led them to believe the first engineer 
hadnt been carrying out his work correctly, nor to a good quality standard. Mr and Mrs W 
also question what the first engineer said about his first visit, saying that he didnt try to 
remove the blockage as it was too late in the day and he wouldnt be able to get any spare 
parts if that proved necessary. I have no reason to doubt what Mr and Mrs W have said 
about the first engineer. Not only about the quality of his workmanship but also about what 
he did when he attended their property on both occasions. And there might well be question 
marks about the quality of his work. But I also need to take account of the written evidence 
Ive seen, which indicates that the first engineer did try to remove the blockage on both 
occasions he attended. And if he did that, I think it would be reasonable for him to consider 
other alternatives. As there was no other way of accessing the pipework behind or 
underneath the toilet, removing the toilet to gain access seems to me to be a reasonable 
approach to take.
On balance, and having weighed up the evidence carefully, I dont think it would be fair to say the first engineer made a mistake by saying the toilet needed to be moved. I recognise 
the second engineer took a different approach but that doesnt necessarily mean the first 
approach was wrong. I also recognise that Mr and Mrs W have been led to believe the first 
engineer had a history of poor quality workmanship. But I dont think it would be fair to say 
the first engineer got it wrong solely based on the hearsay of the second engineer and in the 
absence of any further evidence about that. 
In light of the above, I dont think UKI need to take responsibility for the cost of reinstating 
the floor tiles that were moved, or the bath panel that was damaged. Im sorry to hear about 
the problems Mr and Mrs W experienced but, for the reasons Ive given, I dont think UKI 
needs to do anything differently.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman