DRN-1587192
 
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about the way he has been treated when he lost his job and was 
struggling financially and about the charges applied for his overdraft.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Before being unemployed Mr K had a regular income going into his account and he 
made regular use of his overdraft but didnt go over its limit. But after his 
circumstances changed he went over the overdraft limit on occasions. He 
subsequently started receiving universal credit.
Lloyds applied a fee holiday to Mr Ks account so he wouldnt be charged overdraft 
charges for 30 days. That was reasonable as he said he was going back into work 
soon. And it gave him details of its own support departments and some external 
organisations which might be able to assist. It also gave him another 30 day fee 
holiday to allow him time to contact them for help. That was fair.
Overall, given what it knew about Mr Ks circumstances, I think Lloyds has acted 
fairly and reasonably and done enough to assist him. It also applied the overdraft 
charges in line with the accounts terms and conditions and didnt contribute to Mr Ks 
financial difficulties. So, I cant fairly or reasonably require Lloyds to do anything more 
or differently. 
If Mr K continues to experience financial difficulties he can contact Lloyds with more 
information including about his income and expenditure. And I would remind Lloyds 
that it should treat him positively and sympathetically while he is in financial difficulty.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My Final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman