DRN-3618356
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Melton Mowbray Building Society (Melton Mowbray) acted 
unreasonably when it closed his savings account.
Background 
Mr T held a fixed rate savings account with Melton Mowbray. In 2020 Mr T contacted the 
building society to begin arranging the closure of an account held by a close family member 
who had sadly passed away. During that exchange Mr T found it necessary to make a 
number of complaints when the requested account closure and linked balance transfer 
werent completed in way he had expected them to be.
Following the issues regarding his family members account Melton Mowbray made the 
decision to close Mr Ts saving accounts as it felt the relationship between it and Mr T had 
broken down and Mr T was clearly unhappy with the customer service levels he was 
receiving. So, it issued Mr T with a closure letter explaining his account would be closed in 
30 days. 
Mr T was extremely unhappy with the decision to close his account and believes it was 
unwarranted and the business was effectively punishing him for complaining when he says 
he had due cause to. He asked that his account be reopened.
Melton Mowbray refused and stated that under the terms and conditions of Mr Ts account 
the business was entitled to close it and that it wasnt a result of the complaints he had made 
but rather the breakdown of trust between the parties that had resulted in the decision to 
close the account.
Unhappy with Melton Mowbrays decision Mr T brought his complaint to this service. One of 
our adjudicators has looked into it already. She found that under the terms and conditions of 
the account Melton Mowbray were entitled to close Mr Ts savings account provided it gave 
him sufficient notice. In this instance she was satisfied that that notice had been given and 
so she didnt think the business had done anything wrong in how it had managed the 
account closure and she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr T remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review his case again and so its 
been passed to me to consider. 
My Finding
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why. First, Im very 
aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here: was it fair and reasonable Melton Mowbray to 
close Mr Ts fixed term savings account the way that it did? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Mr T has alleged that the sole reason Melton Mowbray decided to close his account is 
because he had cause to complain about issues he had experienced when trying to arrange 
the closure of a family members account and linked transfer of funds. He says that Melton 
Mowbray failed show any empathy for him given he experienced two close family members 
passing away in a short space of time. He believes the decision to close the account was 
unreasonable, unwarranted, and insensitive. He has also mentioned a number of errors in 
letters he received around this time and the unprofessional manner which he believes he 
was treated. 
Melton Mowbray have said that it is entitled to close the account of any member of the 
building society it chooses. It has referred back to the terms and conditions that all members 
must adhere to and says that under those terms it was entitled to close Mr Ts account. In 
particular it has relied on the following clause found on page 16 of its rules:
.the Society may terminate the membership rights of a Shareholding Memberas follows:
a)
(i) with immediate effect if:
he has been physically or verbally abusive to the Societys staff;
the Society reasonably suspects that his share account is being used for an illegal 
purpose; or
the Society has any other valid reason for immediately terminating his membership 
rights as a Shareholding Member.
Melton Mowbray is relying on the final clause cited above to justify the closure of Mr Ts 
account. While I appreciate it is vague and that any other valid reason could be applied 
across a board spectrum of reasons, the rules do allow for the Building Society to end its 
relationship with Members if it so chooses providing the correct processes are followed. And 
in this instance the correct process was to give Mr T a months notice so he could arrange 
for his funds to be moved elsewhere. And Melton Mowbray did this. 
I appreciate Mr T wanted his account to remain open and that he believes the closure was 
unjustified and unnecessary. However just as consumers are free to close accounts and 
move from financial business to financial business without having to provide justifications, 
businesses are also entitled to decide whom they provide services to. And in this instance 
Melton Mowbray decided it was no longer possible to provide Mr T with services in the 
manner which he expected them. So, it made the decision to end the relationship. This is 
something it is allowed to do and so I cant uphold Mr Ts complaint on this basis as I cant 
say the business has done anything wrong in how it closed his account. 
Melton Mowbray has also confirmed that at the point Mr Ts account was closed it refunded 
him with not only the savings and interest he had already accumulated in the account but 
also added on the additional interest he wouldve earned had the account continued to its 
original end date. I think this was a reasonable action for Melton Mowbray to take and has 
allowed Mr T to still have the benefit of the account despite it closing earlier than planned.
Therefore, having taken everything Mr T has said into consideration, as well as everything 
Melton Mowbray has said, I dont think the business did anything wrong when it chose to end its relationship with Mr T. I know Mr T will disagree with the points Ive made but I hope I 
have clarified why Ive come to the outcome I have.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against Melton Mowbray 
Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman