DRN-4066228
The complaint
Miss E complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Clydesdale) has acted 
unfairly in relation to a loan it provided her with.
What happened
Clydesdale approved Miss E for a £6,400 loan. Miss E says this loan was used to settle a 
third-party loan (Ill refer to this as Bank As loan) which had been taken through coercion. 
Miss E was a victim of financial and economic abuse from her ex-partner, who she says 
forced her to take out Bank As loan for his benefit. 
Miss E has requested that considering the circumstances of this loan that the remaining 
balance  approximately £2,600  be written off. She says this is because the funds were 
used to settle a debt which wasnt hers. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint; and felt that Clydesdale did not need to write off 
the amount outstanding. Whilst sympathising with the circumstances surrounding Miss Es 
complaint, he said this loan was not taken out through coercion and as such writing off the 
remaining balance was not appropriate. He recommended that Clydesdale treat the debt as 
non-pursuant, and that it continued to remove any interest and charges which had been 
applied to the loan (something which Clydesdale had already agreed to do).
Miss E disagreed with the investigators recommendation. She maintained the loan balance 
should be written off, and that the redress proposed would not improve her situation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties are aware of the circumstances surrounding this complaint. Miss E has been 
very open with our service regarding very difficult circumstances. I cant imagine this was 
easy for her, so Im grateful for the information she has provided. I can assure her Ive very 
carefully considered all the information she has provided. 
Miss E has repaid over half of the existing capital balance; and says there is little reasonable 
prospect of her being in a financially stable position that shell be able to repay the remaining 
balance (£2,600). She has explained that writing off the remaining debt will enable her to get 
to a position where she is more financially stable. She maintains she has not had the use of 
the funds of this loan, as it was taken out as a consequence of her previous coercive and 
abusive relationship.
I have very carefully considered Miss Es arguments, but whilst I sympathise with the wider 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that this debt should be written off. I know this will come 
as a disappointment to her.
I think it is important to set out the Clydesdale has removed all interest and charges from the 
loan at this point. The majority of all of the payments which Miss E has made has reduced 
her capital amount. This means she is only paying back the funds that were used by her to 
settle the previous loan. This will also be the case going forward. 
I appreciate Miss E argues she has not had use of these funds, and again whilst I do 
understand her point of view, Im not persuaded that I agree with this. Whilst Ive no reason 
to doubt her information about how she came to take out Bank As loan, there is acceptance 
that she was not coerced into taking this particular loan with Clydesdale. Miss E has 
explained the original debt from Bank As loan is not hers, and therefore she should not have 
to repay it. However, this loan settled the loan with Bank A and therefore she did use the 
funds of this loan as result. Whilst she may have concerns with Bank As loan and use of 
those funds, ultimately this isnt something I can hold Clydesdale responsible for.  And if 
Miss E is unhappy with the circumstances of her indebtedness as a result of Bank As loan, 
this is a matter shell need to take up with it, rather than Clydesdale.  
From what Ive seen Im satisfied Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with 
this loan. Miss E has made Clydesdale aware of her wider circumstances and it has taken 
the matter seriously (as it should).  And it exercised forbearance and due consideration once 
it became apparent that Miss E was having difficulty making her payments. In particular it 
has removed the interest and charges from the loan and has been working with Miss E to 
make small repayments towards it. Following our investigators view, it has also now agreed 
to treat the debt as non-pursuant, instead of having regular reviews with Miss E to 
understand her financial circumstances going forward. 
I have considered Miss Es financial position in regard to her ability to repay this debt. She 
has provided some information in terms of her outgoings and expenses. It may be 
appropriate to ask for a business to consider writing off a debt in certain circumstances. And 
Ive considered whether this would be appropriate here.
However, having reviewed the information Miss E has provided, Im not satisfied it is 
appropriate for me to direct Clydesdale to write off the balance here. Whilst I dont doubt the 
situation she has described; she is also again working (albeit part time). I also note she says 
she has other creditors she is continuing to make payments to. I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to require Clydesdale to write off its outstanding balance, in these 
circumstances, especially as it has agreed not to pursue the debt unless and until Miss Es 
circumstances change for the better. 
Whilst I appreciate Miss E disagrees with how matters are being put right here, Im satisfied 
that Clydesdale treating the debt as non-pursuant and not adding any interest or charges to 
the amount borrowed, is the fairest outcome in this particular instance. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right in this instance, as has been agreed previously, I require 
Clydesdale to:
Ensure Miss E, in total, pays no more than the £6,400 she was initially lent;
Treat Miss Es account as non-pursuant. This should be regularly reviewed. Miss Es 
circumstances (no sooner than every six months) should be reviewed to establish 
whether there have been any changes to her personal or financial situation that 
would enable her to continue with making repayments towards the loan. And, other 
than the reviews I think it should carry out, Clydesdale should not actively contact or 
pursue Miss E for the debt. If and when Miss E is in a position to sustainably repay 
the loan, then Clydesdale and Miss E should work together to come up with a suitable repayment plan. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money should put things right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman