DRN-2891800
The complaint
Miss G complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) failed to carry out her fathers request to add her 
name to his bank accounts.
What happened
Miss G say she made an appointment in July 2020 with TSB to hold a meeting, along with 
her father, to have her name added to his bank accounts. Miss G says this was needed as 
her father had become frail and he wished her to have easy access to the bank account 
balances in the event of anything happening to him. Miss G says in the meeting, 
documentation was completed, and she left the meeting believing she had been added to 
her fathers bank accounts as he wished. In late September 2020 Miss G contacted TSB as 
she noticed her name wasnt on her fathers latest bank statement. Miss G said eventually 
TSB came back to her stating more paperwork needed completing before the request could 
be actioned. Miss G Says TSB had said they tried to contact her father by telephone but 
were unable to get in touch, despite the fact she had asked them to contact her if there were 
any issues, given her fathers frailty, but they hadnt. 
Sadly, Miss Gs father passed away before TSB could add her to her fathers accounts. Miss 
G says TSBs actions put her in financial difficulties and caused her extreme stress during an 
already difficult time. Miss G requested that TSB should allow her access to her fathers 
bank accounts as he wished. 
TSB says while they accept, they provided a poor service to Miss G in the initial meeting, 
they had a right to protect their customers if they had any concerns about the addition of a 
third party to the bank accounts.  
Miss G decided to refer the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Miss Gs complaint. The 
investigator felt TSBs actions in failing to add Miss G to her late fathers bank accounts had 
led to her having to apply for probate with the costs involved. The investigator also felt that 
TSB had put Miss G to unnecessary inconvenience and provided poor customer service. 
The investigator felt TSB should cover the costs of applying for probate and a further £150 
for the trouble and upset caused.
TSB werent happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I was sorry to learn of the passing of Miss Gs father and I can see it would have been 
upsetting for her to have learnt she hadnt been added to her late fathers bank accounts, 
despite their instructions to do so. I can see this would have added to an already stressful 
time and caused inconvenience to Miss G. When looking at this complaint I will consider if 
TSB acted reasonably after Miss G and her father visited the bank to arrange for her to be 
added to his bank accounts. 
What happened here was Miss G says she and her elderly father visited his local TSB 
branch, by appointment, to add her name to his bank accounts. Miss G says this was 
because her father was frail, and he wanted her to be added to his bank accounts to avoid 
red tape in the event of anything happening to him. Miss G says in the meeting both her 
and her father made clear to the member of staff why her name needed to be added to the 
bank accounts and the member of staff acknowledged this. Miss G says she made clear to 
the member of staff, after completing the paperwork, to contact her if anything else was 
needed. 
What followed was TSB didnt add Miss Gs name to the bank accounts, but instead 
arranged the completion of a third-party mandate. TSB says after the meeting had taken 
place, they were uncomfortable with the addition of Miss G to her elderly fathers bank 
accounts, as they felt he may not have fully understood the implications of this. 
I have considered the points made by both parties when coming to an impartial decision 
here. Clearly, I have no evidence to support what was said during the meeting or agreed at 
that time, so I have to base my decision on what, in all probability, was agreed.
The first thing to say is Miss G left the meeting believing she had been added to her fathers 
bank accounts as that was the purpose of arranging the meeting. TSB havent provided any 
evidence to support why they decided to complete a third-party mandate which wouldnt 
have provided the assurance Miss G needed in the event of her fathers passing. Its fair to 
say I wouldnt expect a customer to understand what forms were required here, that is 
something I would expect TSB to advise on. I say this because from the copy of the late Mr 
Gs will provided to this service, the majority of his estate was left to Miss G which supports 
Miss Gs version of events that it was likely he would have wanted her to be added to the 
account to avoid any difficulties in settling his estate. So, I am satisfied at least, that is why 
the meeting was arranged and Miss G and her late father did want her name added to the 
bank accounts and, in all likelihood, this would have been explained in that meeting. So, its 
fair to say on balance, TSB didnt complete the correct type of bank account application and 
mandate in that meeting. 
That said, TSB says they were uncomfortable following the meeting, that Miss Gs father 
was fully aware of what he was signing or agreeing to. I have no issue with that and its fair 
and reasonable for TSB to ensure they protect their customers best interests. What I dont 
support, is the way in which TSB then dealt with their concerns about the addition of Miss G 
to her fathers bank accounts. I have asked TSB to provide me with evidence to support 
what actions they took to contact Miss Gs father as they say they did, but this hasnt been 
provided to me. That said, on balance I am satisfied TSB did try to contact Miss Gs father by 
telephone, a few days following the meeting. Having said that, I cant see this one attempted 
telephone call was followed up, or TSB ever informed either party they would not allow Miss 
G to have any authority on the bank accounts. I say this, as this was after it had led Miss G 
to believe they had carried out her and her fathers written instructions, following the 
documentation signed in the meeting.  
Given the importance here, I would have expected TSB to have done more to ensure they 
took steps to inform both parties that Miss G was not being added, or allowed to act as a 
signatory, to the bank accounts following the meeting they had. From the information I have 
seen, even though Miss G had contacted TSB to understand why she hadnt yet been added to the bank accounts, TSB didnt take any further action and matters only came to a head 
following the passing of Miss Gs father. By which time it was too late for Miss G to make any 
alternative arrangements. I say this because given the trouble Miss G had gone to, in 
organising her late fathers affairs up until that point, its reasonable to say, in all likelihood, 
she would have taken other steps to simplify her fathers affairs, knowing how frail he had 
become. Its fair to say, TSBs lack of proactivity here, prevented Miss G from having other 
options open to her.
This resulted in Miss G having to apply for probate following her fathers death and this could 
have been avoided if TSB had taken what actions it deemed necessary, to carry out the 
instructions they were given in the meeting in July 2020.
While TSB will be disappointed with my decision, I support the investigators view they 
should have done more here and should cover the probate application fee and pay £150 for 
the trouble and upset caused to Miss G. 
Putting things right
I instruct TSB Bank plc to cover the probate application fee and pay Miss G £150 for the 
trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct TSB Bank plc to cover the probate application fee and pay Miss G £150 for the 
trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman