DRN-4331531
The complaint
Mrs L complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) charged an 
incorrect amount on a transaction.
What happened
In April 2023 Mrs L purchased 5 flights using her American Express card. The flights 
shouldve cost around £320 each.
Mrs L received a text alert advising her that she had exceeded the credit limit on her card. 
She checked her account and found that each flight had been charged at £32,007.00
Mrs L contacted AESEL. It referred her to the merchant airline. However, it then came to 
light that the error was due to an issue with the decimal point in the Icelandic currency 
conversion rate on AESELs servicing platform, meaning that the transaction had been 
charged at 100 times what it should have been.
AESEL raised disputed transactions and credited Mrs Ls account.
Mrs L was concerned about getting on the flight and getting stuck abroad because AESEL 
had advised her that the merchant might challenge the disputed transaction claim. Because 
of these concerns, Mrs L cancelled the flights and received a refund of £119, and purchased 
flights with an alternative provider at a cost of £2464.50.
Mrs L raised a complaint with AESEL. AESEL upheld the complaint and apologised for the 
error. It credited Mrs Ls account with £75 in recognition of the inconvenience shed 
experienced.
Mrs L remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think that the compensation paid by AESEL 
was a fair reflection of the impact the error had on Mrs L. The investigator said that AESEL 
should pay a further £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience (in addition to the 
£75 already paid) and in addition, that AESEL should cover the difference between the 
tickets of £745.20.
Both Mrs L and AESEL accepted the investigators view. However, AESEL only credited the 
sum of £200 to Mrs Ls account and failed to credit the £745.20.
AESEL later contacted this service and apologised. It said it had overlooked this part of the 
investigators recommendation and said it would action a credit of £745.20 straightaway.
Mrs L said she was no longer willing to accept the investigators recommendation because 
AESEL had failed to implement it.
The complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AESEL has acknowledged that it was responsible for the error in the way that the 
transactions were charged to Mrs Ls account, so I wont be commenting further on this. 
Instead, Ill focus on what is a fair and reasonable resolution to Mrs Ls complaint.
There are two aspects to Mrs Ls complaint. The first aspect is the distress and 
inconvenience she was caused as a result of the error. The second is the financial loss 
suffered by Mrs L when she cancelled her original flights and re-booked with an alternative 
carrier.
Its clear that Mrs L has been caused a significant inconvenience as a result of the error. 
Shes told this service that she had to spend a lot of time on the phone to AESEL trying to 
resolve things. I agree with the investigator that the compensation initially offered by AESEL 
doesnt fairly reflect the impact of the error. I also agree with the investigator that the further 
sum of £200 is a fair and reasonable amount for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Turning now to Mrs Ls financial loss. Mrs L has said that she made AESEL aware of her 
concerns that the flights wouldnt be honoured because of the ongoing disputed transaction 
claim. Mrs L says that she contacted AESEL repeatedly about this but that she wasnt given 
the confirmation that she sought. It was as against this background that Mrs L says that she 
felt that she had no option but to cancel the flights and rebook them with a different airline.
I understand why Mrs L acted as she did. However, I do have some doubts as to whether 
AESEL could have provided Mrs L with the confirmation that she sought. Only the airline 
would have been able to do this. It isnt clear from the information provided to me whether 
Mrs L sought to confirm that she would be able to board the flights with the airline directly. Its 
for this reason that I dont think it would be fair to ask AESEL to cover the total cost of the 
replacement flights.
That said, I think AESEL should accept some responsibility for not providing Mrs L with clear 
information about the disputed transaction process and whether this could affect her ability 
to use the flights. Im persuaded that Mrs L tried to obtain this information from AESEL but 
didnt receive a timely or clear response. For these reasons I agree with the investigator that 
AESEL should cover the difference between the cost of the tickets (£745.20)
Putting things right
To put things right, American Express Services Europe Limited must pay the further sum of 
£200 compensation for distress and inconvenience. In addition, it must pay the sum of 
£745.20 for the difference in the cost of the tickets.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited 
must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Emma DavyOmbudsman