DRN-4246148
The complaint
Mr E complains that My Finance Club Limited (MFC) gave him a loan without looking at his 
financial situation. Mr E says that, had it made better checks, it wouldve seen that he had a 
bad credit record. 
What happened
Mr E was advanced one loan of £400 on 30 April 2022. The agreement was due to run for 
38 days with one payment due to MFC of £521.60. Mr E had had some problems repaying 
his loan and it wasnt repaid until 31 August 2022.
After Mr E made a complaint about the loan, MFC responded and explained why it wasnt 
going to uphold his complaint. Unhappy with the response, Mr E referred the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman. 
In the investigators assessment, she didnt uphold the complaint because the checks that 
MFC carried out showed it that Mr E should be able to afford his repayment. 
Mr E didnt agree with the outcome, saying proper checks werent carried out because MFC 
didnt review his bank statements. Mr E says that had it looked at his bank statements, MFC 
wouldve concluded the loan wasnt affordable due to his gambling. At this time Mr E 
provided copy bank statements. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MFC had to assess the lending to check if Mr E could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. MFCs checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Es income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MFC should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr E. These factors include:
Mr E having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr E having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr E coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr E. I dont think this applied to Mr Es 
complaint because he only had one loan. 
MFC was required to establish whether Mr E could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayment. Having enough money to 
make the repayment could of course be an indicator that Mr E was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Es complaint.
Before the loan was approved, Mr E declared he earned £3,205 per month. MFC also says 
Mr Es income was checked by obtaining a copy of his pay slip. This confirmed the income 
Mr E had declared was accurate. 
In terms of monthly expenditure, Mr E provided details about his expenditure across several 
different headings such as, utilities, other, food and other credit commitments to name a 
few. MFC says Mr Es outgoings came to £750. Therefore, based on the information it had to 
hand the loan looked affordable as Mr E had sufficient disposable income to afford the 
repayment. 
No housing costs had been declared, but Mr E had told MFC that he lived at home with 
parents and MFC said this was verified using electoral roll data and so this supported Mr Es 
lower levels of regular household expenditure. So, the small housing costs wouldnt have 
been a concern. 
Before the loan was advanced MFC also carried out a credit search and it provided the 
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although 
MFC carried out a credit search there wasnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone 
one to a specific standard. But what MFC couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then 
not react to the to the information it received  if necessary.  
I am satisfied that the credit check results wouldnt have raised any concerns for MFC. It 
knew that Mr E had opened a new loan two months before the MFC loan, and he had 
recently opened a couple of credit cards  and some of the credit limit had been utilised. 
However, there wasnt anything contained within the credit check results that wouldve 
suggested either Mr E was having financial problems or wouldnt be able to make the loan 
repayment. Indeed, there wasnt any adverse payment information recorded against any of 
his open accounts. 
The credit checks wouldnt have raised any concerns and there wasnt anything else that 
ought to have prompted MFC to have either carried out further checks or to have declined 
Mr Es application for credit. 
There were also no triggers in the information given to MFC to have prompted it to have 
reviewed the bank statements. So, while I can see the gambling Mr E has mentioned, I do 
not think MFC wouldve known, or ought to have known, about it given the information it was provided and what it discovered by carrying out a proportionate check. Given the loan value 
and the fact this was the first loan from MFC I think it wouldve been disproportionate for it to 
have considered the bank statements. 
Overall, given this was the only loan, it was reasonable for MFC to have relied on the 
information that Mr E provided about his income and expenditure. The checks MFC carried 
out were proportionate and showed Mr E should be able to afford the repayments.  Finally, 
there also wasnt anything else to suggest that the loan would either be unaffordable or 
unsustainable for him. 
I do not uphold Mr Es complaint about the loan.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman