DRN-1778362
The complaint
 Mr B is unhappy because he believes further damage was caused to his car by Esure 
Insurance Limiteds (Esure) agents following a claim for an accident under his car insurance 
policy.
What happened
 On 21 January 2020, Mr B reported to Esure that his car had been vandalised. The claim 
was considered and the car was collected from Mr B on 24 January and taken to Esure 
agents for inspection. On 29 January, it was declared a total loss (a write off) and it was 
determined the market value of the car was around £5,200. On 3 February, Mr B told Esure 
he wanted to retain the salvage. Once the relevant deductions were made, including the 
salvage amount, Esure said they would pay him around £2,900 to settle the claim. 
When the car was returned to Mr B on 6 February, he complained that it had further damage 
than originally reported as part of the claim. Mr B complained to Esure and they said as he 
chose to retain the salvage, hed done so on the understanding that it was a written off car 
and it wouldve been treated as such. They offered to dispose of the car and pay the full 
market value but Mr B didnt want to do this. 
Mr B said in March, he arranged for repairs to be carried out on this further damage and it 
cost him £1,500. He wanted Esure to reimburse him for this cost.
Unhappy with their response, the complaint was referred to our service. The investigator 
recommended the complaint was upheld. He believed further damage had been caused by 
Esures agents, so he thought it was reasonable for them to pay for the repairs.
Following some back and forth between our service and Esure, they agreed to pay for 
repairs for some of the damage. They said they would pay £591.23 to Mr B. This figure was 
based on the damage their agents had cause and the amount their engineers thought the 
repairs would cost  excluding VAT. This offer was put to Mr B and he accepted it. 
As both parties have accepted the proposed resolution, I will briefly outline my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
When reviewing this complaint, Ive carefully considered the pictures and reports from when 
the car was initially collected on 24 January 2020, the total loss report, dated 29 January 
2020 and the delivery report when it was returned to Mr B on 6 February 2020. 
Ive previously set out to both parties what damage I think was caused by Esures agents. In 
summary, this was the left front door, right front door and right rear door. On balance, Im 
satisfied the damage to the left rear door and to the bonnet was accident related and not 
caused by Esures agents.
While I accept Esure paid the market value of the car and this further damage was 
considered at the time of writing it off, the value of the repair and the decision to write it off 
wouldve been impacted by it. Mr B requested to retain the salvage and he did so on the 
belief that the car would be returned with the accident related damage only. I dont think its 
fair he incurred increased repair costs as a result of the further damage caused whilst in the 
possession of Esures agents. Therefore I believe its reasonable they pay for the repairs 
needed to fix it.
There is some uncertainty about the repairs carried out and how much Mr B paid for them. 
Based on the three areas of further damage, Mr B has provided an invoice which shows it 
cost him £1,200 for the repair. However Esures engineers have provided their own estimate 
and they said it wouldve cost £591.23, excluding VAT. Despite our requests for more 
information about the repair and the garage, this wasnt been forthcoming from Mr B. In the 
absence of further information, I find the estimate provided by Esure to be more specific than 
the invoice provided by Mr B. 
Esure has said they are willing to pay the amount of their estimate £591.23, excluding VAT 
and I believe this is a fair way to resolve the complaint. As the garage that carried out the 
repair wasnt VAT registered, I believe its reasonable for them not to pay this amount. Mr B 
has agreed to accept this offer.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
To settle the complaint, Esure Insurance Limited should pay Mr B £591.23 plus 8% simple 
interest per year added from the date of the repair garage invoice (16 March 2020) up to the 
date of settlement.
If Esure Insurance Limited considers that it's required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) 
to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr B how much it's taken off. It should 
also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HMRC, if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman