DRN-2948008
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as G has complained that HDI Global SE unfairly turned down its
business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due to the Covid-19
pandemic.
Ms H and Mr M, directors of G, have brought the complaint on Gs behalf.
What happened
G held a business interruption insurance policy with HDI. It claimed on its policy after closing
on 20 March 2020 due to the Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
HDI said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable
disease at the premises, G had closed as a result of the Government Act in response to the
national pandemic. As HDI thought G had closed in response to the national lockdown,
rather than because someone at their premises had Covid-19, HDI turned down its claim.
G was unhappy with HDIs response and brought the complaint to our service. It said one of
its employees went on holiday on 14 March 2020 but was forced to come home early. On
their return, the employee felt unwell with symptoms of Covid-19 and was told to self-isolate
after calling 111. G provided a copy of its employees isolation note and diary entries to show
they had been in work on 11 March 2020. G said it had received the employees backdated
sick note on the same day it had been forced to close by the Government.
G thought HDI should pay its claim as it had been forced to close and lost income and stock.
G also asked whether the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys
(FCA) test case meant its claim should be paid. It also asked whether any other terms within
its policy would provide cover for the circumstances of its claim. It said it was impossible to 
prove whether its employee had Covid-19. However, the employee would have been around 
other staff and customers while at work and also said someone else at the premises had 
been unwell at around the same time.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 July 2021 where I explained why I 
didnt think HDI needed to do anything further. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact
on Gs business. But Im not going to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to
see if HDI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Gs claim.
The most relevant part of Gs policy covers loss as a result of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the 
approval of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a 
Notifiable Human Disease occurring at the Premises
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as:
An illness sustained by any person caused by
a) food or drink poisoning
b) any human infectious or contagious disease
an outbreak of which the competent public authority has stipulated shall be
notified to them
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on
the business premises to have been the result of a case of the notifiable human disease
occurring at the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, so Ive then considered the
information I have to decide if I think its more likely than not that there was a case of Covid-
19 at Gs premises.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19,
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive
test result, or conclusive diagnosis, from that period. To treat that as a minimum requirement
would, in my view, be unfair.
Therefore, its necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder
to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers.
G has provided a handwritten note in a diary from 11 March 2020 with the same name as
the employee who is named on self-isolation notes dated 16 March 2020 and 20 March
2020. G said the names in the diary reflect who was working on that date.
Gs employee clearly believed they had Covid-19 and took action based on that belief. The
self-isolation notes also say that the employee had symptoms of Covid-19. However, I also
have to bear in mind that many people who experienced symptoms of Covid-19, didnt
actually have the disease.
I understand that the incubation period for Covid-19 means that if the employee did have
Covid-19 then they could potentially have contracted it prior to 11 March 2020 if they had
then developed symptoms on 16 March 2020. However, they could also have contracted it in
the few days before 16 March 2020 while on holiday.
G told our investigator that their employee would have been around other employees and
customers on 11 March 2020 and has suggested that one other employee was unwell
around the same time. However, G hasnt provided any evidence to indicate that the other
employee had Covid-19 and hasnt suggested that any other people became unwell.
As its impossible to know whether Gs employee had Covid-19 without a test, I have to
decide what I think is most likely when considering the information I have available. In this
case, I dont think I have enough to conclude that, on the balance of probabilities, someone
on Gs premises had Covid-19 before it closed on 20 March 2020.G also referred to the Supreme Court judgment on the FCAs test case. However, the test
case didnt consider all policies or all terms, and whether a claim should be paid depends on
the terms contained in the relevant policy. Ive reviewed Gs policy and Im afraid that I dont
think there are any other terms that cover the circumstances of its claim.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Ms H and Mr M, but having considered this
matter very carefully, I dont intend to require HDI to pay Gs claim.
Neither HDI nor G responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither HDI nor G responded, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman