DRN-3998239
The complaint
Miss C complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSD) didnt do enough to help her 
recover her money after she mistakenly instructed it to transfer share dealing proceeds to an 
incorrect bank account. She feels the mental stress and anguish she experienced warrants a 
significant payment of compensation. 
What happened
Miss C had an execution only account with HSD. In February 2021, following the sale of 
some shares, Miss C arranged the transfer of £10,000 to her bank account. Unfortunately, in 
error, she entered the account details incorrectly and this led to her money being paid into 
someone elses account. 
Within a week, she realised her mistake and on 25 February she phoned HSD for help. HSD 
explained what could happen and told Miss C that it didnt look like the payment had been 
rejected and that she needed to follow up with her bank.  
Subsequently, Miss C had many calls running to several hours in total spent on the phone to 
HSD, trying to find out what was happening and when she would recover her money. 
In April 2021, frustrated at the lack of progress and service she felt she was getting from 
HSD, Miss C complained. HSD partly upheld her complaint. It said, so far as the transfer 
was concerned, it hadnt breached its customer agreement or made any errors. But HSD 
acknowledged that it did not take ownership of retrieving the funds from Miss Cs bank 
when she initially contacted HSD. So it upheld this part of her complaint and for this, it paid 
£50 into Miss Cs bank account. HSD said it would continue to liaise with her bank to retrieve 
her money although it couldnt confirm any timescale for this to complete.
When matters still werent resolved a month or so later, Miss C brought her complaint to us 
and one of our investigators looked into what happened.  
Our investigator initially felt that, based on the information hed seen up to that point, HSD 
should pay Miss C an additional £300 for distress and inconvenience it had caused her. 
Miss C said £300 didnt reflect the distress she was caused and she didn't think it made HSD 
accountable for any fault in its process. 
HSD said it had acted as an execution only stockbroker, carrying out Miss Cs specific 
investment instructions and crediting funds to the bank account she had stipulated. Its view 
was that HSD had fulfilled its duty of care obligation to Miss C following her error and it didnt 
agree with the investigators recommendation to pay her a further £300.
After reviewing all the comments received, the investigator revised his initial view and 
thought HSD had done all that it was reasonably required to do and he didnt recommend it 
needed to take any further action.
Miss C provided recordings of her calls with HSD and, after listening carefully to this new 
information, our investigator looked at the complaint again.
Our investigator felt overall that HSD had fallen short in some respects in terms of managing 
Miss Cs expectations concerning timescales and the likelihood of a successful recovery. But 
he took into account that HSD was dependent on third parties for the recovery process and it 
wasnt responsible for delays in the investigation into the missing payment or the information 
HSD was provided with about what was happening and what to expect. The investigator 
revised his recommendation in the light of all the information hed now been able to take into 
account and felt that total redress of £150 was fair to reflect the extent of the impact of 
HSDs service failings. 
Miss C disagreed with our investigator. In summary, she felt that HSD (along with her bank) 
had failed in its duty of care to support her as a customer. 
So Miss Cs complaint comes to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive 
approached the complaint. I might not mention everything Miss C has brought to my 
attention, but I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint. Theres further information on our website which explains the Financial 
Ombudsman Service approach. 
Theres no dispute about the background facts. Miss C has always accepted that she made 
an error when she updated the bank details for her nominated account and she entered the 
wrong sort code.
Unfortunately, the bank details she provided belonged to a third party. This meant that when 
she withdrew the sum of £10,000 some three weeks or so later, expecting this to be paid to 
her nominated account, that money went instead to the third party. 
HSD said this made it impossible for HSD to recall the funds on Miss Cs behalf. And also 
that, as it had followed her instruction to credit the bank details she provided, it wasnt HSDs 
responsibility to recover the funds.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by both parties and reach an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. I must take into account the 
relevant law, regulatory requirements and best industry practice when deciding if HSD has 
done anything wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Looking at the terms and conditions that applied to Miss Cs account, it was up to Miss C to 
provide the details of her nominated bank account for HSD to use to fund and receive 
amounts from her account. Miss C used her online access to update the sort code and 
account number for the withdrawal from her share dealing account. I wouldnt reasonably 
have expected HSD to check the updated information that Miss C provided and it had no 
particular reason to query with Miss C the account details she provided before actioning her 
payment request.
So I dont find that HSD should have realised that the account linked to the details Miss C 
provided wasnt an account in her name. It follows that I dont find HSD has any responsibility for Miss Cs financial losses arising as a result of her payment going to the 
wrong account as it correctly followed its transfer process and couldnt reasonably have 
known that it was sending her money to a third party. 
Ive thought carefully about whether HSD did enough overall to assist Miss C when she 
contacted it after realising her mistake and the issue of fair redress, which is the main focus 
of Miss Cs complaint. 
I sympathise with Miss C when she says that what happened has meant she suffered, and 
continues to suffer, mental stress and anguish as a result of the entire experience. And 
I think she was reasonably entitled to expect HSD to take reasonable steps to assist her as 
far as it could and treat her fairly.
I've listened to details of the conversations Miss C had with HSD. It was evident to HSD just 
how upset Miss C was by what happened and it was aware that there was a lot of money at 
stake. I think it's fair to say that it sounds like some of the call handlers she spoke to did their 
best to provide reassurance to Miss C and demonstrate a positive attitude in what was 
clearly a difficult situation. But I find this sometimes meant that HSD didnt always manage 
Miss Cs expectations as well as it could have done or give her sufficiently realistic advice 
about likely timescales or her prospects of recovery. This meant HSD didnt do as much as it 
should have done to help Miss C understand what she could reasonably expect. I dont think 
the compensation HSD paid her is enough to reflect this.
HSD has already upheld Miss Cs complaint about the service it initially provided and said 
that it didnt act as quickly as it shouldve done when she first got in touch about what 
happened. Ive considered the extent to which this delay made any overall difference and 
whether, had HSD followed things up with Miss Cs bank sooner, this would have reduced 
the stress suffered by Miss C. 
I think that if the person who received the funds in error had any intention of returning them, 
this would have happened as soon as they saw theyd been paid someone elses money or 
when the bank made contact with them. So although Miss C was reasonably entitled to 
expect HSD to act more quickly, I dont think its likely that HSDs failure to take steps in 
response to Miss Cs concerns as quickly as it agrees it ought to have done made any real 
difference to Miss Cs chance of getting her money back. And given how long Miss C has 
been trying to sort out the problem and recover her money, I dont think HSDs delay at the 
start added significantly to Miss Cs overall distress at what happened. 
But I think HSD was right to acknowledge that it could have done better in terms of its 
customer service and, at a time of great stress for Miss C, I think HSDs failure to respond 
more proactively when Miss C reported what happened would likely have added to her 
anxiety about the situation she was in.
I understand that Miss C will have incurred some expense in the course of making multiple 
calls to HSD. Whilst I can appreciate why Miss C felt she needed to keep calling HSD, I am 
satisfied that HSD had given her assurances about keeping her informed. It did make call 
backs to her and it seems to have kept Miss C updated on developments as far as I would 
reasonably expect it to have done. So I dont think its fair to tell HSD to cover her call costs. 
Although Miss C wants compensation that makes HSD accountable for any faults in its 
process, thats not within my remit. But, like the investigator, I consider that a payment of 
£150 overall would be fair redress to reflect the impact on Miss C of the shortcomings I have 
identified on the part of HSD. This reflects the level of award that this service considers fair 
and reasonable in these circumstances. 
 So HSD needs to take the following action to put things right.
Putting things right
HSD should pay £150 in total to Miss C. So, if HSD has paid £50 already, it should pay 
Miss C a further £100 to put things right.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Halifax Share Dealing Limited to take the steps set out 
above to put things right for Miss C. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman