DRN-4381684
The complaint
Mrs F complains about Group 1 Automotive UK Limited (GAU) and the mis-sale of a GAP 
insurance policy at the time she purchased her car.
What happened
In May 2021, Mrs F purchased a car on a finance agreement, through GAU. Alongside the 
purchase of her car, Mrs F paid an additional £499 for a separate GAP insurance policy.
But Mrs F feels she wasnt made aware of the GAP policy, or its cost, by GAU. And that if 
she had been, she wouldnt have chosen to take out the policy altogether. So, she complaint 
to GAU about this, asking that they refund the GAP policy premium she paid.
GAU responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought theyd followed the 
correct process when selling the policy, which included completing a Demands and Needs 
document, as well as supplying Mrs F with the GAP policy information before agreeing to the 
sale. And they pointed to the Duty of Care document Mrs F signed on 22 May when she 
collected the car, which they felt confirmed Mrs Fs happiness with the GAP policy. So, they 
didnt think they had mis-sold the policy and because of this, they didnt think they needed to 
do anything more. Mrs F remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator requested evidence from GAU to support their position on multiple 
occasions. And to this date, GAU havent provided our service with any information relating 
to the complaint. So, taking this into consideration, our investigator didnt think they were 
satisfied that Mrs F had been made reasonably aware of the GAP policy, and its cost, when 
it sold. So, they recommended GAU refund the total premium Mrs F paid of £449, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date she paid the premium to the date of refund.
Mrs F accepted this recommendation. But GAU didnt respond. And as GAU didnt respond, 
our service must assume they disagree. So, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 September 2023, where I explained my intention to 
uphold the complaint for different reasons to those of our investigator. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, its my intention to 
uphold the complaint. But I intend to uphold the complaint for reasons that differ from the 
view of our investigator. And Ill explain why.
GAU havent provided our service with any information and so, my decision is based on the 
information provided by Mrs F. And where applicable, in line with our services approach, Ive 
made adverse inferences to GAUs failure to engage with our process.
From the documentation Mrs F has sent, I can see GAU sent Mrs F a product document 
pack on 15 May 2021. And Im satisfied this product pack made it reasonably clear the cost 
of the GAP insurance policy, its potential benefits and crucially, that the purchase of GAP is 
optional. So, I think GAU did make it clear that the policy wasnt one Mrs F was obligated to 
purchase. Within this pack, it also contained information about additional tyre insurance, and 
SMART protection.
I can then see that, on the day Mrs F collected her car and the invoice for the purchase was 
dated, Mrs F signed a duty of care document. And this document sets out the products Mrs 
F purchased, alongside her new car.
The document shows that Mrs F purchased GAP insurance, tyre insurance and key 
insurance. But it states that Mrs F declined to purchase SMART protection insurance. So, 
this suggests to me that on the day she collected her car, there was a conversation about 
which additional products she wished to take out.
And in the same document, directly above where Mrs F placed her electronic signature, it 
states that by signing, Mrs F confirmed that the features, benefits and any significant 
exclusions of the products have been fully explained to me and that I have received the 
following documentation for each product each document has been fully explained to me. 
It then shows, in bold, that one of these documents Mrs F confirmed she had received was 
the GAP Document Pack detailing the deferred period.
I wouldnt expect Mrs F to sign this document without reading and fully understanding it. So, 
as she did sign it and Im unable to speculate or evidence exactly what was said to her in 
person, I think its reasonable for me to assume Mrs F was aware she was purchasing a 
GAP insurance policy for an additional amount. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
uphold the complaint on this basis.
But crucially, industry guidelines explain that where a GAP insurance policy is sold, a 
business has an obligation to undertake a suitability assessment to ensure the policy meets 
a customers needs. In this situation, GAU say they did complete this in their final response 
letter. But they havent provided our service with evidence of this assessment and what 
questions were asked.
So, without this information, I dont think I can be satisfied that GAU did complete a suitability 
assessment as Id expect them to do. And because of this, based on the evidence available 
to me, I dont think GAU acted fairly and reasonably when selling the GAP insurance policy 
to Mrs F.
Putting things right
As I dont think GAU acted fairly, Ive then thought about what I think they should do to put 
things right. And any award or direction I make is intended to place Mrs F back in the 
position she wouldve been in, had GAU acted fairly in the first instance.
Had GAU acted fairly, they wouldve completed an adequate suitability assessment. And, 
based on Mrs Fs testimony that she didnt intend on taking a GAP insurance policy as it 
didnt provide her with cover she felt she required, without evidence of an assessment I think 
its fair for me to assume Mrs F wouldnt have met the suitability criteria.
And if that was the case, then Mrs F wouldnt have purchased the GAP insurance policy, at a 
cost of £449. So, to place Mrs F back in this position, I think GAU should refund this amount 
to Mrs F, plus 8% simple interest from the date she paid the premium to the date of refund, 
to recognise the time shes been without access to these funds. And this is what I intend to 
direct GAU to do.
ResponsesMrs F responded to the provisional decision and accepted the overall outcome, although she 
reiterated her belief that she wasnt made aware of the GAP insurance and its costs. Mrs F 
also referred to additional fees she felt remained unaccounted for, that werent stated in the 
Consumer Credit Agreement. 
GAU didnt respond to the provisional decision and so, provided no further comments. As 
GAU didnt respond, I must assume they didnt accept the outcome and so, Ive proceeded 
to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my initial conclusions.
GAU havent responded to the provisional decision and so, I havent seen evidence that 
satisfies me GAU completed a suitability assessment as Id expect them to do. Because of 
this, I dont think I can say they acted fairly and reasonably when selling the GAP insurance 
policy to Mrs F.
I understand Mrs F has accepted the overall outcome but has maintained her belief the 
policy itself was mis-sold, without her awareness. While I appreciate Mrs Fs comments, I 
think my original provisional decision set out clearly my thoughts on this. And even though I 
havent upheld the complaint on this basis, I note Mrs F is happy to accept the direction Ive 
set out below. So, I dont think its necessary for me to comment on this point any further.
I note Mrs F has also referred to additional money she feels is unaccounted for, that she 
intended to be used as a deposit to clear some of the total finance cost set out within her 
Consumer Credit Agreement for the car itself. This isnt something Im able to consider 
further under this complaint reference, as this decision focuses solely on the sale of the GAP 
insurance, which is the point GAU responded to in their complaint response. Should Mrs F 
wish to continue with a complaint about this additional unaccounted payment, she would 
need to raise this with GAU, and our service, separately. 
Putting things right
Mrs F has accepted the direction and award I set out within my provisional decision. In the 
provisional decision, I explained my intention to direct GAU to refund Mrs F the total GAP 
insurance policy premium she paid, totalling £449. And that GAU should apply 8% simple 
interest from the date Mrs F paid the premium to the date of refund, to recognise the time 
shes been without access to these funds. GAU have provided no further information to 
change my initial conclusion, and so, this is what I am now directing GAU to do.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Fs complaint about Group 1 Automotive UK 
Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Refund Mrs F the £499 premium she paid, plus 8% simple interest from the date she 
paid the premium, to the date of refund.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman