DRN-4356546
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim they made on their 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have a travel insurance policy connected to their bank account. Mr K became 
ill whilst he was abroad and incurred significant medical expenses. They contacted their 
insurer on their return to the UK to make a claim. 
The claim was declined as Aviva said that Mr K hadnt declared medical conditions to them. 
They said that there was no cover under the policy where a condition hadnt been declared. 
Mr and Mrs K complained but Aviva maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
looked into what had happened. He didnt think it was unreasonable for Aviva to reject the 
claim based on the policy terms and the available medical evidence. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review their complaint. In summary, 
they didnt agree Mr Ks medical condition was directly or indirectly linked to a pre-existing 
medical condition. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions say that there is no cover for: 
Any medical condition unless you have told us about it and we have agreed to cover 
the condition and confirmed this in writing. 
Any symptoms you (or the insured person) were aware of before Purchasing this 
Pack or booking a trip (whichever is later) that youve sought, but not yet received, a 
diagnosis for
Medical condition is defined as: 
Any illness, injury or disease where in the 12 months before purchasing the policy or 
booking a trip (whichever is later) an insured person has:
Been prescribed medication, including newly prescribed or repeat medication; 
and/or
Received or is awaiting medical treatment, tests or investigations; and/or
Been referred to, or had a follow up with a specialist; and/or
Been admitted to hospital or had surgery.
There are instructions in the policy terms about when a policyholder needs to declare the 
conditions to Aviva. 
Was it unreasonable for Aviva to decline the claim?
I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to reject Mr and Mrs Ks claim.  
Mr and Mrs K travelled on their holiday in January 2022. He was diagnosed with right kidney 
obstructive uropathy and septic shock. He later had surgery for a kidney stone and was 
readmitted for a urinary tract infection (UTI). 
Mr Ks GP completed a form when he made his claim. The GP was asked if Mr K was under 
review, having tests or investigations, or awaiting results for any existing diagnosed or 
undiagnosed medical conditions. The GP confirmed that he was under the urology team 
awaiting a cystoscopy and urodynamic assessment. He was also waiting for a colonoscopy 
having been seen by a specialist due to symptoms of diarrhoea. When asked if Mr K had 
any serious chronic or recurring illness which required advice, medication or treatment the 
GP said: 
Urinary Tract Infection  seen and investigated and discharged from urology Aug 
2019. Seen by urology in 12/4/2021 awaiting investigation. 
The medical form also listed chronic kidney disease, urine infections and diarrhoea (under 
investigation) on the list of conditions. 
Ive also taken into account the evidence from Mr Ks consultants which also confirms his 
diagnosis of chronic kidney disease. In April 2021 Mr Ks consultant urological surgeon said 
that he presented with a long history of bothersome mixed lower urinary tract infection. Mr K 
was referred for the cystoscopy and urodynamic assessment.  In December 2021 he was 
referred for a colonoscopy due to diarrhoea, lower abdominal pain and weight loss. 
Mr K didnt let Aviva know about these investigations, which were ongoing at the point that 
he travelled in January 2022. I think he should have done, in line with the policy terms Ive 
outlined above. If he had Aviva would have confirmed that they wouldnt have covered these 
issues as they were undiagnosed and under investigation. So, I think Aviva acted reasonably 
when declining to cover the claim.
In any event, Ive considered whether it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude that the 
conditions were linked to the illness Mr K experienced abroad. The notes say that he was 
admitted with right loin to groin pain and fevers x 1 day, loose stools 3/52, vomiting  1 
episode. His diagnoses include right kidney obstructive uropathy and septic shock, acute 
kidney injury and acute gastro enteritis (although a question mark appears next to this 
diagnosis). Other diagnoses are also mentioned including thrombocytopenia and Acute 
Respiratory Distress Syndrome.
Given Mr Ks history of symptoms and his pre-existing medical conditions I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that there was a connection between them. Mr K was 
under investigation by both a consultant urologist and a colorectal consultant for symptoms 
similar to those reported on his admission to hospital. Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs K have said about Mr Ks medical history, including why they believe the investigative 
tests in the UK wouldnt have identified the condition Mr K became ill with. However, based 
on the medical evidence I think Aviva reached a fair and reasonable decision to decline the 
claim.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman