DRN-3654804
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that NM MORTGAGES LTD, a firm which had given them mortgage 
advice, didnt keep their personal data safe. As a result, theyve been the victims of identity 
theft.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T used NM for mortgage advice for both their residential and buy to let 
properties, in connection with which it took and retained their personal data. 
In 2020, NM discovered that former staff had been involved in possible criminal activity. It 
identified a small number of customers who might have been affected, including 
Mr and Mrs T. It was concerned that the personal data of those customers might have been 
stolen from its systems. It notified Mr and Mrs T that their personal data might have been 
taken without consent and offered them advice on how to protect themselves against fraud.
Separately, Mr and Mrs T discovered that they had been the victim of an identity theft. A 
fraudster had changed their contact details on some of their mortgage accounts. Loans had 
been taken out in their names without their knowledge, and other fraudulent activities had 
happened too. As a result, Mr and Mrs Ts credit files were affected and they were refused a 
car loan and had the limits on their credit cards reduced. They spent time and money 
checking their credit files, notifying financial firms and correcting the fraudulent changes that 
had been made, and taking steps to protect themselves from future fraud.
It seems likely that the problems Mr and Mrs T had resulted from the likely data breach NM 
had identified. Mr and Mrs T complained to NM.
NM said that it couldnt be sure that their personal data had been taken. But it offered 
Mr and Mrs T compensation of £250 for the upset they had been caused. And it offered 
£324.80 to cover the costs Mr and Mrs T had incurred in checking their credit files and 
registering themselves on a fraud prevention database. It said it did so without admission of 
liability.
Our investigator didnt think that offer went far enough. She noted that NM had only offered 
to pay for the costs of credit file and fraud database checks up to May 2021  but as 
Mr and Mrs T were being affected by this issue after that, she said it should also refund 
costs incurred since May 2021 subject to Mr and Mrs T providing evidence of the costs 
theyd incurred. And she said NM should increase its offer of compensation from £250 to 
£850. As NM didnt respond, the case comes to me for a final decision to be made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider this complaint. I say that because NM advised 
Mr and Mrs T on both residential and buy to let mortgages. And while advising on buy to let 
mortgages is not a regulated activity within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, advising on a residential mortgage is. And Im satisfied that holding Mr and Mrs Ts 
personal data and keeping it safe is part and parcel of the service of providing regulated 
mortgage advice.
NM has shared with us the broad outlines of the problem that occurred and its investigation, 
though not the detailed evidence that sits behind it. However, it seems that an employee or 
employees may have accessed and retained the personal data of customers of NM. Ive 
noted what NM has told us of its investigation. And Ive also noted that at least part of the 
fraud Mr and Mrs T were victims of required detailed knowledge of their mortgage accounts, 
arranged through NM. Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the identity theft 
Mr and Mrs T experienced is linked to the data breach NM identified.
However, as it seems that the data breach was caused by a former employee or employees 
of NM acting fraudulently, I need to consider whether its fair and reasonable to hold NM 
responsible for what happened  or whether its solely the responsibility of the former 
employee(s). 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I need to take into account  
amongst other things  relevant law. The leading case involving a firms liability for data 
breaches by employees is WM Morrison Supermarkets plc v Various Claimants [2020] 
UKSC 12, which Ive taken into account. 
In that case, a rogue employee stole the personal information of other employees of the 
company and published it online. The Supreme Court held that the relevant question in such 
cases was whether the employees unauthorised act was so closely connected with acts he 
was authorised to do that, for the purposes of the liability of his employer to third parties, his 
wrongful act may fairly and properly be regarded as done while acting in the ordinary course 
of his employment. In Morrisons, the court considered that there wasnt a sufficient 
connection between what the employee did and what he was authorised to do to make the 
company vicariously liable for his actions.
In my view, there are differences between that case and this one. And in applying the 
principles set out in Morrisons, I think NM should be held liable for the actions of its 
employee(s) in all the circumstances of this complaint. In this case, although NM has told us 
little about the detail of what happened, it seems from what it has said that persons 
employed to advise on and arrange mortgages used personal information gathered from 
customers in the course of arranging mortgages to fraudulently change details held by 
lenders on mortgages that had been arranged  which is one part of the problems 
Mr and Mrs T experienced. And those persons also seem to have retained customer 
information for their own, fraudulent, use. 
Passing information between borrower and lender is part and parcel of the activity of 
arranging a mortgage. And the employee(s) were authorised to pass customer data to 
lenders as part of their role. Customer data seems to have been manipulated at some point 
before information was passed to the lenders so that it was incorrect. I consider this 
manipulation of data to be so closely connected with the acts that these employee(s) were 
authorised to do that it can fairly and reasonably be regarded as done by them while acting 
in the ordinary course of their employment. That means, in my view, that it is fair and 
reasonable that NM, as their employer, should be held liable for these acts.
A further factor is that in this case Mr and Mrs T were customers of a regulated firm engaged 
in a regulated activity. And as a regulated firm carrying on regulated activities, NM owes 
Mr and Mrs T further duties beyond those owed by Morrisons to its employees in the case 
Ive cited above. For example, NM owes a broad duty as a regulated firm to pay due regard to the best 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And a customer of a regulated firm entrusting 
that regulated firm with financial and other sensitive data is entitled to expect the firm to keep 
it safe. 
In deciding the outcome here, our rules require me to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. In doing so, Im required to take into account relevant law  but Im not 
required to follow it if I consider doing so would not be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Ive taken into account what the Supreme Court said about the liabilities of a company for 
data breaches by employees. Having done so, on the facts of this case, I think its likely a 
court would conclude that there was a sufficiently close connection between the employees 
authorised actions and the data breach to say that NM is liable for the actions of its 
employee(s). 
And in any event, even if Im wrong about that, I still think its fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for me to uphold this complaint. I say that because the Supreme Court case 
was solely about whether an employer is vicariously liable to its employees for a breach of 
data protection law. Even if, as a matter of law, NM is not vicariously liable to Mr and Mrs T 
for a breach of data protection law, it has broader obligations as a regulated firm acting for 
customers of its regulated activities. These include paying due regard to their interests and 
treating them fairly. 
When a customer of a regulated firm entrusts the firm with sensitive financial and personal 
data as part of a regulated service the firm is providing, theyre entitled to expect that data 
will be kept safe and confidential and not accessed by fraudsters or manipulated for 
fraudulent purposes. That did not happen in this case. 
While theres no suggestion NM deliberately or negligently allowed Mr and Mrs Ts personal 
information to be stolen and used for identity theft and fraud, the fact is that it didnt keep 
their data safe  and that means that, even if not deliberately, the outcome was that it didnt 
treat them fairly. And in my view its therefore fair and reasonable that it compensates them 
for the consequences of not keeping their data safe. 
I also note that NM has already offered compensation to Mr and Mrs T. While it did so 
explicitly saying that it made the offer as a gesture of goodwill without admission of liability, 
the fact is that NM itself has already decided that it ought fairly to compensate Mr and Mrs T 
for what happened to them. Its offered to refund some of the costs they incurred, and to 
compensate them for the upset they experienced. Im satisfied its appropriate for me to 
consider whether that offer represents fair compensation in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs T have said about the impact of the fraud and identity theft on 
them. There has been considerable disruption and upset over several years. Theyve had to 
deal with a number of financial providers to correct information wrongly changed or resolve 
loans taken out in their names. Theyve described the consequences for them of the damage 
caused to their credit files  including being refused credit and having existing facilities 
withdrawn or reduced. Theyve had to repeatedly check their credit files and follow up 
suspicious activity. Im satisfied theyve been put to substantial inconvenience over a 
prolonged period of time  and also significant worry both about what has happened and 
what might have happened and might still happen. In all the circumstances, I agree with our 
investigator that £850 is a more appropriate award of compensation than £250. I also agree that its reasonable that Mr and Mrs T have continued to check their credit files 
after May 2021, and so NM should reimburse the costs theyve incurred, subject to 
Mr and Mrs T providing evidence of those costs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct NM 
MORTGAGES LTD to:
Pay Mr and Mrs T £850 compensation;
Reimburse the costs Mr and Mrs T have incurred in checking their credit files and in 
registering with fraud prevention databases, from August 2020 to August 2022, 
subject to Mr and Mrs T providing evidence of the costs incurred. NM MORTGAGES 
LTD should add simple annual interest of 8% running from the date Mr and Mrs T 
paid each invoice to be refunded to date of refund.
NM MORTGAGES LTD may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award, 
but should tell Mr and Mrs T what it has deducted so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
they are entitled to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman