DRN-3760270
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs processing of 
its international payments and the lack of communication from Barclays when issues arose 
with these payments.
The complaint has been brought to us by one of Cs directors, Mr M. He has appointed Mr P 
to be Cs representative.
What happened
C made an international payment in March 2022 which was cancelled by Barclays, but no 
notification was sent to C.
Mr P complained to Barclays on Cs behalf. Barclays responded explaining the payment was 
cancelled as C hadnt provided the relationship status of the beneficiary in the purpose of 
payment section when it input the details for the payment. Barclays explained that a pop-up 
message appears when the payee selects the purpose of the payment which explains how 
the payee should format the purpose of payment section.
Barclays also explained that their payments team dont contact customers when a payment 
is cancelled however, the payee, in this case C, can track the payments in the manage 
payments section of online banking once 24 hours had elapsed from when the payment was 
made. 
Barclays said they had noted the feedback from C in relation to the payment journey 
however they didnt uphold the complaint as they said there was no bank error.
Further to this, C made six international payments between 11 and 13 June 2022. Four of 
the international payments were successful but the remaining two were not completed. C 
said it had made similar transactions in the past with no issues, so it couldnt understand 
why the payments had been unsuccessful this time.
Barclays looked into the matter for C and confirmed that one of the transactions was 
confirmed as sent but not received but the other transaction had been cancelled. Barclays 
explained to C that this transaction had again been cancelled due to missing information.
As Barclays had not upheld any of Cs complaints, one of Cs directors brought its complaint 
to us. 
To put things right, C would like Barclays to:
Execute payments that have been properly administered.
Not allow payments to be saved that are not properly administered.
Notify them of any payments that have not been executed, including clear reasons as 
to why.
Urgently work to rectify any issues so that outstanding payments can be executed.
Ensure process consistency.
Ensure systems work and are reliable.
Ensure front line banking staff are not left exposed or ill equipped to handle queries.
Ensure customers time is not wasted chasing resolutions.
Provide a clear and effective channel for communication when things go wrong.
Provide a clear note admitting bank error that C can send to the two suppliers.
Pay compensation to C for the time wasted.
One of our investigators looked into matters. He thought Barclays couldve done more to put 
things right. He said that although the payments were handled in line with Barclays internal 
processes, C was unable to track these payments via the channels Barclays provided. He 
recommended that Barclays pay £200 to compensate C for the inconvenience of having to 
spend time chasing Barclays for a resolution.
Mr P spoke to our investigator after receiving our investigators view of the case. Mr P said 
that whilst he accepted some of the findings of the investigation, he wanted to pursue the 
case on behalf of C as he wanted Barclays to change their process. Our investigator 
explained to Mr P that it is beyond our power to ask Barclays to change their internal 
processes but that he would pass the case to an ombudsman for a final decision.
Mr P raised some additional points that he wanted an ombudsman to consider. He said:
I should not be able to save and submit a payment without inserting all required 
information, which currently I can.
If I have saved and submitted a payment that is then cancelled or remains 
unexecuted, Barclays should inform me.
Barclays systems & processes are lacking, which one should not expect to suffer.
Communication is very poor, even when a complaint has been escalated to the 
highest echelons of Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of issues that C would like addressed and Ill start by explaining that Ive 
taken all of the information provided by both parties into account. However, Ill keep my 
comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach the right outcome.
I can see the crux of the complaint here is that C would like Barclays to change some of its 
internal processes in relation to international payments. However, as our investigator 
explained, it is not part of our role at the Financial Ombudsman Service to tell Barclays what their processes should be. We are not the regulator but an informal dispute resolution 
service who help to restore the complainant to the position that they would be in had any 
error by the financial business not occurred.
Nonetheless, I will address this complaint in two parts, addressing both Cs concerns about 
Barclays processes, and the customer service C received from Barclays while it tried to 
establish what was going wrong with some of its international payments.
Barclays processes in relation to international payments
C is concerned that it can save and submit a payment and receive a payment instruction 
confirmation without inserting all of the required information. 
Barclays have explained that the payee will receive a payment instruction confirmation which 
confirms that the payment has been input into the system, but this is not confirmation that 
the payment has been processed as international payments are never processed 
immediately.
However, Mr P has argued that C shouldnt be able to complete the process if all the 
required information has not submitted. Barclays explained that a pop-up message appears 
when the payee selects the purpose of the payment which explains how the payee should 
format the purpose of payment section depending on the purpose. It seems that whoever 
input the payments for C closed the pop-up without taking the action requested and this was 
the reason some of the payments were unsuccessful.
My understanding is that this information is not necessarily required for every international 
payment, but it was required for some of Cs payments due to the stringent requirements of 
the country C was trying to make the payments to and the specific purpose of those 
payments. 
As explained, a pop-up appears for the payee explaining the action they need to take, so I 
cant hold Barclays responsible if a payee chooses to close this box without taking the 
required action. And whilst I understand how frustrating it is for Mr P and the directors of C, I 
can understand why Barclays are unable to make this part of the process mandatory in order 
to complete the application as it is not necessary for every payment.
C also thinks Barclays should inform a payee if a payment is cancelled or remains 
unexecuted after the payee has saved and submitted it. Whilst I can understand the 
inconvenience cancelled or unexecuted payments cause for a payee, I dont think it is 
reasonable to suggest Barclays call every customer with this issue but I would expect 
Barclays to have a system in place whereby a payee could monitor the progress of their 
payments.
Barclays explained to C that payees can monitor and track the progress of the payments 
through the manage payments section of online banking 24 hours after the payment was 
made. However, Mr P has provided me with evidence to show that this is not a reliable way 
to track Cs international payments as not all payments are appearing on the system and 
some that are have an incorrect status.
So, whilst I dont have the power to ask Barclays to change their processes, I think it is 
reasonable to expect Barclays to have a platform through which a payee can track their 
payments. And it doesnt seem that the manage payments section of Barclays online 
banking platform reliably provides this. 
Customer serviceCs representatives have spent time trying to establish which payments were successful and 
what had prevented others from completing even though C had previously made similar 
payments to the same beneficiaries. 
Having reviewed the information on file, Ive not seen that Barclays were to blame for the 
unsuccessful international payments, however I do think Barclays could have been more 
helpful in assisting representatives of C with their queries. 
I say this because Barclays told C to track its international payments through its online 
banking but when C provided evidence that the payments werent being accurately reported, 
Barclays didnt address the issue or offer an alternative resolution.
I can see that Mr P made numerous calls to Barclays on behalf of C that left the matter 
unresolved or involved him being passed from department to department. He also sent a 
significant number of emails, including some addressed to the senior leadership team of 
Barclays, many of which went unanswered and none of which provided a reasonable 
solution to the issue. So, I think it is fair to ask Barclays to pay some compensation to C to 
reflect the inconvenience this matter has caused it. 
Putting things right
Whilst I dont have the power to ask Barclays to change their internal processes in relation to 
how international payments are input or how a payee is notified of an error or cancellation, I 
think it would be reasonable for Barclays to discuss how best C can monitor its international 
payments with Cs representatives as an alternative to monitoring through online banking if 
the information on there is unreliable. I appreciate that C can call Barclays to check the 
progress of an international payment, but Ive seen evidence that when a representative of C 
did call in, no resolution was reached, or conflicting information was given.
Given everything Ive seen, I agree with our investigators recommendation that Barclays 
should pay £200 to C for the inconvenience of C having to spend time chasing Barclays for a 
resolution to the matter.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £200 to C in 
recognition of the inconvenience this matter has caused to it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman