DRN-3310189
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt raise a chargeback for her following 
a cancelled trip.
What happened
In 2019, Mrs W paid for her son to attend a football trip with his local academy to Holland. 
The trip was scheduled for April 2020, and was arranged through a local travel supplier, who 
Ill refer to as T. Mrs W paid in three instalments  the first two were by bank transfer, and 
the final payment of £592 was made in January 2020 using her Lloyds debit card. 
In March 2020 T informed the academy that the trip was being cancelled due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. T issued a Refund Credit Note (RCN) to be used for a future booking 
with T before 31 March 2021. Their letter said that if the RCN wasnt used before its expiry 
date, then a cash refund could be asked for. 
The trip couldnt be re-booked before the RCN expired, so Mrs W tried to obtain a cash 
refund for the amount she had paid. However, T went into liquidation in April 2021 and no 
refund was given. Mrs W approached ABTA for help and was told to request a chargeback 
through Lloyds.
Mrs W spoke to Lloyds in May 2021 and asked for a chargeback to be raised for the amount 
she paid on her debit card. Lloyds said they were unable to raise a chargeback for Mrs W as 
the applicable chargeback scheme rules hadnt been met. They said Mrs W had raised her 
chargeback out of time and there wasnt anything Lloyds could do to help. 
Mrs W tried to speak to Lloyds about this on a few more occasions, but her correspondence 
wasnt acknowledged. She raised a complaint with them. Lloyds said their original decision 
not to raise a chargeback was correct, but they paid Mrs W £40 for not responding to some 
of her correspondence. 
Mrs W wasnt happy with Lloyds response and brought her complaint to our service. She 
said many of her sons friends parents had received their money back for the cancelled trip 
and she felt Lloyds hadnt treated her fairly. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said the chargeback scheme rules outline the time available for people to make a 
chargeback, which Lloyds must abide by. She said, in Mrs Ws case, the chargeback hadnt 
been raised in time and Lloyds were acting reasonably in not pursuing it. She also said the 
rules didnt extend the time allowed if an RCN has been issued  they arent covered by the 
chargeback scheme. 
Mrs W remained unhappy. She still felt shed been treated unfairly and had followed the 
guidance given by ABTA.
As Mrs W didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mrs W has been left out of pocket through no fault of her own, what Im deciding on 
here is a complaint about Lloyds and I need to consider if they did something wrong. And, for 
the same reasons given by our investigator, I dont think they did by not raising a 
chargeback. 
When a person makes a payment for goods or service using a debit card, their bank may be 
able to help them in limited circumstances if they havent received what they paid for. The 
bank can raise a dispute, known as a chargeback, with the bank which accepted the card 
payment.
A chargeback isnt something a customer can demand that their bank attempt, but when 
faced with a person requesting assistance with a disputed debit card transaction I would 
expect the bank to consider attempting a chargeback, and to do so if there was a reasonable 
chance of it succeeding. 
As Ive suggested above, chargebacks are not always successful. There are rules which 
must be followed for chargebacks, and these are set by the card networks. In Mrs Ws case, 
that is VISA. Chargebacks can be defended by the recipient bank if they think the rules 
havent been followed. One aspect of the rules concerns the window of time, following a card 
transaction, in which a chargeback must be attempted. 
The rules which applied at the time of Mrs Ws transaction said that a chargeback needed to 
be attempted within 120 days of the date the service in question was meant to have been 
provided by, so long as this was no more than 540 days from the date of the debit card 
transaction. VISA issued guidance during the pandemic to say that these limits would not be 
extended.
In Mrs Ws case, her sons trip was scheduled for mid-April 2020. So, a chargeback would 
need to have been raised by some time in August 2020. Unfortunately, by the time she got in 
touch with Lloyds to tell them about the problem, it was too late. 
I understand why Mrs W didnt raise her concerns with Lloyds before she did. The travelling 
party had received the RCN from T and it seems they were hoping to rearrange the trip for 
early in 2021  but when it became evident that wasnt going to be possible Mrs W tried to 
arrange for her cash refund. And, having looked at the email she received from ABTA I can 
also understand why Mrs W feels Lloyds havent acted as ABTA suggested they should. 
ABTAs letter to Mrs W referred her to VISAs updated guidance issued in May 2020, to help 
consumers during the COVID-19 pandemic. And this guidance suggested Mrs W would be 
able to raise a chargeback claim once T had gone into liquidation and was unable to honour 
the RCN. 
However, VISA issued updated guidance in April 2021 which confirmed the time limits for 
raising a chargeback wouldnt be extended if a voucher had previously been issued for a 
service that had been cancelled, and the merchant had now gone out of business and the 
voucher was of no use. The guidance said:
Voucher for Future useQuestion: If the cardholder accepts a voucher from the merchant for a service that has been 
cancelled; the merchant has now gone out of business so the voucher is of no use. Does the 
voucher extend timeframes?
Answer: No. The 120 calendar days can be calculated from the original expected receipt 
date. Neither the voucher nor the out of business date extend timeframes. If it is past original 
expected receipt date, then the issuer has no dispute rights.
The 120 days began from the original expected receipt date  in Mrs Ws case that was April 
2020. And as Mrs W didnt raise her dispute with Lloyds until May 2021, it is this most recent 
guidance that they must follow. 
I know that Mrs W is frustrated with this situation and I sympathise with her. She is left out of 
pocket through no fault of her own. But my decision is only focussing on Lloyds, and whether 
they acted unfairly towards Mrs W. I know she feels they have as others in the travelling 
party have received refunds in the same circumstances  but I cant comment on those. I 
can only make my decision on the evidence Ive seen and how Lloyds have dealt with 
Mrs Ws request for a chargeback. And I think theyve acted fairly when I consider the 
chargeback scheme rules in place. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs W, but Im not asking Lloyds to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman