DRN-1891169
The complaint
Mrs M says AXA France IARD has not properly compensated her for the mis-sale of a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA has accepted responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint.
So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Mrs M opened a store card account in 2002, at the same time she was sold a PPI policy.
In 2019 Mrs M complained to AXA about the sale of the PPI. AXA agreed to uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint and pay her compensation in line with this services guidance.
AXA offered Mrs M £5.66 in total. Mrs M didnt think this properly compensated her.
An adjudicator from this service thought AXA had fairly compensated Mrs M. Mrs M 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
AXA has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So, I wont look 
into how the PPI policy came to be sold to Mrs M. Ive looked at the compensation AXA has 
paid Mrs M to see if it calculated the redress fairly.
Having done so I think AXA has fairly compensated Mrs M, and Ill explain why.
Where a PPI policy has been mis-sold Id expect the business to, as far as is practical, put 
the consumer in the position theyd be in if the policy hadnt been sold.
When a business compensates a consumer for mis-sold PPI on a store card, wed normally 
expect it to reconstruct the consumers account as if they hadnt taken out PPI. Wed then 
expect the business to refund to the consumer all the extra they paid because of the PPI.     
Id also expect a business to add interest calculated at 8% simple for the time theyd not had 
use of the money.
To do this a business needs to know the actual amounts the consumer spent on the store 
card as the PPI premiums are linked to the outstanding monthly balance.In this case AXA has detailed records of Mrs Ms account after August 2005. But between 
September 2002 and July 2005 it doesnt hold detailed records of the account. I dont find 
this unusual as businesses are not required to keep detailed records indefinitely.
AXA does however know that in total Mrs M was only charged £2.77 for PPI over the whole 
term of the policy. From this AXA was able to work out how much Mrs M was charged for 
PPI before August 2005. It just does not know in which months the PPI was charged. So, it 
has assumed that the £2.77 premiums were spread over a period of time. I think this is a 
reasonable assumption for AXA to make.
AXA has used this information to carry out a reconstruction of Mrs Ms account as if she 
hadnt been sold the PPI. And its worked out that Mrs M would have been charged £0.21 
interest because of the PPI premiums.
So, AXA refunded all the PPI premiums Mrs M was charged for the PPI (£2.77) and the 
extra interest shed been charged because of the PPI (£0.21).
AXA also paid Mrs M compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple for the time shed been 
out of pocket. This came to £2.68 net of income tax.
So, in total AXA offered Mrs M £5.66. From what Ive seen I think this is fair and has been 
calculated this in the way Id expect it to.
I realise this is a relatively small amount of compensation and that Mrs M may have received 
higher compensation from other PPI complaints she has had upheld. But from the records I 
can see that over all the years Mrs M held the account her total purchases were only 
£1,001.85 and for this reason she was only ever charged a total of £2.77 for PPI premiums. 
Mrs M has said that AXA should repay her any additional interest she was charged because 
of the PPI and any late payment fees. But I can see AXA has refunded any additional 
interest caused by the PPI, and Ive not seen any evidence that Mrs M was charged for any 
late payment fees.
My final decision
My final decision is that AXA France IARD has fairly compensated Mrs M for the mis-sale of 
the PPI in 2002. So, I make no further award against it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman