DRN-2887375
The complaint
Mr R complains that, after his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits were 
transferred to a personal pension plan (PPP) in 2017, Riverpark Investment & Financial 
Consultants Limited (Riverpark) failed to invest the funds as agreed. Mr R says he only 
discovered the funds hadnt been invested in September 2019 and wants any investment 
loss hes suffered in that time to be added to his pension fund.  
What happened
Mr R held deferred benefits in the BAE systems pension scheme. He contacted his 
longstanding financial adviser to discuss his retirement planning in 2016 and the adviser said 
he would bring another adviser from Riverpark  who was a pension adviser- to meet Mr R. 
It was agreed that Mr R would transfer his OPS benefits into a PPP but, because the 
Riverpark adviser wasnt authorised to carry out such transfers, another pension transfer 
specialist (PTS) from a different firm transferred the OPS benefits into the PPP following a 
meeting in January 2017. Tax free cash of £73,160.82 was paid to Mr R in March 2017 and 
the residual fund was held in cash within the new pension plan.
Mr R said hed spoken with the adviser from Riverpark about how to invest the pension after 
the transfer. He says they agreed his attitude to risk (ATR) and the sort of returns he could 
expect.  He says he paid the PTS around £6,000 for the transfer, of which half was given to 
Riverpark. So Mr R says he expected his pension to be invested for him after the transfer. 
But in September 2019 he discovered it was still held in a cash fund and hadnt been 
invested in line with his ATR. 
So Mr R complained. He contacted the PTS to ask if he was aware that the pension 
remained uninvested. The specialist said hed been unaware, and when he then established 
that hed been receiving ongoing fees from the provider, he repaid them to 
Mr Rs pension. He said he would notify Riverpark about the situation and so Riverpark 
contacted Mr R to discuss the position. Mr R says Riverpark initially said it would resolve the 
problem  with its adviser suggesting he would pay back any loss himself. He also offered to 
visit Mr R to complete the investment of the pension funds.
Mr R said he didnt want to meet with Riverpark until his investment loss had been resolved 
and continued to discuss the matter. But in November 2019 Riverpark issued its final 
response to Mr Rs complaint. It said the advice to transfer had been given by another firm 
(the PTS) who had received any ongoing fees following the transfer  so it thought the 
complaint should be directed to the other firm. It confirmed that it didnt have any authority to 
invest Mr Rs pension fund.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and following our involvement Riverpark said that, as a 
gesture of goodwill, it would refund the fee it received from the PTS following the transfer. 
Mr R didnt accept the offer so one of our investigators looked into the matter and said the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
He said it had been agreed that Riverpark would be notified once the transfer had completed 
so that it could provide investment advice on the pension. And he felt Riverpark did receive 
that notification as it was part of a communication that included a cheque which was cashed. 
So he looked at what should have happened in 2017 and concluded that Riverpark would 
have met with Mr R to discuss the investment and would have signed an agreement with him 
to invest along those lines. But as no agreement was signed, he thought Riverpark didnt 
have any authority to act as Mr Rs adviser and couldnt have provided investment advice. 
The investigator said Riverpark couldnt have simply invested Mr Rs money in March 2017 
without arranging an advice meeting first. He also said that in the following two and a half 
years Mr R didnt follow up the matter with Riverpark  which he would have expected Mr R 
to have done considering he hadnt signed any written agreement, hadnt discussed an 
investment strategy with Riverpark, or received any confirmation of any investment.
As he believed there was no formal arrangement in place to invest Mr Rs PPP after the 
transfer he didnt think Riverpark was responsible for any financial loss that occurred as a 
result of the funds remaining in cash. 
   
Riverpark accepted the assessment but said that:
The pension was never held under its agency and therefore it wasnt obliged to offer 
any service.
The PTS firm held the pension under its agency and received ongoing commission 
during 2017 to 2019, so it was responsible for ongoing servicing rights.
Mr R wouldnt sign a letter of authority in 2019, so it couldnt investigate the matter or 
try to invest the pension funds at that point. 
But Mr R didnt agree. He made the following points in response:
He only became aware that his pension wasnt invested in September 2019. He had 
discussed possible investments, returns and risk in the meeting with the advisers. As 
hed then completed a risk questionnaire with the PTS, he assumed this information 
would be shared with Riverpark so that his pension could be invested along the lines 
theyd agreed.
Hed provided a copy of the letter that was sent by the PTS to Riverpark enclosing its 
fee for the transfer. He thought this proved Riverpark would have been aware at that 
point that it could invest the pension funds.
He trusted all the adviser experts he dealt with to carry out the transfer and 
investment without further input from him. 
He had lost money as his pension was now worth less than when it was transferred.
The investigator had acknowledged that Riverpark had made an error. So he 
believed it should be accountable for that error as it was proven Riverpark received 
notification that the pension had been transferred and the funds were available on 
the pension providers platform (for investing).
He hadnt been told any further meetings would be required and assumed the 
meetings he had with Riverpark and the PTS, for which he paid a fee of nearly 
£6,000, were the only meetings he needed to have for the transfer and ancillary 
recommendations to be actioned. He thought this showed that Riverpark hadnt 
explained its process to him or else he would have contacted it after the transfer to 
arrange a meeting when it was clear Riverpark had forgotten to contact him.
The investigator said that there was no evidence that Mr R had discussed investments with 
Riverpark and no written evidence of an agreement or contract that it was to provide an 
investment strategy following the transfer. He didnt think it was reasonable for Mr R to 
assume the investment would take place, especially as he had no paperwork to confirm that  so he said he would have expected Mr R to have contacted Riverpark to find out the next 
steps once the transfer had completed. 
He also explained that the £6,000 fee was for the transfer of the pension and not for any 
further investment advice. So he thought Riverpark was entitled to the fee even though it had 
subsequently offered to repay it to Mr R. 
He thought that while Riverpark had failed to go back to Mr R to establish an investment 
strategy there was nothing to suggest Mr R would have agreed to go ahead with any 
recommendation. So he didnt think Riverpark had failed to invest on Mr Rs behalf and 
therefore he couldnt safely say it was responsible for the lack of investment and any loss 
that may have occurred as a result.
Mr R didnt accept the outcome and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So it was referred to me for a review. But Mr R also made the following 
additional points:
Riverpark had a duty of care to invest his pension, and by not doing so it had been 
negligent and caused him to suffer a financial loss.
Riverpark admitted its adviser was at fault and that he was going to try and pay back 
the loss suffered himself. 
He hadnt refused to sign a letter of authority in 2019. He had previously signed one 
in 2016. He wasnt comfortable with the adviser coming to talk to him about investing 
his pension as hed lost confidence in him and Riverpark. He wanted the investment 
loss addressed first.
He disputed Riverparks statement that it hadnt received notification that the pension 
was ready to invest  or that it had received payment.
He considered the authorisation he signed in 2016 as being a contract to invest the 
pension after it had been transferred. He hadnt been made aware of the need to give 
further authorisation in the future. 
He assumed that Riverpark  who engaged the services of another adviser to 
transfer the pension  would then carry out the investment for him. He didnt agree 
that it was clear that more steps were required.
He didnt agree with the investigators view that he should have contacted Riverpark 
as he hadnt heard from it about investing the pension. He said he assumed 
Riverpark would have carried out the investment  which had already been 
discussed between them - and would only contact him if there was a problem.
He thought the investigator accepted Riverparks explanation of its process at face 
value and ignored the fact that it admitted it forgot to invest the pension, agreed to 
pay for the shortfall, and offered £2,926 compensation for something it said, wasnt 
its fault.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. I made the 
following points in support of my findings:
Id seen evidence of an introducer agreement between the PTS and Riverpark from 
2016 and a letter the PTS sent to Riverpark in March 2017, which demonstrated that 
Riverpark was engaged to give ongoing advice to Mr R after the pension transfer 
completed. So I thought it was clear a process did exist  which had been discussed previously, and so in my view Riverpark was responsible for investing Mr Rs pension 
funds. 
I thought that it was reasonable for Riverparks adviser to simply have forgotten to 
invest the funds, but didnt agree that meant it was the PTSs responsibility to 
continue to advise Mr R. Riverpark ought to have known what its responsibility was 
and, having left Mr Rs funds uninvested, should have agreed to invest them and 
make up any retrospective loss that might have been incurred while they remained in 
cash.
I did consider the PTSs involvement with the transfer and whether it should have 
considered the suitability of any underlying investments to be made. But I thought it 
assessed the suitability of the investments Riverpark was most likely to have 
recommended.
I thought, on balance, that it was reasonable for Mr R to think his funds would be 
invested without further meetings. But even if I was wrong about that I thought the 
letter from March 2017 ought to have ensured Riverpark followed its usual process 
and revisited Mr R to discuss the subsequent investment of his funds. 
Riverpark had engaged the services of the PTS, so if it heard nothing further about 
Mr R I think it would have been reasonable for it to have chased up the PTS.
If Riverpark had contacted Mr R to discuss an investment strategy, then I think he 
would have accepted its recommendation to invest in line with his ATR.  Riverpark 
didnt ensure its investment strategy was implemented following the transfer and 
there was no basis for it to think that the PTS had arranged the proposed 
investments.
Riverpark gave a number of reasons why Mr R ought not to have assumed the 
investment was taking place without his involvement or why he ought to have 
contacted Riverpark to confirm an investment strategy. So I needed to consider 
whether Mr R should have done more to ensure the progression of the investment. 
I thought that because Mr R had engaged with three different advisers before the 
transfer, it was understandable that he assumed the transfer and subsequent 
investment would all be taken care of without the need for further meetings. I did 
question why Mr R didnt react to a statement from the product provider in 
December 2017 which showed the money was still invested in cash  but he said he 
didnt receive the statement and would have questioned the cash investment if he 
had received it. 
So I decided that Riverpark, as the professional adviser, should have ensured the 
investment strategy was implemented. I accepted there were reasons to say that 
Mr R could have been more aware  but I thought Riverpark should put right its error 
in forgetting to invest Mr Rs pension funds.    
I thought, allowing for the process involved here, Riverpark could have invested 
Mr Rs funds by May 2017  so it should compare the value of Mr Rs SIPP now with 
the notional value had the investment taken place on that date  but capped at the 
point Mr R declined Riverparks offer to invest his funds and mitigate the position. 
Riverpark didnt need to return its share of the fees received from the pension 
transfer. But it should pay Mr R £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
his retirement planning. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R accepted the provisional decision and said he had nothing further to add. Riverpark, 
although strongly disagreeing with the decision, also had no further comments to make. But it wanted help to find the details of the benchmark index I had said should be used in the 
redress calculation, and wanted to be provided with the value of Mr Rs fund on 1 May 2017 
as it wasnt able to request the values itself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, as one party accepted my provisional findings and the other made no 
further submissions or comments, I see no reason to depart from them. 
I think there had been a discussion between the two advisory firms involved in the process of 
transferring and investing Mr Rs OPS. That general process was set out in an introducer 
agreement between the firms in 2016. In Mr Rs case that had led to agreement that 
Riverpark would go onto invest his pension funds. The letter that the PTS sent Riverpark in 
March 2017 included payment to Riverpark for its introduction of the transfer of Mr Rs OPS  
as well as confirmation for it to, ensure that the pension contract is transferred to your 
agency to enable you to review the fund selection and to ensure you receive your ongoing 
fees. 
I accept that Riverparks adviser simply forgot to go back and discuss the investment 
strategy but I think it was Riverparks responsibility to do that and therefore, in the 
circumstances, it should now compensate him for the notional investment of his pension 
funds in line with his ATR  as it would have done sometime after receiving the letter from 
the PTS if it had followed its usual agreed process.
In my provisional decision I did consider whether the PTS should have done more to confirm 
the likely investment strategy, and I thought it did confirm the suitability of the transfer based 
on the type of investments and risk that were most likely to be used as a strategy. My view is 
that if Riverpark had taken the instruction from the PTSs letter then it would have revisited 
Mr R and continued with the process of investing his funds. Riverparks own adviser had 
confirmed this process as the passing over of the file to me for ongoing service was the 
standing agreement in all cases and this involved revisiting the client to obtain an authority 
for ongoing advice after (the pension transfer specialist) had completed the transfer of the 
final salary pension. This is what I have done in all other cases and the arrangement has 
worked well except in this case where I did not revisit Mr R to obtain an ongoing advice 
authority. 
My only other consideration was whether Mr R ought to have done more to progress things 
particularly in light of pension statements which the provider issued in 2017 and noted that 
the money was held in a cash account  although Mr R said he didnt receive the 
statements. But, on balance, I think in the main it was Riverparks responsibility to carry out 
the transfer as a professional adviser, and I dont think the onus was on Mr R to be aware 
that his money hadnt been invested. 
If Riverpark had carried out its usual process here I think it would have contacted Mr R within 
two weeks of receiving the March 2017 letter from the PTS. I think it would then have put 
forward a recommendation in line with Mr Rs ATR  which I think Mr R would have accepted 
and submitted the request to the provider within a further month. 
So I think Mr Rs funds would have been invested by the beginning of May 2017 and 
Riverpark should compensate Mr R for any investment loss suffered as a result of remaining 
in the cash account from that date  
Putting things rightFair compensation
My aim is that Mr R should be put as close as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if his funds had been invested according to his ATR.
I take the view that Mr R would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently, as Riverpark didnt put a recommendation to him. But 
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr R's circumstances 
and objectives when he invested  and in respect of his agreed medium ATR. 
What should Riverpark do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, Riverpark must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Riverpark should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Riverpark should pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Riverpark is unable to pay the total amount into Mr R's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr R would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr R £200 for the disruption caused to his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Riverpark deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Riverpark should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Personal 
Pensionstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 1 May 2017The date that 
Mr R declined 8% simple per 
year from date Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexto complete an 
LOA in 2019. 
(but any loss at 
this point 
should be 
brought up to 
date using a 
percentage of 
loss applied to 
the current 
value of the 
funds)of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Riverpark totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr R's circumstances and risk attitude.
Riverpark has expressed concerns about how it can access the required information about 
the benchmark Ive put forward and the value of Mr Rs pension fund on the date Ive given. 
Riverpark should provide Mr R with a letter of authority, which he should then complete and 
return. Riverpark can then request the information it needs about Mr Rs pension values from 
his provider. And the investigator can provide Riverpark with the information and guidance around the 
benchmark if it liaises with him following the receipt of this decision. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Riverpark Investment & Financial Consultants 
Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Riverpark Investment & Financial Consultants Limited should provide details of its 
calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman