DRN-1659259
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Santander UK Plc won't refund any part of the Early 
Redemption Charge (ERC) they paid on a product they only had for around one month.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held a mortgage with Santander for some years, made up of three parts. Mr 
and Mrs B's complaint is only in relation to the ERC on their main mortgage balance. So, my 
decision will focus solely on the terms of this loan.
In April 2017 Mr and Mrs B fixed this loan at a rate of 1.69% until 2 July 2019. Their other 
two loans continued on tracker rates.
Towards the end of 2018 Mr and Mrs B put their house on the market. They were relocating 
to a different county due to Mrs B's work commitments. 
Mr and Mrs B's house sold in March 2019 and the intention was to complete before their 
fixed rate came to an end in July. They thought this was going to be a quick process due to 
both their sale and purchase being chain-free.
Some delays occurred which meant the sale didn't go through in time. Mrs B had to move 
into rented accommodation to start her new job and their loan was soon reverting to 
Santander's Standard Variable Rate (SVR). Mr and Mrs B could not afford to pay the higher 
mortgage payments alongside rent. They decided to put their house back on the market and 
transfer the balance of their loan on to a new fixed rated mortgage product to keep their 
costs down. They applied for a product switch online and the rate converted in mid-July 
2019. The purchase then went ahead, and they completed in mid-August 2019. 
In early August Mr and Mrs B wrote to Santander to explain their position. They asked 
whether under the circumstances, the ERC could be waived. Santander refused, but it did 
acknowledge that it should have responded to their letter sooner so offered £30 for their 
error. Mr and Mrs b asked for this to be paid to charity. Santander confirmed this happened. 
Mr and Mrs B weren't satisfied with Santander's response, so they brought their complaint to 
our service. An investigator looked into things and thought Santander had acted fairly in 
accordance with its terms and conditions  so didn't uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B 
didn't agree. Because an agreement has not been reached, the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B applied for their product switch online without the involvement of Santander 
staff. Whilst no advice was given, I have considered whether Santander provided Mr and 
Mrs B with enough information for them to make their own decision on the matter. I think the information provided during Santander's online application process was clear. I 
say this because the first page of its transfer service screen lists criteria that set's out when 
applying online is a suitable option. One of those criteria being '...you're not in the process 
of moving home or considering moving home within the next six months'. A telephone 
number to call is provided, if applying online isn't an option. In order to proceed with the 
online application, customers must click 'accept and continue' to confirm they're happy to 
proceed based on the information provided. 
Between Mr and Mrs B applying for the product switch online and the rate conversion taking 
place, Santander sent a mortgage product transfer offer. This letter clearly sets out that this 
loan was subject to an ERC of 3% of the amount repaid before 2 October 2021. The 
maximum amount payable was set out at £4,432.02. 
Mr and Mrs B chose to switch their product online without speaking to Santander for advice. 
If they had done, there may have been other, more suitable options available to them to 
keep costs down. Because I think clear information was given, and no advice was provided, I 
can't hold Santander responsible for the decision made by Mr and Mrs B.
Whilst I fully empathise with Mr and Mrs B's position, I must consider whats fair and 
reasonable for both parties. The ERC associated with a fixed rate product reflects the costs 
a lender incurs for ending the rate before the agreed time in situations where the borrower  
redeems the mortgage within the benefit period. 
Because I don't think Santander has done anything wrong, I won't be asking it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman