DRN-3267592
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has dealt with a claim made 
under a buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R owns a flat in a block which he rented to a tenant.
In December 2018 a nearby wall collapsed into the block. It caused damage to Mr Rs flat, 
making it uninhabitable, so Mr Rs tenant had to move out. A claim was made to Covea for 
the cost of putting right the damage to Mr Rs flat and Mr Rs loss of rent.
Covea agreed to repair the damage to the flat and pay Mr Rs loss of rent. It also paid for his 
tenant to be in alternative accommodation for a period of time. A dispute arose about this 
last point, but that has been settled in a separate complaint.
During 2019, the wall was reinstated and Covea arranged for repairs to be carried out within 
Mr Rs flat. The tenant returned in December 2019.
Later that month, Mr R told Covea there was a water leak in the flat. It was coming from the 
same area in which Covea had carried out work, so Mr R thought Covea was responsible for 
it. He didnt think it should be treated as a separate claim with a second excess.
Covea disagreed. It said it had replaced the stopcock in January 2019. As it had been 
around 11 months until the stopcock leaked again, Covea considered the two leaks were 
separate events  and that meant they should be treated as two separate claims.
Mr R was also concerned that his flat may have suffered structural damage as a result of the 
nearby collapse, including cracking and sloping floors.
Our investigator thought the second leak should be considered part of the first claim. And, as 
part of dealing with the damage, Covea should consider the structural problems Mr R has 
mentioned. Covea didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Water damage
After the wall collapsed, the stopcock supplying water to the flat was found to be leaking. As 
part of the repairs Covea carried out, it stopped the leak. Covea says it did this by replacing 
the stopcock in January 2019.
In December 2019, the stopcock was found to be leaking again. Mr Rs plumber replaced it. 
The second leak caused damage within the flat which I understand hasnt been repaired yet.
Mr R thinks Covea is responsible for the second leak. Hes questioned whether the work 
Covea carried out in January 2019 was to a suitable standard.
Covea hasnt been entirely clear about its position, but it seems to have accepted the claim 
for the damage caused by the second water leak. But Covea doesnt agree it was 
responsible for the leak. So its registered a separate claim and charged a separate excess.
In summary, the main dispute is about what caused the second leak  and whether it would 
be fair to hold Covea responsible for it.
Covea appointed a company, H, to consider whether the second leak was likely to be related 
to the first. I understand H was unable to visit the flat and inspect the area of pipework, so its 
review was based on the information provided by Covea, such as photos. As a result, its 
report was inconclusive about the link between the two leaks. It suggested further steps 
Covea could take to find out more about the likely cause, but it doesnt appear these steps 
have been taken.
H established that the stopcock had likely been replaced by Covea following the first leak. It 
found the cause of the second leak to be a separated joint in this pipework. It said this may 
have been because the pipe wasnt sufficiently tightened when replaced by Covea or the 
pipe was incompatible with the stopcock. No other possible causes were noted.
H went on to say that the first leak was likely to have pre-dated the wall collapse, in part 
because of mould growth noted in a photo thought to have been taken in January 2019. I 
know this is something Mr R disagrees with. His plumber installed a new bathroom in the flat 
shortly before the wall collapse in late 2018 and has confirmed there were no leaks at that 
time. And the stopcock is in the same area where the wall debris impacted the block of flats. 
Mr R points out the flat had been locked up for around seven weeks at the time of the photo, 
in winter with no heating or ventilation as the flat could not be accessed due to the wall 
collapse. Photos have shown the earth previously retained by the wall had spilt out and was 
resting directly against the flat wall, possibly contributing to the moisture problem.
Taking all of this into account, Im persuaded the weight of evidence shows its likely the first 
leak was caused by the wall collapse. But even if it wasnt, Covea chose to replace the 
stopcock. When it carried out this work, it had a duty to do so in a way that was lasting and 
effective. Whilst its unclear exactly what caused the second leak, the only suggestions put 
forward relate to the way the replacement was carried out by Covea, which indicates the 
work was ineffective. And whilst the first stopcock replacement seems to have held for 
around 11 months, Im not satisfied that amounts to a lasting repair.
Because of this, Im satisfied Covea is responsible for the second leak as a result of the way 
it dealt with the first leak. So it would be unfair for Covea to treat it as a separate claim.
To put things right, Covea should pay the cost of any damage caused by the second leak 
without treating it as a new claim. That means it shouldnt charge a second excess. And nor 
should it record a second claim on any internal or external databases. If it has recorded a 
second claim, and thats had an impact on any renewal premiums, those premiums should 
be recalculated without consideration of the second claim and any difference refunded. In 
response to this provisional decision, Covea should confirm whether there has been any 
impact on the premiums or not.Covea should also pay any other costs incurred as a direct result of the second leak, such 
as the plumbers invoice for stopping it. Mr R should provide a copy of that in response to 
this provisional decision. If he has any other costs that he thinks are associated with it, he 
should also provide those invoices and explain how they relate to the leak.
Structural problems
Mr R is concerned that his flat has suffered structural damage resulting from the original wall 
collapse. I understand hes asked Covea to arrange for this to be investigated. Its not clear 
what Coveas position on this is but I havent seen that an investigation has been carried out.
In a previous complaint, it was found that a landslip caused the wall collapse  and that 
damaged the block of flats. There are photos showing significant amounts of debris directly 
against the building to a considerable depth. One of the photos in Hs report shows the force 
of the collapse sent material through a window of the flat, bringing down the frame and 
dislodging the nearby blockwork. Mr R considers other photos show how the collapse 
pushed parts of the flat inwards  and that force may have transferred through the flat, 
causing problems to the other side.
Based on the way the damage happened and the impact it had on the building, I can 
understand why Mr R is concerned. Its possible there is a structural problem as a result of 
the landslip and wall collapse. However, I havent seen any opinion from a suitably qualified 
surveyor or engineer about it. Although its possible this is what happened, I dont think it 
would be fair to conclude this is likely to be what happened based on the limited information 
currently available.
I think the fair resolution to the current dispute is for Covea to pay for a suitably qualified 
independent surveyor or engineer to inspect the building and give their opinion about 
whether the landslip and wall collapse have caused any structural problems within the flat  
and what those problems are. That report should be made available to Covea and Mr R and 
can be taken into account when considering what the appropriate repairs to the flat are. If 
Covea already has information along these lines, it should provide a copy of the report in 
response to this provisional decision.
Time taken
The second leak happened around two years ago and repairs are yet to start. It doesnt 
appear repairs have even been scheduled. Its not clear what has taken so long. The issues 
involved arent unusual or particularly complex, so I cant understand why the problem hasnt 
been dealt with much sooner.
Im satisfied Covea has caused avoidable and unnecessary delays. Whilst Mr R hasnt been 
living in the flat and suffering the direct impact of it remaining damaged, hes spent 
considerable time and effort communicating with Covea in an attempt to move things 
forward. Had Covea dealt with things fairly from the outset, Im persuaded this would have 
lessened the impact on Mr R of dealing with this matter for a prolonged period of time.
Im satisfied it would be reasonable for Covea to pay Mr R £500 compensation for the 
avoidable distress and inconvenience its caused.
Next steps
Its important the delays dont continue and the next steps are taken promptly.Assuming my final decision is along similar lines and is accepted by Mr R, Covea should 
arrange for the structural problems to be considered. It should also arrange for the repairs to 
the flat to be scheduled. This schedule should set out the work required to carry out a lasting 
and effective repair of any damage caused by the original landslip and wall collapse, bearing 
in mind the findings of the structural report, and any damage caused by the second leak.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R accepted it and made some comments. In summary:
In December 2019, Mr Rs plumber didnt replace the stopcock  he replaced a 
compression joint. Since then hes replaced the associated connections. He thinks 
this is what Covea should have done originally  and that would have prevented the 
second leak
Covea had appointed a loss adjuster, S, to deal with the claim for the second leak. 
Mr R says he agreed with S to have a damp survey carried out. He did this and the 
report suggesting lifting carpets and floorboards to understand the full extent of the 
water damage from the leak. Mr R asked S whether this further investigation would 
be paid for. He says he hasnt received a response.
Because of this, and Coveas insistence the second leak be treated as a second 
claim, things reached a standstill. Mr R is eager for the claim to progress. He would 
like Covea to pay for the further damp investigation and the structural survey.
Mr R has suggested a local structural engineer familiar with the building.
He provided evidence of costs incurred as a result of the second leak.
Covea didnt accept and also made some comments. In summary:
Even if it accepted the original leak was caused by the wall collapse, it didnt think the 
second leak could be linked to it because the stopcock had been replaced. It said this 
meant the flow of loss had been interrupted and the second leak was a separate 
event.
It had accepted liability in January 2020, around a month after the claim for the 
second leak was made. So it didnt think it had caused any delays.
No evidence of structural problems had been provided. Two structural engineers and 
a surveyor had been to the property and none had any concerns about the building.
It doesnt agree it should pay compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill use the same headings as I did in my provisional decision.
Water damageI think Covea has misunderstood my findings on this point. Whilst I thought the first leak was 
likely to have been caused by the wall collapse, the cause of the first leak isnt the key point 
here. Regardless of what caused the leak, Covea chose to replace the stopcock.
When an insurer carries out work, it has a duty to perform a lasting and effective repair. Its 
accepted the stopcock it replaced was leaking less than a year later. In its report, H 
considered this was likely to be because the pipe was insufficiently tightened or was 
incompatible with the stopcock. I understand Mr R shares a similar view.
So, the evidence shows that as a result of the way Covea replaced the stopcock, it leaked 
soon after. Im not persuaded that amounts to performing a lasting and effective repair. In 
summary, Im satisfied the second leak  and the damage it caused  happened because of 
the way Covea dealt with the first leak.
Because of that, I dont think it would be fair for the second leak to be treated as a separate 
claim. But that doesnt mean I think the wall collapse caused the second leak.
To put things right, Covea should pay the cost of any damage caused by the second leak 
without treating it as a new claim. That means it shouldnt charge a second excess. And nor 
should it record a second claim on any internal or external databases  or take into account 
a second claim when calculating premiums.
I had asked Covea to confirm if the premiums had been impacted, but it hasnt done so. As a 
result, I will require it to check this as part of the award I make.
Structural damage
Whilst a number of structural engineers and surveyors have been to the property, my 
understanding was they had all done so in connection with the collapsed wall  not the 
building. So, although none of them have commented on the building, that seems to be 
because they havent been asked to inspect it  rather than because they consider it to be 
unaffected by the wall collapse.
The investigator asked Covea if it had carried out any investigations into the structure of the 
building. It hasnt replied to that query.
The policy is on all all risks basis. That means it covers damage, subject to a number of 
exclusions. Mr R has shown the floor in his flat isnt level. And I understand the building 
making up the overall block of flats has damage internally and externally which Mr R 
believes has arisen since the wall collapse. So there is certainly damage to consider.
I think it would be reasonable for Covea to fund an investigation into the damaged areas to 
see whats caused them  and whether theyre covered by the policy. That will inform 
whether Covea should pay for any further work or investigation to be carried out.
Time taken
Covea says it accepted the claim for the second leak. It may have done so in principle, but 
its unclear what steps its taken in practice to progress the claim.
Usually I would expect an insurer to discuss how to settle an accepted claim with the 
consumer. For example, will the insurer carry out the repair or will it pay the consumer to 
arrange the work? And either way, what is the scope of the work that will be covered?I havent seen anything to indicate these kinds of discussions have taken place. The 
investigator asked Covea for evidence of this but hasnt received a reply. So it remains 
unclear to me how Covea has helped to progress the claim beyond accepting it in principle.
Its because little progress has been achieved by Covea over a prolonged period of time that 
I considered compensation should be paid to Mr R. I still think thats fair.
Next steps
It remains my view that Covea should arrange for the structural problems to be considered. 
Mr R has suggested a local structural engineer and thats an option I would expect Covea to 
consider when choosing who to appoint.
Covea should also arrange for the repairs to the flat to be scheduled. That should involve 
lifting the carpets and floorboards to establish the full extent of water damage. And taking 
into account the findings of the structural investigation.
The schedule should set out the work required to carry out a lasting and effective repair of 
any damage caused by the original landslip and wall collapse and any damage caused by 
the second leak.
Mr R has provided evidence of costs incurred as a result of the second leak. Covea should 
consider them.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to:
Pay the cost of any damage caused by the second leak without treating it as a new 
claim.
Pay any other costs incurred as a direct result of the second leak.
Pay for a suitably qualified independent surveyor or engineer to inspect the building.
Pay £500 compensation.
If a second claim has been recorded:
oremove it from any internal or external databases.
orecalculate any premiums that took it into account as if it didnt exist and 
refund any difference.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman