The complaint
Miss D complains about issues she's experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Startline Motor Finance Limited ("SMF").
What happened
In May 2019 Miss D was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
SMF. At the point of supply the car was 6 years old with mileage of 80,129.
Miss D experienced issues with the car including an engine management system fault and 
the heater not working. The car was returned to the supplying dealer within the first month. 
The hearer matrix was found to be blocked, so the dealer replaced the heater matrix and 
expansion tank.
In June 2019 the heater stopped working again. The car was returned to the dealership and 
the heater matrix was found to be blocked again. Further repairs were carried out.
In August 2019 the car was returned to the dealership again because the heater wasn't 
working. Repairs were carried out which included flushing the system, replacing the front 
radiator and cleaning the heater matrix.
Later in August 2019 Miss D returned the car to the dealership with further issues. The 
dealership found faults with the oil filter seal and the rocket cover seal. It also replaced the 
window switch pack.
Miss D continued to experience issues with the heater. She complained to SMF. In its final 
response, SMF said it had been advised by the dealership that the car had been fully 
repaired and valeted, and that Miss D had been compensated for inconvenience and loss of 
earnings.
Miss D wasn't happy with the response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. She said a reasonable person would expect a functioning heating 
system and that despite more than one attempt at repair the fault hadn't been fixed. The 
investigator said the car wasn't of satisfactory quality and said Miss D should be allowed to 
reject the car.
SMF didn't agree. It said the heating system was a wear and tear component which could 
fail at any time. It also said Miss D had covered 8000 miles since the point of supply and the 
time the complaint was raised in September 2019, which (it said) suggested that the car was 
of satisfactory quality.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1631996reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because SMF has supplied the car under a hire-purchase agreement, there's an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all the relevant factors such as 
(amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply unless the business 
can show otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair 
isn't successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof is 
reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply.
I've looked at the job sheets provided by the dealership. These show that Miss d returned 
the car on several occasions for repair. I can see that there has been more than one attempt 
to repair the heater. Although the dealership has told SMF that it repaired the fault, Miss D 
has said that she's still experiencing the same fault. Miss D's version of events is 
corroborated by a report from a  third party mechanic which has advised that the dashboard 
needs to be removed in order to diagnose and repair the fault.
Based on what I've seen, I think its clear that the business has had the opportunity to repair 
the car as it has completed several repairs. I'm persuaded that these repairs haven't been 
successful because the heater still isn't working properly.
SMF has said that the heater is a part which can fail at any time. However, I don't think a 
reasonable person would expect to have a faulty heater at the point of supply. And I don't 
think a reasonable person would expect to need repeated repairs within the first 6 months  to 
a part of the car which is an essential component. Based on what I've seen, I don't think the 
car is of satisfactory quality.
I've taken account of what SMF has said about the mileage Miss D has covered since the 
point of supply. The car has covered around 8000 miles between May 2019 and September 
2019. Whilst I agree that this is significant mileage, I wouldn't expect a faulty heater to affect 
Miss D's ability to use the car, at least not in the summer months. So I don't think the 
mileage is relevant to this fault. 
In the circumstances, and having regard to the relevant legislation, I think it would be fair to 
tell SMF to allow Miss D to reject the car.
Putting things right
SMF should end the agreement and collect the car. Any deposit paid by Miss D should be 
refunded with interest.
I've thought about whether Miss D should receive a refund of payments she's made under 
the agreement. Although the car has a fault, Miss D has been able to drive it, and she's been 
kept mobile when the car has been returned for repairs. Therefore, I don't think SMF need to 
refund any payments.
Its clear that Miss D has been inconvenienced by matters. She's had to return the car to the 
dealership several times. That said, Miss D has already received compensation of £400. I 
think this is reasonable compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience she's 
suffered, so I won't be asking SMF to pay anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I've given, I uphold the complaint. Startline  Motor Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss D
Refund any deposit paid and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
Emma Davy
Ombudsman