DRN-2441251
The complaint
Mr L complains that a pair of earrings, that he bought with credit provided by 
American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL), were misrepresented to him. He 
wants AESEL to refund the cost to his card. He also complains about the way AESEL 
handled his claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont detail everything 
here. In summary, Mr L complains that the earrings were described by the (overseas) retailer 
as 2.5 carat diamonds encased in white gold". He says that, when he returned home and 
inspected the earrings, he realised they werent as described. He couldnt contact the 
retailer, so he asked AESEL to refund his payment.
AESEL raised a chargeback request, but this wasnt successful. Mr L then made a claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA), but AESEL rejected his claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AESEL 
had processed the claims in a timely manner, without any errors, and that the outcome 
reached was fair and reasonable.
Mr L didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
The documentation he was asked to sign at the point of sale was concealed by the 
retailer and he didnt see what hed signed until he returned home.
AESEL didnt consider his section 75 claim when he asked it to. It tried to stop him 
pursuing a claim and its correspondence was confusing and contained impossible, 
conflicting, and contradictory response timescales.
The investigator has no knowledge of jewellery so wasnt suited to review this complaint.
The store was described as an outlet store and he was told the original price of the 
earrings was US$1,400. So he had no reason to doubt the authenticity of the jewellery 
despite its price.
He bought the earrings in good faith and he understood that he was merely signing sales 
receipts.
Other consumers have had similar experiences with this retailer; and other credit 
providers have refunded their customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I understand Mr Ls strength of feeling on this matter. I want to reassure him that I have fully 
considered everything he has told us, but I am not going to respond to every point one of the 
parties has made or to answer every question raised. That isnt because I havent taken into 
account what Mr L has said, but because my role is to focus on what I consider material to 
the outcome of the complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator. 
I will explain the reasons why.
Chargeback 
Banks can help settle some disputes between customers and retailers by submitting a 
chargeback request for a transaction. Chargeback is a way for customers to dispute certain 
card payments and is run by the card scheme. A chargeback can only be done for certain 
specific reasons, such as the goods not being as described or being faulty, and within 
certain timescales. And theres no obligation on a business to carry out a chargeback, 
although we generally take the view that its good practice for a business to do so where 
theres a reasonable prospect of success.
I find that AESEL submitted a chargeback request but that it was successfully defended by 
the retailer. Based on the evidence supplied by the retailer, I find AESEL acted reasonably  
it temporarily credited Mr Ls account whilst the request was ongoing, but it reapplied the 
amount when the chargeback request was unsuccessful.
Section 75
In considering whether AESEL treated Mr L fairly, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the time. In this case, 
relevant law includes Section 75, amongst others. Importantly, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Rather, when I think about 
what a fair way is to resolve Mr Ls complaint, I have to take account of relevant law, but that 
doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if 
Mr L pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract. This is because, our 
service is an informal alternative to the courts, and it operates under different rules from a 
court.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr L has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the retailer, he can also bring that claim against AESEL provided certain 
conditions are met. 
Mr L says the earrings were misrepresented to him. He says he was told they were diamond 
and white gold but that it was clear when he inspected them that they were costume 
jewellery. Like our investigator, I am not an expert in jewellery or diamonds. But its not 
necessary to have expert knowledge of the items at the heart of this dispute to make a 
finding on whether AESEL has acted fairly and reasonably. 
Ive considered carefully what Mr L says happened at the point of sale. But, as I cant be 
sure exactly what was discussed, Ive relied more on the paperwork that was completed at 
the time. Mr L signed a certificate which says, I am aware that this is a simulated man-made 
product and not a natural stone. Mr L says he wasnt aware of what he was being asked to sign  he says the document was concealed by the retailer with the card receipt and that he 
felt under duress to sign. But the wording which describes the item as a simulated man-
made product appears directly above Mr Ls signature. So I think its more likely than not 
that he would have been able to see this statement before he signed the certificate. And the 
certificate did not contain a lot of information so I think he could have reasonably checked 
what he was signing. Im not persuaded that the key wording was deliberately concealed 
from him or that he felt pressured into signing it.
Based on the information provided by the retailer, I think it was reasonable for AESEL to 
conclude that there hadnt been a misrepresentation or breach of contract here. It follows 
that I dont think AESEL has treated Mr L unfairly or unreasonably in not upholding his claim.
Mr L says other consumers in similar circumstances have been provided with a refund by 
their credit provider. But my role is to consider the individual circumstances of this complaint, 
and the outcome of other section 75 claims does not alter what Ive concluded happened 
here.
Customer service
Mr L has provided detailed comments about his contact with AESEL and the poor service 
which he says he received. Rather than responding to each of the points hes raised, Ive 
considered whether I think AESEL has treated Mr L fairly overall. And I think it has. I accept 
that some of the timescales AESEL set for Mr L to provide information were, in some cases, 
very tight. But for chargeback requests, the timescales are set by the card scheme operator 
and AESEL had no choice but to act within these timescales if there was to be any prospect 
of a successful claim. I also accept that there may have been a miscommunication or 
misunderstanding between staff at AESEL about Mr Ls claim under section 75  because 
the chargeback and the section 75 claim were dealt with by different departments. But I dont 
find AESEL acted to dissuade Mr L from making a claim. And I dont find that any delays 
have affected the overall outcome here  the section 75 claim would not have been upheld 
had it been dealt with any earlier.
As I cant conclude AESEL acted unfairly or unreasonably, I dont require it to refund Mr L or 
pay him any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman