DRN-1226273
The complaint
Mr D complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably 
when dealing with his claim under a legal expenses policy. He wants matters put right, 
including compensation for the aggravation of his stress related disability.
What happened
Mr D had a legal expenses insurance policy with Legal & General. He said that he received 
a landlord notice upon him asking him to pay £141.30, despite the fact his property was 
freehold and not under a lease. Mr D made a claim under his policy. He said that Legal & 
General caused delay, and then declined his claim on the basis that it wasn't covered and 
the amount sought from Mr D was less than £250. Mr D objected to the decline and said that 
the insurance contract should be interpreted as if read by a reasonable person, and legal 
definitions shouldn't be applied as it was unfair to the public.
Legal & General accepted that it had taken too long to verify Mr D's cover and its terms, and 
paid £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this. But it said that it was 
correct to decline the claim. The policy only covered particular legal matters arising from an 
insured event, and Mr D's claim didn't fall under any of those events. Legal & General 
explained that the claim against Mr D arose from a covenant from a title deed and the 
obligation to pay towards communal areas, rather than a contract for goods or services. It 
didn't accept that the circumstances met the legal definition of "nuisance", which was about 
something that affected the property, not the owner, such as noise, loss of light of a blocked 
right of way.
Mr D complained to us, and added that he was unhappy with the time taken for Legal & 
General to respond to his complaint. The investigator's view was that the complaint shouldn't 
be upheld. She said that the policy, amongst other things, covered contract claims in relation 
to the purchase goods and services, and it was reasonable to say this didn't include claims 
under a covenant; there was no service charge agreement. The investigator said that a 
dispute with a property management company wasn't a nuisance claim and it was 
reasonable and fair to apply the legal definition to decline Mr D's claim. She said it was the 
definition used by all insurers and there was no evidence Mr D only bought the policy 
because he believed this issue would be covered or that another policy would apply Mr D's 
definition of nuisance.
The investigator also said that the amount sought originally from Mr D was £141.30, and it 
was fair to note this was under the £250 requirement to be covered, despite the costs 
escalating due to Mr D's refusal to pay. She agreed that it did take too long to verify Mr D's 
policy, but thought £100 compensation was fair and reasonable as the delay didn't affect the 
claim, and it wasn't covered anyway by the policy.
Mr D disagreed. He said that the investigator was confused and overlooked the fact that 
ultimately Mr D successfully defended the claim. Mr D reiterated that the legal definition of 
nuisance shouldn't have been applied.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When I refer to Legal & General, I'm also 
referring to its agents.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Legal & General has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldn't reject a claim unreasonably.
Whether Mr D's defence had a good prospect of success is irrelevant as his claim wasn't 
rejected on that basis. But it is relevant that Mr D not only wanted help to defend the claim 
against him, but also wanted to pursue the company itself. It's relevant because Mr D said 
the claim he wanted to bring was a nuisance claim; that would have to be done in court, and 
they apply legal definitions.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy itself. From reading it, it's clear 
that it doesn't cover disputes over covenants arising from a title deed as this isn't a contract 
to purchase goods or services. All that Mr D is left with is nuisance. The claim brought 
against Mr D wasn't a nuisance claim; it appears that the claim wasn't issued in court 
anyway. Mr D might want to bring a nuisance claim, but as Legal & General has explained, 
that a claim for nuisance isn't about the individual feeling that someone is being a nuisance 
to them personally, but about an impact on the property itself. The classic nuisance claim is 
about noise for example. I think it's fair and reasonable for Legal & General to apply the 
accepted and legal definition of nuisance, not least because it is the definition a court would 
apply and Mr D's claim doesn't fit within that framework, and it's a well-understood term.
And the claim brought against Mr D was only for £141.30. The policy says claims for under 
£250 aren't covered, and it says so clearly in the exclusions. As the claim didn't go to court, 
court fees aren't relevant. It's fair and reasonable for Legal & General to say the claim was 
declined on the basis.
But this service doesn't just look at the terms and conditions of the policy. We also consider 
whether in the circumstances it's fair and reasonable to apply the terms and conditions. In 
this case, I'm satisfied that it was. The policy clearly set out what was and wasn't covered. It 
wasn't designed to cover every possible claim.
It's clear that Legal & General did take too long to verify the policy and start to consider if the 
claim was covered. It wasn't pro-active and it appears that Legal & General didn't co-operate 
with its agent and just left the matter to drift. But the delay didn't cause financial loss, and 
made no practical difference as the claim was fairly and reasonably declined. I accept Mr D 
suffered trouble and upset, but it was minimal, based on the evidence I've seen from Mr D. I 
think £100 compensation was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 
30 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman