DRN-3678209
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund payments he says he didnt make 
from his account.
What happened
Mr M disputes multiple card payments made to a petrol station retailer between 15 June and 
23 September 2021. The total is over £330. He says that he had his card in his possession 
and didnt allow anyone else to use it. He is unhappy with the way that Bank of Scotland 
dealt with his claim.
Bank of Scotland said it wouldnt be refunding this money. The payments were contactless 
ones which meant that the card needed to be present. And there was no explanation about 
how someone else could have made them or why Mr M didnt notice them earlier. It paid him 
£40 as a gesture of goodwill for reporting the issue.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He set out 16 disputed 
payments for Mr M with the date and time and showed that his card was generally used for 
genuine purchases on the days in between them. He said hed have expected a fraudster to 
take as much money as quickly as possible from the account. And if a fraudster had been 
able to take the card then that person would also need to have replaced it each time so Mr M 
could use it. Mr M said that he always had the card with him and that none of his family 
members he lived with would have used it. Our investigator said that there was no 
explanation for how an unknown third party could have taken and used the card. He had 
listened to a call Mr M had with Bank of Scotland and didnt agree that this was handled 
inappropriately.
Mr M didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said he thought his card 
must have been cloned. And that other people had the same issue at the retailer. He said 
that he was never given a choice of receiving a card that didnt have a contactless facility. 
And as soon as he asked for a card that wasnt contactless the payments stopped. He had 
wanted someone to be interested in looking into the fraud and he was insulted by the 
suggestion he was capable of fraud. Mr M said he had lost a significant amount of money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a bank card. And if they werent authorised  
Mr M wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr M authorise the payments on the account which could have involved allowing 
someone else to use the card?
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im considering what is most likely.
Ive seen the audit logs for the payments in dispute. And I can see that each was a 
contactless payment that involved the chip on the genuine card. I know Mr M thinks his card 
was cloned but weve not seen evidence of the chip being cloned for general use. Im 
satisfied that the payments were authenticated. 
I agree with our investigator that a fraudster in possession of Mr Ms card would most likely 
look to have as much money as quickly as possible. I appreciate that these were contactless 
payments which were subject to a limit. But there were gaps of days between the disputed 
use of the card and some payments were as low as around £15. There was a significant 
balance available in Mr Ms account. 
The card would also have to be taken and replaced without Mr M knowing and so he would 
be able to use it for his genuine purchases. That would be a significant risk for a fraudster, 
and it is unclear why such a person would go to that trouble here.
Mr M has firmly stated that no one known to him from his household would have taken the 
card and used it. He didnt give anyone permission to do so. And Im afraid I also cant see a 
likely way in which an unknown third party could have obtained the card in this way either - 
especially as Mr M said it was always with him.
I know Mr M wanted Bank of Scotland to do more to investigate things. It explained to Mr M 
thats the role of the police who may have been able to obtain CCTV evidence at the times of 
the payments. Ive listened to the call when Mr M reported things having gone into a branch 
first. He was unhappy with the outcome, but I dont find that the person he spoke to was 
unreasonable in the approach and in the questions that were asked of him. A complaint was 
logged as Mr M requested. 
I need to make my decision on the evidence thats available. And having balanced all the 
factors here I dont have a reasonable basis to find it most likely that these payments werent 
authorised by Mr M. I appreciate he will be very disappointed by that outcome and as I wont 
be requiring Bank of Scotland to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman