DRN-4034059
The complaint
Mr M complains that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (Options  formerly Carey 
Pensions) shouldnt have accepted the transfer of his defined benefit (DB) pension scheme 
into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
The parties involved
Given there were several parties involved in Mr Ms pension transfer and subsequent 
investment, Ive briefly described them below: 
Options
Options is a SIPP provider and administrator. At the time of the events in this complaint, 
Options was regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later became the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Options was authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange 
(bring about) deals in investments, to deal in investments as principal, to establish, operate 
or wind up a pension scheme, and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in 
investments.
Caledonian International Associates 
Caledonian International Associates (Caledonian) was the trading name of MMG 
Associates, which was registered in the British Virgin Islands. Caledonian wasnt authorised 
in the UK to undertake regulated activities and it doesnt (and didnt at the time of the events 
subject to complaint here) appear on the FCAs Financial Services Register. And there is no 
evidence it was authorised to carry out regulated activities (where there was any relevant 
legislation) in any other jurisdiction.
Business C
Business C is an investment manager, based in the Isle of Man. The evidence is that 
Business C agreed to manage or provide oversight of some of the investments taken out by 
Caledonians customers after they had transferred their pensions. I shall call the individual 
representing Business C, who was involved in some of Caledonians general dealings with 
Options, Mr P.
Friends Provident International
Friends Provident International (FPI) is registered in the Isle of Man. It provided a bond (i.e. 
life assurance) wrapper which allows investment in a number of funds with a number of fund 
providers. Mr M invested in a number of investments within a FPI bond.
What happened
Mr M had an occupational DB pension from his time working in the Armed Forces. He cant 
recall exactly how he came into contact with Caledonian, but as he had no interest in 
transferring his pension or investing prior to speaking with it, he believes one of his friends 
or colleagues may have passed on his details which led to it contacting him.
Mr M has said Caledonian told him he would have a much better pension if he transferred. 
He trusted Caledonian and understood he was receiving advice from it.
In late October 2012, Caledonian prepared an Armed Forces Pension Scheme Analysis for 
Mr M. This report compared six areas of difference between Transfer to SIPP and Armed 
Forces Pension Scheme. The six areas were retirement age, death benefit, investment 
control, income tax, currency of denomination and guaranteed income. There was also a 
projection of how the SIPP might perform. The following wording was on the front page of 
the document:
This is intended solely as a general overview and should be in no way considered 
advice 
Soon after, Mr M signed Options Application Form For Direct Clients. Then, in mid-
November 2012, Caledonian submitted the completed SIPP application to Options, including 
a checklist of enclosures. The following items were ticked: [Options] Application, [Armed 
Forces Pension Scheme, Pension Transfer Department] Letter, [Pension Transfer Value], 
[Options] Instruction Letter, LOA for Caledonian, Transfer Letter, Signed Fee Structure, 
Passport, Utility/Bank Stat/Driving Lic, Trust Document, Non-Solicitation Certificate and 
Advice (my emphasis).
On the application form, Mr M confirmed his UK address, age, occupation and annual 
earnings. He also nominated the beneficiary of his SIPP in the event of his death and 
confirmed hed be transferring approximately £19,000 from the Armed Forces Pension 
Scheme (AFPS). The form confirmed his SIPP was to be invested entirely into a bond 
provided by FPI but provided no details of the underlying investments.
The selected retirement age, details of the transferring AFPS and details of the investment 
had been prepopulated  they werent handwritten like the rest of the form. And the box 
waiving cancellation rights was ticked. 
The final page of the application form, headed Declaration, included amongst other 
statements, the following:
I understand that it is my sole responsibility to make decisions relating to the 
purchase, retention or sale of any investments held within the [Options] Pension 
Scheme
I agree to indemnify [Options] against any claim in respect of any decision made by 
myself and/or my Financial Adviser/Investment Manager or any other professional 
adviser I choose to appoint from time to time
I understand that [Options] are not in anyway (sic) able to provide me with any 
advice
Mr M also signed Options Fee Schedulefor Caledonian International Clients. This set out 
that Options would pay Caledonian a fee of £250 once the SIPP was established.
The paperwork included a separate, page-long indemnity form headed with a table which 
detailed the member name, address, occupational scheme name, occupational scheme type and adviser. Ill call this the member declaration. It was signed by both Mr M and a 
Caledonian representative. Caledonians representative was named as the adviser and the 
representatives name was entered in the space for adviser name in the signature box. The 
declaration included, amongst other statements:
I confirm that I have received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian 
International and following this advice I wish to proceed with the transfer.
It concluded with the statement:
I fully indemnify [Options] at all times against any and all liability arising from this 
transaction. 
Enclosed with the application was a letter of authority, signed by Mr M, instructing Options to 
share information with Caledonian. The address given for Caledonian was in Switzerland.
Also enclosed was a letter, signed by Mr M and addressed only to Dear Sirs, stating the 
following:
I hereby confirm my understanding that, in electing to transfer as above, I will be 
forfeiting my entitlement to a defined level of benefit, at or before the normal 
retirement age for which the Ceding Scheme provides. I accept that the prospective 
levels of pension and death benefits, in the Receiving Scheme, to the extent that 
such benefits are derived from my cash equivalent transfer value from the Ceding 
Scheme, will be dependant (sic) upon investment performance in the period between 
the date of the transfer and any date of settlement of benefits, and that benefits from 
the Receiving Scheme might be of a lesser value than those that would have been 
available if I had remained a deferred member of the Ceding Scheme. I acknowledge 
that any guaranteed element of benefit, such as would have been provided both for 
me, and for my dependant(s) in the event of my death, will no longer be available 
once I have transferred from the Ceding Scheme to the Receiving Scheme.
I acknowledge that neither the SIPP Company nor any other Pension Company has 
advised me in respect of my decision to transfer my cash equivalent transfer value, 
from the Ceding Scheme. I acknowledge that the SIPP company has recommended 
that I should seek independent financial advice, before reaching the decision to 
which this letter refers, and I acknowledge that the SIPP company will act upon my 
instructions on an 'execution only' basis.
Further, a signed Certificate of Non-Solicitation specific to Mr M was enclosed, which was 
intended for FPI. This said:
This company is not authorised to conduct investment business in the United 
Kingdom. We acknowledge that this means that you are only able to accept the 
introduction from us if we have not been carrying on investment business in the 
United Kingdom.
We therefore certify that:
(i) We do not have a permanent place of business in the United Kingdom; and
(ii) We did not approach the above named client
(iii) The advice was given in Jordan(iv) The client approached us directly and requested us to give him advice
Options set up Mr Ms SIPP shortly after receiving his application.
In January 2013, Caledonian sent Options discharge forms, signed by Mr M, confirming he 
wished to transfer out of the AFPS. Options forwarded these to the AFPS.
In February 2013, Options, as trustees of Mr Ms SIPP, completed an FPI application form 
for the investment account named Zenith. Caledonian International Associates was 
entered in the spaces for Your financial adviser and Name of Investment Adviser Firm. 
The address provided for Caledonian was an office in Chile. This application was signed in 
was answered UK. And the advice was given in was answered Jordan. Caledonian had 
signed the form before Options, in November 2012.
Next, Options sent the majority of the transfer proceeds it had received from the AFPS to 
FPI for investment.
Options sent Mr M his first annual SIPP statement in November 2013. This showed that it 
had made a payment of £250 to Caledonian, described as IFA Fees, in March 2013.
In May 2016, Mr M emailed Options requesting a copy of his latest FPI statement. This was 
in preparation for a meeting with Caledonian, which he described as my adviser.
In September 2017, Mr M again emailed Options requesting a copy of his latest FPI 
statement. He mentioned this was in preparation for an advice meeting with Caledonian. 
Options sent him the requested statement.
In May 2019, Mr M transferred his SIPP to another provider.
Mr Ms complaint
Mr M complained to Options in October 2020, via a Claims Management Company (CMC).
The CMC, on Mr Ms behalf, said Options had caused him losses by accepting an instruction 
from an unregulated, overseas adviser to transfer his DB pension scheme. The CMC felt 
Options should have been alert to the possibility that Caledonian was providing advice and 
failed to identify the risks involved in the transfer. In the CMCs view, Options had breached 
several FCA Principles.
To put things right, Mr M was seeking to be put back in the position he would have been in 
had the transfer not taken place, together with an award reflecting the worry and distress 
caused.
Options response to Mr Ms complaint
Options issued its final response rejecting Mr Ms complaint in December 2020. In summary, 
it said:
Its understanding, as confirmed by Mr M in his SIPP application, was that Caledonian 
acted only as an introducer and hadnt provided advice.
It provides execution-only (i.e. non-advised) SIPP administration services as 
explained in all the documentation provided to Mr M when he signed up to his SIPP.It would have been in breach of COBS 11.2.19R if it hadnt executed Mr Ms specific 
investment instruction  by virtue of this rule it isnt liable to Mr M.
It isnt permitted to provide advice, or to comment on the suitability of a SIPP, the 
underlying investments or the introducer chosen by the member.
It undertook due diligence on Caledonian, giving it no reason to believe it shouldnt 
accept introductions from this source, at the time of setting up Mr Ms SIPP.
It wasnt restricted to dealing only with regulated introducers. Caledonian was at all 
times treated as an unregulated introducer and it had strict processes in place for 
dealing with such firms, which were followed.
Mr M signed documentation which made clear he was a direct client, hadnt received 
advice, his investment choices were his sole responsibility, and suggested he seek 
regulated financial advice, but he chose not to do so.
Mr M didnt inform it that Caledonian had advised him  and it cant be held 
responsible for information that wasnt disclosed to it.
The relationship between Caledonian and Options
Ive set out the background to Mr Ms complaint and his dealings with Caledonian and 
Options above. But alongside those events its important to understand the underlying 
relationship between Caledonian and Options. 
Options has said that it carried out due diligence checks on Caledonian and has provided 
supporting evidence of the checks it made.
Ive set out below a summary of what I consider to be the key events and/or actions during 
the relationship between Options and Caledonian, which Ive observed from the available 
evidence (this includes evidence from Mr Ms case file and submissions Options has made 
to us about its due diligence on, and its relationship with, Caledonian).
In March 2012, a business profile was completed which recorded Options first meeting with 
Mr C of Caledonian where he set out their proposed business model. This set out that Mr C 
was preferred adviser (my emphasis) for the Armed Forces occupational pension scheme 
for clients who were described as:
30 to 50 year olds
Had been in the armed forces for between 6 to 10 years
Had left the armed forces and wanted to transfer their pension arrangements
They had no expectation of long life expectancy
They were living today so wanted to access funds earlier then they could if their 
pension stayed in the armed forces pension scheme
They were generally still resident in UK but some were now living abroad in various 
countries such as Thailand, Germany, Spain etc.They were now earning quite large salaries circa £70k plus
The business profile detailed that clients were referred to Mr C from his Armed Forces 
pensions contact or by other clients, and that he was currently putting them into an 
international Friends Provident Bond, the underlying investments were regulated. It went on:
[Mr C] himself was not a regulated adviser, he was a consultant to these clients and 
advised (my emphasis) them on their armed forces transfers only, he was a qualified 
accountant and was a member of the Chartered Institute of Accountants 
He was developing a relationship with [Mr P], and may consider [Business C] as an 
alternative investment provider in due course. Although he was currently wanting a 
relationship with a SIPP provider. 
[Mr C] was looking at volume business in the region of 50 schemes a month.
On 16 March 2012, Mr C signed and dated Options Non-Regulated Introducer Profile. The 
form began: 
As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence 
as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to 
gain some insight into the business they carry out  
In the company information section Mr C explained that Caledonian had been trading since 
1997 and had branches in Chile, Peru, Colombia, Argentina, Brazil and Switzerland. He 
went on to detail that they dealt with the following products:
Offshore savings plans + investment bonds  Friends Provident International + 
Generali
And indicated that these products had been accepted by other SIPP providers, including 
Options, and hadnt been declined by any pension scheme operators. 
Under the heading Sales and Marketing Approach the document detailed that clients would 
be obtained by referral and that the sales process would be:
Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit
A question on the form about typical commission structure was answered:
7% up front from bond  0.5% trail
Under the heading Training and Information Mr C explained that agents were provided with 
ongoing product training and accompanied meetings and that their pensions training was 
delivered through visits to providers directly. He went on to say that the business produced 
by agents was monitored by:
Full administrative structure  Caledonian, [Options]  compliance, FPI  
compliance 
Under the heading Legal and Regulatory Information Mr C confirmed that Caledonian didnt 
work with any FSA regulated company or adviser, wasnt a member of any professional or industry body, had no professional indemnity insurance, and hadnt been subject to any FSA 
supervisory visits or censure.
In response to the question: What measures are in place to ensure the Firm engage legal 
advice on the activities it carries out to ensure regulated activities are not carried out? the 
response read:
Majority of business carried out in unregulated jurisdictions but where regulations 
apply we are licensed to carry out our activities.
To the question: How does the firm demonstrate it is treating its customers fairly? the 
response read: 
Compliance & Procedures in current alignment with FSA TCF. 
Mr Cs other responses on the form were that Caledonians business objective was to 
continue to develop a fully compliant business of PT to HM Forces and that with regards to 
member-directed pension scheme business they were looking to achieve compliant 
business in a regulated structure.
On 23 March 2012, Options asked Mr C by email for a copy of Caledonians latest company 
accounts and a certified copy of each directors/principals passport. Options chased for a 
response to this email on 3 April. A Senior Consultant at Caledonian then supplied a copy of 
Mr Cs passport (uncertified) and said theyd ask Mr C about the accounts when he returned 
from a trip. On 4 April, Mr C emailed Options:
 my apologies for not having replied before now I am back tomorrow Thursday 
and will have te (sic) appropriate documents over to you early next week
On 27 April 2012, Options started to receive introductions from Caledonian (Options has 
confirmed there were 509 introductions made to it by Caledonian between 27 April 2012 and 
20 May 2013).
On 1 August 2012, ahead of a compliance audit, a Team Leader at Options contacted 
Caledonian to ask again for the certified passports and annual accounts. In an internal email 
the Team Leader confirmed shed spoken with Mr C and hed be sending an urgent request 
for the documentation we require.
On 4 September 2012, a Non-regulated Introducer Agreement Terms of Business 
document between Options and MMG Associates Ltd T/A Caledonian International 
Associates was signed and dated by Mr C and Options CEO. That agreement included, 
amongst other terms, the following undertaking:
The Business Introducer undertakes that they will not provide advice as defined by 
the Act in relation to the SIPP  for the avoidance of doubt this includes reference to 
advice on the selection of The SIPP Operator, contributions, transfer of benefits, 
taking benefits and HMRC rules; 
On that agreement, Mr C gave an address in Switzerland as the business address.
Options has said that these terms of business were received by Caledonian in March 2012  
so it seems there was a delay in Mr C signing and returning them.On 1 November 2012, Options conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which 
allows subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on two 
Caledonian employees  one of which was Mr C. This check did not reveal any issues.
Options has said that in early 2013, it appointed a dedicated in-house compliance officer 
and they enhanced the compliance framework within the firm, compliance monitoring 
programme and risk assessment.
On 7 March 2013, an internal email was sent by an Options Manager to several other 
Options employees summarising a call shed held with Mr C. The summary included these 
key points:
Options had explained that following recent FSA reviews and guidance SIPP 
providers were being asked to look at business received from their introducers 
against expectations of type and profile.
Options explained that several applications received recently had moved away from 
the expected profile of client and queried whether the profile was 
changing/extending.
Mr C explained that predominantly the members were in the close protection 
industry which as @5 years ago they all went into. He said that foreign operatives 
were now coming in in a more organised structure. Some were getting promoted into 
senior positions. Many were previously divers in the military and so going into Diving 
elsewhere.
Options asked Mr C to put together a note for its CEO to update Caledonians 
business profile and expectations. 
On 20 March 2013, the Options Manager sent Mr C an email following up on their 
conversation. Options asked again for an update as to the changes in profile, and 
highlighted that a further two applications had been received for individuals outside of the 
expected profile. 
Options has provided a document titled Overseas Introducer Assessment Proforma. This 
document is undated but, given that it refers to recently received business outside of profile 
and also the World Check completed in November 2012, I think its likely to have been 
completed around the end of March 2013, and certainly no earlier than November 2012. 
Ive set out below what I consider to be the most relevant parts of the form recorded, and the 
level of risk that was noted:
Heading Notes Risk
Section 1  Company Assessment
Google Search and 
FCANo adverse comments Low
Regulatory Cannot find any regulatory information from 
the details heldHigh
Company No UK branch. Cannot see any EEA 
regulatory detailsUnknown company Mainly mediumestablishment time  cannot find any details 
from information received. No accounts 
requested? No Articles of association 
requested? /received
Compliance Officer Unknown if have compliance officer or not High
Professional 
QualificationsNo qualifications documented other than 
meeting note from March 2012 where [Mr C] 
stated he was a qualified accountantHigh
Meeting Meeting held at [Options] UK office March 
2012Medium
Section 2  Advice/Client Profile/Investment
Advice Unregulated  No details of how advice 
given. No regulatory bodies/permissions 
seen. Although suggested on email that 
advice given in Jordan? Advice possibly 
given in Jordan, although not sure if true for 
UK based clients
It was also noted that the funds for 
investment within the SIPP were to be 
generated from:
Transfers from Armed Forces Pension 
occupational SchemeHigh
Client Profile Client Profile: 30-50 years old. Part of armed 
forces 6- 10 years. Generally still UK 
residents, some abroad.
Now working in security earning c. £70k pa. 
HOWEVER, recently received business 
outside of profile.High
Investment Initially Friends Provident International Bond. 
Now using [Business J]. Both FCA 
regulated.Low
At the end of the Company Assessment section the overall result was recorded as amber, a 
result described as queries to raise. The wording against this result read:
Details are a mixture of green and amber raise with technical review committee 
before proceeding
The overall result at the end of the Advice/Client Profile/Investment section was recorded 
as red, a result described as decline. 
On 26 April 2013, an Options Compliance Officer sent an email to several other Options 
employees titled Review of relationship with Caledonian. It began:We have a responsibility to proactively monitor our distribution channels to ensure 
our products do not end up with customers for whom it is not suitable. Based on 
recent correspondence with Caledonian I am increasingly concerned by their 
business practices and therefore believe we should review our relationship with them 
and the business they have introduced. I will arrange a meeting for next week to 
discuss. In the meantime we need to determine the answers to the questions below 
to help facilitate our discussions.
The Options Compliance Officer then set out 18 questions and statements about Caledonian 
and the relationship with Options and invited recipients of the email to please provide 
answers to the following where you can. 
On 30 April 2013, another member of the Compliance Team inserted her answers and 
comments:
Overview of business
Date relationship commenced: April/May 2012
What is the agreed profile of clients introduced by Caledonian: Ex Armed Forces, 
Approx age 38, working in the Close protection industry (security), earnings of 
Approx £70k
Number of clients introduced: 497 (363 now invested, 134 ongoing) 
Value of investments held: £16m 
Nature of investments, i.e. any alternative investments: Friends Provident Int. 
(Funds) or, [Business J] Investment Platform with [Business C] acting as DFM.
Number of complaints from Caledonian introduced clients: None 
How many transfers were also accompanied by a TVAS [Transfer Value Analysis]? 
Who has provided the TVAS? 37  Only TVs over £100k (from Armed Forces 
Pension) or any amount no matter how small on other TVs. TVAS provided by 
[Mr P] ([Business C])
Overview of Caledonian
What due diligence was undertaken on Caledonian prior to establishing the 
relationship?  Unknown but AML was received. 
Location of head office: Geneva, Switzerland
Do they have a business address in the UK? They confirm that they do not have a 
permanent place of business in the UK, however they have a business address 
for correspondence and [Mr C] is based in the UK [address]
Where do they meet with clients, i.e. in the UK? Unknown.
What is Caledonian's regulatory status, i.e. are they regulated in their home 
jurisdiction? [Mr C] - The Chartered Insurance Institute - ID Number XXXXX. [Mr 
C] certifies all ID and signs the Investment Application Form.Are they regulated to provide advice in their home jurisdiction? Unknown
They have confirmed that they provide advice in Jordan. How does this work? Do 
they have a place of business in Jordan? Do they need to be regulated in Jordan to 
provide advice? Unknown - Caledonian provide a Non Solicitation Letter which 
is sent to Friends Provident with the investment App. A copy of a Non 
Solicitation Letter is attached 
How did we establish Caledonians knowledge of SIPPs and UK pension rules? 
Unknown
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to 
clients, do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? 
Yes due to illustrations
Do Caledonian provide advice on investments within the SIPP? Caledonian send to 
us the Friends Provident Investment Applications with the Application to set 
up the SIPP. The funds table in the investment App is pre-populated by 
Caledonian. The Member does see a copy of this document  which we send to 
them prior to investing their funds. 
What due diligence did we undertake on [Business C]? Unknown
Options CEO responded later that day. She wrote:
To add to [Options employees] information. I attach a business profile which details 
how the relationship emerged with Caledonian which provides background 
information, also the process notes that were agreed at a meeting held in our old MK 
offices which was a workshop to present our SIPP proposition and understand their 
business better In answer to some of [Options employees] unknowns
Where do they meet with clients? Generally abroad depending on where their next 
assignment is, they will also hold meetings in the UK
Are they regulated to give advice in their home jurisdication (sic)? No because they 
are not regulated they are introducers of business
They have confirmed they give advice in Jordan? When they mean advice they are 
talking about consultancy they are not regulated in any jurisdication (sic)
How did we establish their knowledge of UK Pension and SIPP marketplace? By 
meeting with them twice and by running a workshop for them output from which is 
attached
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to 
clients, do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? I 
am not sure it is our place to comment on this maybe on the information but not on 
advice, if we commented on whether we thought even our regulated advisers were 
providing poor advice I would probably think we would say yes. Think we need to be 
careful what questions we are looking to answer comfortable on the information piece 
but not on the advice pieceDo Caledonian provide advice on investments within the SIPP? No they don't, they 
consult with the client on the feasibility of transferring their Armed Forces Pension 
Scheme into a SIPP and their partner to manage the investment is [Business C] 
On 10 May 2013, Options CEO sent Caledonian an email requesting further information. 
The email confirmed Options was reviewing its terms of business in light of recent 
announcements from the FCA and our internal compliance reviews.
Options made clear it was keen to continue doing business with Caledonian but must do so 
in a framework that is robust and compliant and will satisfy the regulators. The email 
continued, so we must start with ensuring we understand each stage of the process, to 
enable us to develop a robust and compliant process for this business moving forward. 
Options said that as a starting point it would like Caledonian to clarify a number of issues. 
The email read:
1. Can you provide your organisational structure and the jurisdiction in which each is 
registered and the regulation/regulator that each company operates within. If you are 
relying on any exemptions please state which exemptions and the reasons you 
believe you can operate within those exemptions
 2. Are you giving advice and if so in what capacity and under what regulatory 
environment are you providing this advice.
3. What offices do you have and where, do the jurisdictions in which you have offices 
have a regulatory regime, if so can you provide details of the regulators in those 
jurisdictions. 
4. On what basis are you providing illustrations and the reasons for this basis 
5. Do you meet all your clients in Jordan, if not why do your Non Solicitation forms 
signed by yourself confirm the advice was given in Jordan 
6. Please confirm the profile of your clients 
7. Please confirm how you receive introductions to your clients 
8. Can you update information about your team their background, expertise in 
dealing with pensions 
9. On the Non Solicitation letters you note that Caledonian does not have a 
permanent place of business in the UK. However, you request correspondence to be 
sent to The Pensions Service Centre, [UK city]. Please can you clarify Caledonian's 
presence in the UK and the nature of the office in [UK city]. 
The email closed with a reminder to Caledonian that from 1 May 2013 Options had 
implemented some changes to its requirements and must have a UK FCA regulated adviser 
providing the TVAS and the sign off for the suitability of transfers from occupational schemes 
of any values. 
On 15 May 2013, Options sent an internal email which was a summary of a telephone 
conversation with Mr P of Business C. The summary recorded that:
Mr P confirmed that an FCA regulated adviser would be providing the TVAS reports on all Caledonian introduced clients. This adviser would produce TVAS reports on 
the back book of business with Caledonian.
On this understanding Options had agreed they would continue to process 
applications where the TVAS report was currently being issued by Mr P.
Options says that the last introduction made to it by Caledonian was on 20 May 2013.
On 23 May 2013, Options met with Mr P of Business C and Mr C of Caledonian. In the 
handwritten summary of that meeting the following was noted:
Mr C was a consultant to the Armed Forces and not an adviser in the FCA sense.
The [UK City] address was a postal address and not a working office.
Mr C met with clients in the UK but initial contact was abroad. The client would 
contact Caledonian if they wanted to transfer their pension (it was noted that the 
documents said that he met them in Jordan and that FPI need a letter about where 
advice was given).
Caledonians website didnt mention that it would give advice, and their documents 
made it clear no advice was given and clients should take advice from a regulated 
adviser.
Mr P explained that the reason for lots of transfers was the market and their 
relationship with the providers.
The proposal going forward involved an appointed representative of a Manchester 
IFA being a pension specialist of Business C  it had the necessary qualifications. 
Going forward the Manchester IFA would deal with business.
Options agreed to allow Caledonian a four-week window to put the proposal in place.
The question about advice was irrelevant to Options as no advice is given  FPI want 
a letter about advice but no advice is given.
Caledonian said its illustrations were provided to facilitate the business. Options 
queried whether this was advice.
A question was noted  is there a terms of business for Caledonian with client? 
I havent seen evidence showing any of the agreed actions were completed. As noted, 
Options did not accept any further business from Caledonian after 20 May 2013.
Options decided to review its relationship with Caledonian. Its provided a copy of its 
document headed Caledonian Relationship Review 2013. Ive reviewed the document in 
full, but have only quoted below what I consider to be the key part:
Following a detailed review of the process and documentation concerns were 
raised regarding whether the clients could be deemed to be receiving advice through 
an unregulated entity. 
Following a request for further clarification on these points we have not been able to 
satisfy ourselves that this is not the case.We have insisted that they move to a model that all cases are fully advised by an 
FCA regulated firm/individual, which has been accepted
Following a meeting in the Milton Keynes office where [Mr C] from Caledonian, and 
[Mr P] of [Business C] explained their current process and documentation and 
described their future process, [and] further discussionsit was decided that they 
had not satisfied us enough with their current processes for us to continue to allow 
taking on new business in the interim without the use of a UK regulated firm or 
individual who was suitably qualified. 
[Options] has instructed the team of this decision so from week beginning 28th May 
any new business received will be rejected unless it comes through an FCA 
regulated firm.
It set out a detailed process by which Caledonian proposed to move to a model where all 
clients would be fully advised by an FCA regulated firm/individual, and it highlighted the 
benefits of this new approach as being:
All schemes are coming in on an advised basis
Brings the process and clients into the UK regulated process
Brings the clients into the FSCS and FOS protections
Ensures all occupational schemes undergo analysis and advice
I havent seen evidence that this approach was ever enacted  again, as noted, no further 
business introduced by Caledonian was accepted by Options after 20 May 2013.
Our Investigators view
Mr Ms complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service in December 2020. 
While it was awaiting an initial assessment, Options told us that it considered it had been 
made out of time under our rules. Its reasoning was Mr M had raised his complaint more 
than six years after applying for his SIPP  and when he applied, he had signed a 
declaration confirming he understood he would be losing a secure pension for life, that the 
decision was his and if he had any concerns he shouldnt proceed. So, Options felt at the 
point Mr M raised his complaint, he had been aware for more than three years that by 
transferring he was losing a secure pension for life and may suffer a loss as a result. 
One of our Investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. In summary, they:
Thought Mr M would have believed he would be better off transferring when he 
signed the declaration referred to by Options, given the high returns quoted on the 
Caledonian projection. 
Said they had seen nothing to suggest Mr M had become aware of his cause for 
complaint about Options prior to speaking with his CMC.
Considered that Mr M wouldnt have become aware of his cause for complaint until 
2019 at the earliest, following a court judgement which confirmed SIPP providers 
could be held accountable for inadequate due diligence.Said they were satisfied the complaint had been made in time, for the above reasons. 
So, they had gone on to consider the merits of the complaint.
Set out the considerations relevant to reaching their view on the merits of Mr Ms 
complaint, including the FCAs Principles for Businesses, publications issued by the 
FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA), and relevant case law.
Considered Options ought to have concluded at the outset of its relationship with 
Caledonian that Caledonian would be providing advice.
Felt Options should have been aware that Caledonian was involved in the 
arrangement of the transfer out and the subsequent investment.
Thought Options should have asked the questions it put to Caledonian in May 2013, 
which led to the two firms stopping doing business together, at the outset of their 
relationship.
Said Options should have refused the business from Caledonian, given there was 
evidence it was carrying on regulated activities in the UK without the required 
qualifications or authorisation.
Explained that aspects of Caledonians business model and actions ought to have 
given Options cause for concern, such as the volume of business, the level of 
commission and its failure to provide its accounts.
Acknowledged Options wasnt permitted nor required to advise Mr M but said it had a 
responsibility to carry out appropriate due diligence on unregulated introducers. 
Concluded that Options should have refused to accept any introductions from 
Caledonian and said that had Options refused the business, then the transfer to a 
SIPP and the subsequent investment would, more likely than not, not have taken 
place.
Explained that the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) s27 provided a 
further basis on which Mr Ms complaint should be upheld as Caledonian carried on a 
regulated activity in the UK without authorisation, the consumers agreement with 
Options came about as a result of that, and Options knew or should have known this.
Said they believed a Court wouldnt determine it to be just and equitable that the 
agreement should be enforced (FSMA s28) in the circumstances.
The Investigator went on to set out how Options should put things right, by calculating if 
Mr M would have been better off remaining in the AFPS and paying him compensation. They 
also said Options should pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr M accepted the Investigators findings, but Options didnt respond. So, as no agreement 
could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Im therefore upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why below.
Jurisdiction
As I agree with our Investigator that this complaint falls within our jurisdiction, and Options 
didnt give any additional reasons in response to the Investigators opinion, I dont intend to 
deal with this in detail. Options has made similar allegations on many of the complaints 
brought to us against it. And my Ombudsmen colleagues have already addressed the points 
that its made on other cases. 
Our Investigator found that the complaint fell within our jurisdiction, as it had been brought to 
us within three years of when Mr M was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, 
that he had cause to complain about Options.
I too have found that Mr M wasnt aware, and shouldnt reasonably have become aware, that 
he could complain to Options more than three years before he did complain in 2020.
Options asserts that as Mr M signed an acknowledgement of the pension rights he was 
giving up during the transfer, he should have known he could complain in November 2012. 
But at that point I dont think Mr M should have known he may suffer a loss as a result of 
something Options did or omitted to do.
Mr Ms complaint is that Options didnt conduct sufficient due diligence on Caledonian and 
should have prevented his pension transfer. And I cant see that signing a declaration about 
what he was giving up would have highlighted to Mr M that he had incurred a loss for which 
Options might be responsible. I think its unlikely that he would have known enough about 
the regulatory obligations of a SIPP provider to be aware that Options had a responsibility to 
undertake due diligence and to use that to decide whether to accept or reject particular 
investments and/or referrals of business. Without evidence to the contrary, I think its unlikely 
hed reasonably have known about this until the publicity surrounding the unsuccessful 
judicial review challenge in Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd v Financial Ombudsman 
Service [2018] EWHC 2878 (Admin) was in circulation.
Mr M was advised by Caledonian about setting up a SIPP with Options, and in relation to his 
investments. He wasnt advised by Options about setting up the SIPP or the suitability of 
investments. And in my view, there is nothing in the declaration that would indicate to a 
reasonable retail investor in Mr Ms position in 2012 that there was a reason to complain 
about Options.
So, its my finding that Mr M only became aware he might have cause for complaint about 
Options after the 2018 judgement mentioned above. And although he made his complaint 
more than six years after he transferred, he made it within three years of when he knew, or 
should reasonably have known, something was wrong, hed suffered a loss and Options 
might be responsible for it. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that we can consider the merits of Mr Ms complaint.
The merits of Mr Ms complaint
Im required to determine this complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When considering what is fair and 
reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time.
With that in mind, Ill set out what Ive identified as the relevant considerations to deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Relevant considerations
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision. 
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principles 2, 3 and 6 
which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence. 
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems. 
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA), Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA, Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an Ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
Ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The Ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated 
its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 FSMA and the approach an Ombudsman 
is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the 
lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman in that complaint, which I have 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. So, the Principles 
are a relevant consideration here and I will consider them in the specific circumstances of 
this complaint.
The Adams court cases and COBS 2.1.1R
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I note the Supreme Court 
refused Options permission to appeal the Court of Appeal judgment.
Ive considered whether these judgments mean that the Principles should not be taken into 
account in deciding this case. And, Im of the view they do not. In the High Court case, 
HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the 
pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. One of the main reasons why HHJ Dight found that the 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL was not of direct relevance to the case before him was 
because the specific regulatory provisions which the learned judge in Berkeley Burke was 
asked to consider are not those which have formed the basis of the claimants case before 
me.
Likewise, the Principles were not considered by the Court of Appeal. So, the Adams 
judgments say nothing about the application of the FCAs Principles to the Ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.
Although the Court of Appeal ultimately overturned HHJ Dights judgment, it rejected that 
part of Mr Adams appeal that related to HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS claim on the 
basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different to that found 
in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did not so much 
represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS claim, 
but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case would inform the extent of the 
duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at para 148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
The facts in Mr Ms case are very different from those in Adams. There are also significant 
differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams and the issues in 
Mr Ms complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal 
judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual relationship between the 
parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 2.1.1R that happened after 
the contract was entered into. In Mr Ms complaint, Im considering whether Options ought to 
have identified that the introductions from Caledonian involved a risk of consumer detriment 
and, if so, whether it ought to have ceased accepting introductions from Caledonian prior to 
entering into a contract with Mr M.
On this point, I think its also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
both Adams cases. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings 
in Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, Ive proceeded on the understanding Options was not obliged  and not able  
to give advice to Mr M on the suitability of its SIPP or the FPI investment for him personally. 
But Im satisfied Options obligations included deciding whether to accept particular 
investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of business from particular 
businesses. And this is consistent with Options own understanding of its obligations at the 
relevant time. As noted above, the Options Non-Regulated Introducer Profile completed at 
the start of Options relationship with Caledonian began:
As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence 
as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to 
gain some insight into the business they carry out
Sections 27 and 28 FSMAThe Court of Appeal overturned the High Court judgment on the basis of the claim 
pursuant to s27 FSMA.
s27 FSMA provides that an agreement between an authorised person and another party, 
which is otherwise properly made in the course of the authorised persons regulated 
activity, is unenforceable as against that other party if it is made in consequence of 
something said or done by another person (the third party) in the course of a regulated 
activity carried on by the third party in contravention of the general prohibition.
s27(2) provides that the other party is entitled to recover:
(a) any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the 
agreement; and
(b) compensation for any loss sustained by him as a result of having parted with it.
s28(3) FSMA provides that If the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable in 
the circumstances of the case, it may allow
(a) the agreement to be enforced; or
(b) money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained.
The General Prohibition is set out in s19 FSMA. It stipulates that:
No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport to 
do so, unless he is 
a) an authorised person; or
b) an exempt person.
In Adams, the Court of Appeal concluded that the unauthorised introducer of the SIPP had 
carried out activities in contravention of the General Prohibition, and so s27 FSMA applied. 
It further concluded that it would not be just and equitable to nonetheless allow the 
agreement to be enforced (or the money retained) under the discretion afforded to it by 
s28(3) FSMA.
At paragraph 115 of the judgment the Court set out five reasons for reaching this 
conclusion. The first two of these were:
i) A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own 
decisions, there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard 
consumers from their own folly. That much reduces the force of Mr Greens 
contentions that Mr Adams caused his own losses and misled [Options];
ii) While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from 
unregulated sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks 
associated with doing so onto the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of 
being unable to enforce agreements and being required to return money and 
other property and to pay compensation regardless of whether they had had 
knowledge of third parties contraventions of the general prohibition;The other three reasons, in summary, were:
The volume and nature of business being introduced by the introducer was such 
as to put Options on notice of the danger that the introducer was recommending 
clients to invest in the investments and set up Options SIPPs to that end. There 
was thus reason for Options to be concerned about the possibility of the introducer 
advising on investments within the meaning of article 53 of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO).
Options was aware that: contrary to what the introducer had previously said, it 
was receiving high commission from the investment provider, there were 
indications that the introducer was offering consumers cashback and one of 
those running the introducer was subject to a FCA warning notice.
The investment did not proceed until after the time by which Options had reasons 
for concern and so it was open to Options to decline the investment, or at least 
explore the position with Mr Adams, but it did not do so.
I shall address later in this decision how I consider s27 FSMA to be an additional and 
alternative ground upon which this complaint should be upheld. But before that, Ill 
address what I think Options should have concluded from the information it had about 
Caledonian and what this should have meant for Mr Ms proposed pension transfer and 
investment.
Regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter. 
The 2009 thematic review report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are 
obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference 
to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems). 
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their 
adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA stated:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007. 
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a 
SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled 
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear 
on the FCA website listings for unauthorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, 
the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment 
advice given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of 
the SIPP business it administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business 
from nonregulated introducers
In relation to due diligence, the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax 
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firmThe July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter arent formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance should be 
underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are 
an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure its treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect the 
publications, which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing, also goes some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice 
and Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them into account.
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the Ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman.
Like the Ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact that some of the publications 
post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Ms complaint, mean that the examples 
of good practice they provide werent good practice at the time of the relevant events. 
Although the later publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, the 
Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance 
with the Principles. 
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its clear the standards 
themselves hadnt changed.I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case didnt consider the 2012 thematic review, 2013 
SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his consideration 
of Mr Adams claim. But it doesnt follow that those publications are irrelevant to my 
consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im 
required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, 
the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
That doesnt mean that, in considering what is fair and reasonable, Ill only consider Options 
actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions given 
were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter 
notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances.
To be clear, I do not say the Principles or the publications obliged Options to ensure the 
pension transfer was suitable for Mr M. Its accepted Options wasnt required to give advice 
to Mr M, and couldnt give advice. And I accept the publications dont alter the meaning of, or 
the scope of, the Principles. But they are evidence of what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes envisaged by 
the Principles.
What did Options obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Options was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a particular 
introducer is appropriate to deal with.
As noted above, its clear from Options Non-Regulated Introducer Profile, that it 
understood and accepted its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out due 
diligence on Caledonian. 
Im satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, Options 
was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular referrals of business, with the 
Principles in mind. This seems consistent with Options own understanding  as Options 
Compliance Officer noted in their email of 26 April 2013, We have a responsibility to 
proactively monitor our distribution channels to ensure our products do not end up with 
customers for whom it is not suitable. And I note in submissions on other complaints 
Options has told us that adherence to TCF is something it had in mind when considering its 
approach to introducer due diligence i.e. the question of whether it should accept business 
from a particular introducer.
All in all, Im satisfied that, in order to meet the appropriate standards of good industry 
practice and the obligations set by the regulators rules and regulations, Options should have 
carried out due diligence on Caledonian, which was consistent with good industry practice 
and its regulatory obligations at the time. And in my opinion, Options should have used the 
knowledge it gained from its due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a referral of 
business or particular investment.
Summary of my decisionAs set out above, the 2009 thematic review report deals specifically with the relationships 
between SIPP operators and introducers or intermediaries. And it gives non-exhaustive 
examples of good practice. In my view, to meet these standards, and its regulatory 
obligations, set by the Principles, Options ought to have identified a significant risk of 
consumer detriment arising from the business model Caledonian described to it at the 
outset. And so, Options ought to have ensured it thought very carefully about accepting 
applications from Caledonian. 
I acknowledge Options did take some steps  initially and on an ongoing basis  which did 
amount to good practice consistent with its regulatory obligations. But I think, acting fairly 
and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, Options had 
reason at the outset  and certainly by the time of Mr Ms application  to have significant 
concerns about the business Caledonian would be introducing. And it ought to have taken 
the sort of action it took in April and May 2013  which effectively ended its relationship with 
Caledonian  before the relationship with Caledonian began.
Acting fairly and reasonably, Options should have:
Been aware  or at least concluded there was a significant risk  at the outset of its 
relationship with Caledonian, that Caledonian was giving advice on the transfer out of 
consumers existing DB schemes to the SIPP and the investment in the FPI bond.
Been aware that Caledonian was arranging the transfer out of consumers existing 
DB schemes to the SIPP and the investment in the FPI bond too.
Sought clarification on where these activities were taking place.
Concluded Caledonian was, in at least some instances, carrying out regulated 
activities in the UK. 
Further, Options should have recognised, and promptly reacted to, the following risks of 
consumer detriment:
Caledonians staff did not have the qualifications  and therefore expertise  to give 
advice on DB pension transfers.
There was no evidence to show a proper advice process had been followed and 
consumers such as Mr M were therefore unable to make fully informed decisions 
about the transfer to the SIPP and investment in the FPI bond.
The high volume of business being proposed/brought about by Caledonian.
The high level of commission Caledonian was taking.
That Caledonian had failed to provide its company accounts, despite repeated 
requests for copies of them by Options. 
I think these points  individually and cumulatively  should have led Options, acting fairly 
and reasonably, to have concluded at the outset  and certainly by the time it received 
Mr Ms application (November 2012)  that it should not accept business from Caledonian. 
And so, Mr Ms application should not have proceeded. 
It follows that its fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ms complaint.Finally, Im also satisfied that s27 FSMA applies here, as regulated activities were 
undertaken by Caledonian, in breach of the General Prohibition. So, Mr M is entitled to 
recover any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the agreement (i.e. the 
SIPP), as well as compensation for any loss suffered. Im also satisfied that in the 
circumstances a court would not exercise its discretion to allow the agreement to be 
enforced; or money paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained.
This is a further basis on which I consider it to be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
Because Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint on the basis that Options shouldnt have 
accepted his introduction from Caledonian, its not necessary for me to consider whether or 
not Options should have allowed the FPI investment in Mr Ms SIPP. I make no findings 
about the appropriateness of the FPI investment for the Options SIPP which Mr M opened. 
Ive set out my view in more detail below.
What activities did Caledonian undertake and what should Options have concluded?
Advice
I note that Options says it did not at any point become aware that Caledonian were 
providing advice. This is a surprising assertion, given Options recorded in March 2013, 
when assessing Caledonian, under the heading Advice:
No details of how advice given. No regulatory bodies / permissions seen. Although 
suggested on email that advice given in Jordan? 
Advice possibly given in Jordan, although not sure if true for UK based clients 
And so, it seems Options understood at this point that advice was being given. To ask 
questions about how and where advice was being given, the conclusion must first have been 
reached that advice was being given. There is nothing to suggest this was a view it had 
recently reached  rather it seems that it was an existing understanding which was being 
flagged as an issue for the first time.
When further action on this point was eventually taken by Options, a member of its staff said 
on 30 April 2013: No they [Caledonian] don't [give advice], they consult with the client on 
the feasibility of transferring their [occupational pension scheme] into a SIPP.
This seems to be an effort to backtrack on the earlier answers given to the questions in the 
26 April 2013 email, which appear to accept Caledonian was giving advice, although much 
else was unknown. But, to my mind, describing Caledonians role as consulting on the 
feasibility of doing something is simply another way of describing an advisory role. It would 
also have been clear to Options that Caledonians role was not limited to advice on the 
transfer out of the consumers existing scheme  it was declared on the FPI applications that 
Caledonian was giving advice on the bond too, and so any consulting wasnt solely limited 
to the transfer out from the existing scheme. This was clearly not viewed by Options as a 
satisfactory answer to this point in any event as its enquiries continued and, on 10 May 
2013, Options asked Caledonian:
Are you giving advice and if so in what capacity and under what regulatory 
environment are you providing this advice.This shows Options was clearly of the view at this point that, at the very least, Caledonian 
might be giving advice as there is no other basis on which it could have sought clarification 
from Caledonian as to whether advice was being given.
It seems this was a view Options maintained. As set out above, it later noted:
Following a detailed review of the process and documentation concerns were raised 
regarding whether the clients could be deemed to be receiving advice through an 
unregulated entity. 
Following a request for further clarification on these points we have not been able to 
satisfy ourselves that this is not the case.
And it ultimately concluded in May 2013 that all business should come to it through a UK IFA 
with permissions to give pension transfer advice  an unusual step to take if it didnt remain 
of the view there was at least a risk Caledonian was giving advice. 
Although Options has said it took that step as a wider policy decision and not as a response 
to concerns about Caledonian, the evidence it gave about that wider policy decision 
suggested that the wider policy decision was made in 2014, and was based on reviews and 
considerations which mostly took place after May 2013. The decision as it related to 
accepting new business from Caledonian appears to be set out in a document from May 
2013 headed Caledonian Relationship Review 2013.
The above suggests to me that Options knew  or suspected  advice was being given from 
the outset but took a reactive, piecemeal approach to addressing this obvious risk.
Furthermore, from the information available to Options at the very outset of its relationship 
with Caledonian, there was a clear identifiable risk that advice was being given by 
Caledonian. Caledonian said, at the outset, it was:
preferred adviser for the Armed Forces occupational pension scheme
a consultant to these clients and advised them on their armed forces transfers only
currently putting them into an international Friends Provident Bond
And Caledonians sales process was described as:
Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit
Finally, as mentioned, many of the FPI applications Ive seen, including the one relating to 
Mr Ms investment, confirm Caledonian was giving advice (in Jordan  a point Ill turn to 
below) and Options would have been privy to many of these forms from an early stage in its 
relationship with Caledonian.
I note it was recorded that Caledonian advised on the transfer only, but it was also recorded 
that it was selecting the investment vehicle (the FPI bond). And its also very difficult to see 
how advice on a transfer out didnt encompass advice on where to transfer to (i.e. the SIPP) 
 particularly when it was clearly anticipated that all consumers would be transferring to an 
Options SIPP. Its not clear how this could happen without those consumers being advised 
to take this course of action.Furthermore, the Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit process Caledonian describes is a 
typical advice process involving an initial meeting, information gathering and analysis, and a 
further meeting.
Options should also have been aware that its not usual for pension transfers to happen 
without the consumer receiving advice or a recommendation  and very unusual for this to 
happen at a rate of 50 a month, which Caledonian was proposing. Options should have 
concluded that it was simply implausible that such a large volume of consumers were 
deciding to transfer out of their existing schemes, open a SIPP with Options, and make the 
same FPI investments within the SIPP without being advised to do so.
In this case, Mr M told Options directly on at least two occasions that he considered 
Caledonian to be his adviser, yet it seems Options took no action.
I note Options terms of business with Caledonian, signed September 2012 (but, Options 
says, in place since March 2012) said:
The Business Introducer undertakes that they will not provide advice as defined by 
the Act in relation to the SIPP  for the avoidance of doubt this includes reference to 
advice on the selection of The SIPP Operator, contributions, transfer of benefits, 
taking benefits and HMRC rules;
I also note the SIPP application form, which was signed and dated by Mr M, said:
This Form should be used if you are a client establishing a SIPP without advice. You 
have made this decision independently and are aware of the implications of this 
decision. 
And:
As you do not have a Financial Adviser, your investment choices are your sole 
responsibility. You will instruct us and we will act on those instructions as long as it is 
an accepted investment in the [Options] Pension Scheme.
But the member declaration, signed by Mr M, included the following:
I confirm that I have received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian 
International and following this advice I wish to proceed with the transfer.
So, I dont think the application documents gave Options any basis to conclude advice hadnt 
been given  particularly given what I say above. They present a confused, inconsistent, 
picture. And where the documents expressly said that Mr M hadnt been advised, they said 
in most instances that Options hadnt advised Mr M, rather than Caledonian hadnt advised 
him.
Taking account of the available evidence, I consider that, in this case, Caledonian did 
provide advice to Mr M on the merits of transferring his pension to the SIPP and investing in 
the FPI bond. Mr M has said he had no interest in transferring his pension or investing prior 
to speaking with Caledonian and it told him he would have a much better pension if he 
transferred. It appears more likely than not that Caledonian proactively suggested to Mr M 
he transfer his DB occupational pension and make the investment. Mr M had limited 
investment experience and transferred to the same SIPP, and same investment as many 
other consumers who Caledonian introduced. I dont think Mr M would have transferred his pension to a SIPP or invested it in FPI of his own volition or without a positive 
recommendation from Caledonian.
Indeed, the paperwork Ive seen supports that Mr M was given advice. The evidence is that 
the Caledonian representative presented themselves as an adviser to Mr M. As Ive 
highlighted above, the Caledonian representatives signature was entered in the space for 
adviser name on the member declaration accompanying the SIPP application form. 
Caledonian also selected the investment  the investment details were typed/prepopulated 
on the SIPP application form for Mr Ms signature.
Also, as Ive noted in the background above, an Armed Forces Pension Scheme Analysis 
was prepared by Caledonian for Mr M in October 2012 which compared the current benefits 
of the AFPS with the benefits of transferring it. Although the disclaimer on the front of the 
document claimed the content wasnt advice, I dont think thats conclusive. I think its more 
likely than not that the Caledonian representative used this document in their meetings with 
Mr M, to support a recommendation that he should transfer out.
So, Im satisfied advice was given to Mr M by Caledonian in this case, and that, from the 
outset of its relationship with Caledonian, Options was (or at the very least ought to have 
been) aware, generally, that Caledonian was offering advice to consumers, or there was a 
significant risk it might be doing so.
Arranging
Its also clear from what Options was told by Caledonian at the outset  and from the 
available evidence in this complaint and others  that Caledonian was heavily involved in the 
arrangement of the transfer out of Mr Ms existing pension scheme to the SIPP and the 
investment of the cash transferred to the SIPP in the FPI bond. It clearly wasnt simply 
introducing Mr M to Options and leaving it to him to proceed with the application. It was 
involved in the setting up of the SIPP and in arranging the FPI bond and associated 
investments. It was commonly involved in gathering all the information and documents 
needed for things to proceed and it sent all the required information, forms, documents etc. 
to all the parties involved, and dealt with any queries arising from these.
I think Options ought to have been aware of this. The extent of Caledonians involvement 
was clear from the application documentation Caledonian sent to Options, and its 
involvement in other applications of the same nature.
Where were the activities taking place?
I havent seen any evidence that, prior to May 2013, Options established where Caledonian 
was carrying out its activities in relation to each application  including Mr Ms.
As set out above, Caledonian told Options at the outset that They [the consumers] were 
generally still resident in UK but some were now living abroad in various countries such as 
Thailand, Germany, Spain etc. It was also recorded that Caledonian had branches in Chile, 
Peru, Columbia, Argentina, Brazil and Switzerland. And, as Options later noted, Caledonian 
also used a UK address.
Caledonian also told Options at the outset:
Majority of business carried out in unregulated jurisdictions but where regulations 
apply we are licensed to carry out our activities.And, as mentioned, the sales process adopted by Caledonian was set out as Referral  
Visit  Analysis  Visit. So, it was clear Caledonian was meeting consumers in person.
Furthermore, the Certificate of Non-Solicitation signed by Caledonian for FPI  to which 
Options was privy  said in each instance (as far as Im aware) The advice was given in 
Jordan.
Caledonian therefore gave what appears to be conflicting information. But Options ought to 
have been aware, from what was said by Caledonian, that it was possible Caledonian might 
be dealing with a UK resident consumer in the UK, or dealing with a consumer in any one of 
a number of different countries, all of which might have different financial services regulatory 
regimes (or no such regime).
Its fair to say the picture was far from clear  and Options should have been aware it was 
unlikely all of the information provided by Caledonian could be correct. Its not, for example, 
clear how the advice in every instance could have been given in Jordan when, by 
Caledonians own account, it had a number of offices around the world (none of which were 
in Jordan), was dealing with consumers who were generally still resident in UK or living 
abroad in various countries and said elsewhere that it was carrying out business in various 
jurisdictions.
Options didnt, however, check any of this at the outset. It was therefore in no position to 
know what, if any, regulatory regimes applied, and whether Caledonian required any 
authorisations to conduct the activities it did. Caledonian itself appears to have suggested it 
needed licences in some jurisdictions, but Ive seen no evidence of it having given details 
of any such licences.
I think Options should have been particularly concerned  given that, as mentioned, 
Caledonian told Options the consumers it dealt with were generally still resident in UK  
about whether advice was being given (or any other regulated activity carried on) in the UK, 
as Caledonian wasnt authorised by the FSA nor, later, the FCA. There was reason, as Ive 
explained, to think Caledonian might be breaching the General Prohibition against persons 
carrying on a regulated activity in the UK without authorisation. Despite this, Ive seen no 
evidence to show Options identified this risk until March 2013 when, as set out above, it was 
noted:
No details of how advice given. No regulatory bodies / permissions seen. Although 
suggested on email that advice given in Jordan?
Advice possibly given in Jordan, although not sure if true for UK based clients
Then no further action appears to have been taken until 26 April 2013 when, in a further 
internal email exchange at Options, the following questions were asked, and answers were 
received on 30 April 2013 (the below, in bold, are the first set of answers provided on this 
date):
Do they have a business address in the UK? They confirm that they do not have 
a permanent place of business in the UK, however they have a business 
address for correspondence and [Mr C] is based in the UK.
Where do they meet with clients, i.e. in the UK? Unknown.
What is Caledonian's regulatory status, i.e. are they regulated in their home 
jurisdiction? [Mr C] - The Chartered Insurance Institute  ID Number XXXXX. [Mr C] certifies all ID and signs the investment Application Form.
Are they regulated to provide advice in their home jurisdiction? Unknown
They have confirmed that they provide advice in Jordan. How does this work? Do 
they have a place of business in Jordan? Do they need to be regulated in Jordan to 
provide advice? Unknown - Caledonian provide a Non Solicitation Letter which 
is sent to Friends Provident with the investment App. A copy of a Non 
Solicitation Letter is attached
Despite the uncertainty it wasnt until 10 May 2013, when Options finally challenged 
Caledonian on this point (amongst others):
Can you provide your organisational structure and the jurisdiction in which each is 
registered and the regulation/regulator that each company operates within. If you are 
relying on any exemptions please state which exemptions and the reasons you 
believe you can operate within those exemptions
What offices do you have and where, do the jurisdictions in which you have offices 
have a regulatory regime, if so can you provide details of the regulators in those 
jurisdictions.
Do you meet all your clients in Jordan, if not why do your Non Solicitation forms 
signed by yourself confirm the advice was given in Jordan
On the Non Solicitation letters you note that Caledonian does not have a permanent 
place of business in the UK. However, you request correspondence to be sent to The 
Pensions Service Centre, [UK City]. Please can you clarify Caledonian's presence in 
the UK and the nature of the office in [UK City].
Given what I say above, acting fairly and reasonably, Options should have made these 
enquiries at the outset. And as set out in the background, these enquiries (along with the 
other points of query put to Caledonian and then discussed with it) led to Options quickly 
concluding it shouldnt accept further applications from Caledonian unless they came 
through a UK IFA with permissions to give pension transfer advice  a restriction which it 
seems had the effect of no further business being introduced by Caledonian. I think its fair to 
say that Options would have reached the same conclusion had it taken this action at the 
outset of its relationship with Caledonian. And it certainly should have done so, to act fairly 
and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and standards of good practice.
In this case, Im satisfied Caledonian carried out regulated activities in the UK, as Mr Ms 
address was in the UK when he applied for his SIPP. Had Options sought clarification from 
Mr M, which would have been a reasonable course of action in the circumstances, I think 
Mr M would likely have confirmed hed met with Caledonian in the UK. And, for all the 
reasons I have mentioned, Options should have concluded it was possible Caledonian was 
carrying out activities in the UK long before it received Mr Ms application, in any event. If 
Options had reached that conclusion, as I believe it should have, through taking appropriate 
steps at the start of its relationship with Caledonian, then Options should have declined to 
enter into a relationship with Caledonian at all or at least ended its relationship with 
Caledonian before accepting Mr Ms application. I think this was the only fair and reasonable 
step it could take in the circumstances.
Regulated activities in the UKUnder Article 53 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) 
the following are regulated activities:
Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in 
his capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or 
agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment 
which is a security or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, 
subscribe for or underwrite such an investment.
Under Article 25 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) 
the following are regulated activities:
(1) Making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to 
buy, sell, subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is
(a) a security,
(b) a relevant investment, or
(c) an investment of the kind specified by article 86, or article 89 so far as 
relevant to that article, is a specified kind of activity.
(2) Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the 
arrangements buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments 
falling within paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) (whether as principal or agent) is also 
a specified kind of activity.
There is an exclusion under Article 26 of arrangements which do not or would not bring 
about the transaction to which the arrangements relate.
Rights under a personal pension scheme are a security.
The investments made within the FPI bond  which Caledonian itself described as 
regulated  were also securities or relevant investments.
Finally, the FPI bond was a contract of insurance, and rights under a contract of insurance 
are also a relevant investment.
As set out above, Im satisfied Caledonian gave advice and made arrangements. The 
activities it undertook clearly meet the above definitions. The arrangements it made brought 
about the transactions (the transfer out of Mr Ms existing pension into the SIPP, the opening 
of the FPI bond within the SIPP and the making of investments within that bond). The 
arrangements had that direct effect. And advice was given on the merits of transferring out of 
Mr Ms existing scheme to the SIPP in order to invest in the FPI bond  Mr M was persuaded 
he would receive a better pension as a result.So, Im satisfied the activities undertaken by Caledonian in the UK in this case were 
regulated activities. Caledonian therefore carried out regulated activities without 
authorisation.
These points about the activities Caledonian was undertaking, where it was undertaking 
them, and its authorisation to undertake them, are ones Options should have considered 
individually and cumulatively. And to be clear, I think the fact Caledonian was carrying out 
regulated activities without authorisation was enough reason, in itself, for Options to have 
concluded, that it should not accept applications from Caledonian.
This was a significant red flag. The fact Caledonian was carrying out regulated activities 
without authorisation calls into question its integrity, motivation and competency. I think the 
only fair and reasonable conclusion Options could reach in these circumstances was that it 
should not accept business from Caledonian. And I think this alone is sufficient reason to 
conclude its fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ms complaint. But I have nonetheless gone 
on to consider the further risks of consumer detriment Ive summarised above.
Caledonians expertise
Caledonians proposed business model, as documented at Options first meeting with its 
representative, involved former members of the Armed Forces who, it said, worked in 
security related jobs in dangerous areas. The business model wasnt one involving, say, 
former financial advisers or other finance professionals.
There was therefore no reason to think that the typical client Caledonian was proposing to 
introduce to Options had a good level of understanding of pensions or was in a position to 
work out for themselves if a pension transfer was in their best interests. They would be 
reliant on Caledonians advice.
The introductions involved transfers out of a DB pension scheme into a UK SIPP to invest in 
a range of funds within an FPI bond. The transfers of defined benefit (final salary) pensions 
are usually not in the customers best interests, are complex and present a variety of 
consequences and matters which the ordinary individual would be hard-pressed to 
understand without professional financial advice. Those giving such advice in the UK are 
required by the FCA to pass specialist exams, reflecting the risks and complexities involved. 
Options, as a provider of SIPPs, would or ought to have been aware of this.
Not only did Caledonians advisers not have the qualifications required by the FCA (or FSA 
as it then was) to give advice on pension transfers, there is no evidence they had any 
relevant qualifications. The only qualification of any kind which is mentioned is that Mr C of 
Caledonian was a qualified accountant.
Ive seen no evidence to show Options noted this obvious risk until March 2013 when it 
reviewed its relationship with Caledonian and Professional Qualification was then assessed 
as high risk. The reason for this assessment was No qualifications documented other than 
meeting note from March 2012 where [Mr C] stated he was a qualified accountant and 
member of Chartered Institute of Accountants.
And, despite this high risk flag, Ive seen no evidence Options took any action until 26 April 
2013 when it was asked How did we establish Caledonians knowledge of SIPPs and UK 
pension rules? The answer to this was initially recorded on 30 April as unknown. The later 
answer on 30 April was, By meeting with them twice and by running a workshop for them 
output from which is attached. But I dont think this is enough to show Options had 
sufficiently addressed this risk  it does nothing to show Caledonian's staff had adequate professional qualifications.
Indeed, this (along with the other points of query raised at the time) was a point which led to 
Options quickly concluding it shouldnt accept further applications from Caledonian unless 
they came through a UK IFA with permissions to give pension transfer advice  a restriction 
which had the effect of no further business being introduced by Caledonian. And I think its 
fair to say Options would have reached the same conclusion had it taken this action at the 
outset of its relationship with Caledonian. And it certainly should have done so to meet its 
regulatory obligations and standards of good practice.
The transfer process
As mentioned above, a DB transfer is a complex transaction. It involves many risks, and 
potentially the loss of significant guaranteed benefits. For this reason, advice on such 
transactions is tightly regulated in the UK and there are standards of good practice that 
those giving the advice are expected to follow. This means several steps need to be taken 
as part of the advice process and documentation such as fact-finds, suitability reports, 
TVAS, and illustrations generally feature in the advice process. The purpose is to ensure any 
advice given takes into account all relevant factors, is suitable, and the recipient of the 
advice is in a fully informed position, where they understand the benefits they are giving up 
and the risks associated with the transfer.
Ive seen no evidence to show Caledonian followed such a process. In my opinion it would 
have been fair and reasonable for Options to have identified this as a clear risk of consumer 
detriment  particularly given that Caledonians starting point appears to have been that the 
consumers it dealt with would be transferring out of the DB scheme (i.e. it seems to have 
taken the view a transfer was suitable for all).
Had Options taken steps to ascertain if a reasonable process was in place, it would have 
become aware no such process was in place, and consumers therefore werent fully 
informed before agreeing to make the transfer to the SIPP and the associated FPI bond.
Options reference to illustrations in the list of questions in the 26 April 2013 email, and 
the initial answers to those questions, appears to be an acknowledgement of this risk:
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to 
clients, do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? 
Yes due to illustrations
Again, this (along with the other points of query raised at the time) appears to be a point 
which led to Options quickly concluding it should not accept further applications from 
Caledonian unless they came through a UK IFA with permissions to give pension transfer 
advice  a restriction which had the effect of no further business being introduced by 
Caledonian. And I think its fair to say Options would have reached the same conclusion had 
it taken this action at the outset of its relationship with Caledonian. And it certainly should 
have done so, on a fair and reasonable basis to meet its regulatory obligations and 
standards of good practice.
Volume of business
At the outset of the relationship between Options and Caledonian, Options was told that 
Caledonian would be introducing about 50 applications a month (and I note a similar volume 
was introduced once the relationship began).I think on a fair and reasonable basis, Options should have been concerned that Caledonian 
intended to (and did) make such a high volume of introductions, relating only to occupational 
pension schemes. In my view, this was a further reason for Options to conclude there was a 
significant risk of consumer detriment  particularly when considered alongside the other 
points Ive set out.
Firstly, its not clear how Caledonian would be, or was, bringing about such a high volume of 
applications without giving advice. It was simply implausible it could bring about this number 
of applications without influencing consumers actions through a positive recommendation.
Options also ought to have considered Caledonians competence to deal with this volume of 
transfers  there is no evidence to show it had the significant resources this would require. 
Further, Options should have been aware of the very low likelihood the transfers would all be 
suitable. At the outset of Options relationship with Caledonian (and the time of Mr Ms 
application) COBS 19.1.6 G said:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should 
start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable (my emphasis). A 
firm should only then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence that the transfer or opt out is in the clients 
best interests.
I accept this aims to define the expectation of a regulated financial adviser when determining 
suitability of a pension transfer, but Id expect Options, as a pensions provider, to have been 
aware of this and to have taken account of it.
Finally, Options had cause to question the motivations of Caledonian, given it was bringing 
about such a high volume of applications. There was a clear risk that Caledonian was putting 
its own interests above those of Mr M.
Commission
I also think the level of commission that was being paid to Caledonian should have given 
Options cause for concern.
It appears Caledonian was typically taking around 7% of the transfer amount in commission, 
and Options was told this was the case at the outset of its relationship. There is no evidence 
to show Caledonian carried out any of the usual work associated with a DB transfer that 
would justify such a fee. Nor have I seen any other evidence to show there was any 
justification for such a high level of commission in the circumstances. I think this level of 
commission ought to have been another cause for Options to be concerned that Caledonian 
was putting its own interests ahead of the interests of consumers, including Mr M. And, of 
course, it was further reason to consider Caledonian might be giving advice, as commission 
at this level would have been very likely to motivate it to encourage consumers to proceed, 
through a positive recommendation.
Overall, when considered alongside the high volumes of near identical introductions of 
business being made by Caledonian, I think this level of commission raises questions about 
the motives and role of Caledonian.
Caledonians accounts
I note that Options made repeated requests for Caledonian's accounts. It sent several emails to Caledonian between March and August 2012. Options also explained in its email of 
23 March 2012 that in order to comply with its own compliance procedures this was needed.
Nevertheless, on 27 April 2012 Options started accepting introductions from Caledonian 
having not received the accounts  seemingly in breach of its own procedures. Acting fairly 
and reasonably, Options should have met its own standards and should have checked 
Caledonians accounts at the outset before accepting any business from it. And, based on 
Caledonians conduct, it seems very unlikely accounts would ever have been forthcoming.
Caledonians reluctance to provide basic information should also have been a further factor 
which ought to have led Options to question whether it should enter into or continue a 
relationship with Caledonian. This again calls into question the competence and motivations 
of Caledonian and it also calls into question the ability of Caledonian to organise its affairs. It 
also meant Options was missing information which might be critical to the decision as to 
whether to enter into business with Caledonian.
Its notable that Options accepted and set up Mr Ms SIPP when it was still waiting for this 
information from Caledonian.
In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances its fair and reasonable to conclude that Options ought reasonably to have 
decided, had it complied with its regulatory obligations which required it to conduct sufficient 
due diligence on Caledonian and draw fair and reasonable conclusions from what it 
discovered, that it shouldnt accept business from Caledonian, including Mr Ms application. I 
therefore conclude that its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say that Options 
shouldnt have accepted Mr Ms application from Caledonian.
Did Options act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Ms instructions?
In my view, for the reasons given, Options simply should have refused to accept Mr Ms 
application. So, things shouldnt have got beyond that. However, for completeness, Ive 
considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Options to proceed with Mr Ms 
application.
I acknowledge Mr M signed Options member declaration when applying for his SIPP. I note 
this document does give warnings about the loss of benefits that would result in the transfer 
to the SIPP. And the indemnities sought to confirm that Mr M would not hold Options 
responsible for any losses resulting from the investments. However, I dont think this 
document demonstrates Options acted fairly and reasonably by proceeding with Mr Ms 
instructions.
Asking Mr M to sign a declaration absolving Options of all its responsibilities when it ought to 
have known that Mr Ms dealings with Caledonian were putting him at significant risk was not 
the fair and reasonable thing to do. I also note that the declaration was based on Mr M 
having received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian International where, for the 
reasons I have given, Options ought to have been aware Caledonian didnt have the 
competency to give such advice and there were questions about its motivations and 
integrity.
Asking Mr M to sign declarations wasnt an effective way for Options to meet its regulatory 
obligations, given the concerns Options ought to have identified about his introduction. So, it 
wasnt fair and reasonable to proceed, on the basis of these. I make this point only for completeness  the primary point is Mr M should simply not have been able to proceed, as 
his application should simply not have been accepted.
Furthermore, as set out above (and I detail below), I am satisfied s27 FSMA offers a further 
and alternative basis on which it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr Ms complaint 
should be upheld.
s27 and s28 FSMA
Ive set out the key sections of s27 and s28 above and have considered them carefully and 
in their entirety. In my view, I need to apply a four-stage test to determine whether s27 
applies and whether a court would exercise its discretion under s28, as follows:
1. Whether an unauthorised third-party was involved;
2. Whether there is evidence that the third-party acted in breach of the General 
Prohibition in relation to the particular transaction and, if so;
3. Whether the customer entered into an agreement with an authorised firm in 
consequence of something said or done by the unauthorised third-party in the course 
of its actions that contravened the General Prohibition; and
4. Whether it is just and equitable for the agreement between the customer and the 
authorised firm to be enforced in any event.
Test 1 is clearly satisfied here  Caledonian was an unauthorised third party. Test 2 is also 
satisfied  for the reasons I have set out above, Im satisfied Caledonian carried out activities 
in breach of the General Prohibition  and any one regulated activity is sufficient for these 
purposes so this test would be met if Caledonian had only undertaken arranging (which, for 
the reasons I have set out, I do not think is the case). Test 3 is satisfied too  the SIPP was 
opened in consequence of the advice given, and arrangements made, by Caledonian. That 
brings me to the final test, 4.
Having carefully considered this, Im satisfied a court would not conclude its just and 
equitable for the agreement between Mr M and Options to be enforced in any event. I think 
very similar reasons to those mentioned by the Court of Appeal in the Adams case apply 
here:
A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own 
decisions, there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers 
from their own folly.
While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated 
sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so 
onto the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce 
agreements and being required to return money and other property and to pay 
compensation regardless of whether they had had knowledge of third parties 
contraventions of the General Prohibition.
For all the reasons set out above, Options should have concluded Caledonian was 
giving advice or have suspected it was (and it seems it did belatedly draw this 
conclusion); and giving advice to consumers who were not necessarily financially 
sophisticated.As set out above, Options was aware, or ought to have been aware that:
oCaledonians staff didnt have the qualifications  and therefore expertise  to 
give advice on DB pension transfers.
oThere was no evidence to show a proper advice process had been followed and 
consumers such as Mr M were therefore unable to make a fully informed decision 
about the transfer to the SIPP and investment.
oThe high volume of business being proposed/brought about by Caledonian.
oThe high level of commission Caledonian was taking, which may not have been 
disclosed.
oThat Caledonian had failed to provide its company accounts, despite repeated 
requests for copies of them by Options.
The investment didnt proceed until long after all these things were known to Options 
and so it was open to it to decline the investment, or at least explore the position with 
the consumer.
Ive therefore gone on to consider the question of fair compensation.
Fair compensation
I note Options has said that its evident consumers such as Mr M wished to transfer their 
pensions, whether through Options or another provider and would therefore have suffered 
the same losses as they did even if it had rejected their applications.
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr M would have proceeded even if Options had rejected 
his application. He was contacted by Caledonian  which was consistent with its business 
model of contacting ex-service personnel and encouraging them to consider transferring out 
of their pensions. And on meeting with Caledonian, he was encouraged to transfer out of his 
existing pension on the understanding that Caledonian would improve this. Mr M has told us 
he had no interest in transferring his pension or investing prior to speaking with 
Caledonian, and Ive found no reason to doubt that.
Ive not, in any event, seen any evidence that any other SIPP operator dealt with 
Caledonian. And any operator acting fairly and reasonably should have reached the 
conclusion it shouldnt deal with Caledonian. I dont think it would be fair to say Mr M 
shouldnt be compensated based on speculation that another SIPP operator might have 
made the same mistakes as Options.
For similar reasons, Im not persuaded Mr M shouldnt be compensated by Options, or his 
compensation should be reduced, because Ive not made the finding that the FPI bond 
investment, in itself, wasnt something Options should have accepted. Or because the 
benefits from Mr Ms existing pension were lost once the transfer request was made. If 
Options had acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice, the application wouldnt have proceeded at all. So, no transfer request or FPI bond 
investment would have been made.
So, Im satisfied that Options failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry 
best practice at the relevant time have led to Mr M suffering a significant loss to his pension. 
And my aim is therefore to return Mr M to the position he would likely now be in but for Options failings.
When considering this Ive taken into account the Court of Appeals supplementary judgment 
in Adams ([2021] EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgment deals with 
restitution/compensation. But ultimately, its for me to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr M, as far as is possible, to the position he would now be in but for 
what I consider to be Options failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before 
accepting his SIPP application. I appreciate that Options might not think Mr M has suffered a 
loss. But it cant know that until the requisite calculations have taken place. And I doubt very 
much that the benefits Mr M will get from the SIPP are equivalent to what he would have got 
from his occupational pension.
In light of the above, I require Options to calculate fair compensation by comparing the 
current position to the position Mr M would be in if he hadnt transferred from his existing 
pension.
In summary, Options should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr M has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Pay compensation for the loss to Mr M.
3. Pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its failure to act fairly 
and reasonably.
As my understanding is that Mr M disinvested and transferred his pension to another 
provider in 2019, I wont be providing in the redress for the purchase of illiquid assets or 
ongoing SIPP fees. However, if Im wrong about that and Mr Ms SIPP remains open, then 
our usual redress provisions regarding illiquid investments and the waiver of SIPP fees 
should be deemed incorporated in this decision.
Ill explain how Options should carry out the calculation set out in 1 and 2 above in further 
detail as well as explaining my reasons for awarding 3:
(1) Calculate the loss Mr M has suffered as a result of making the transfer (the loss 
calculation)
I consider Mr M would have remained in his existing occupational pension if Options hadnt 
accepted his application. Options must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in 
Policy Statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, the 
calculation should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of this final decision.
(2) Pay compensation to Mr M for loss he has suffered calculated in (1)If the redress calculation in (1) demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in DISP App 4, Options must:
always calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Options offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid directly to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of 
benefits that would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, 
Options may make a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. Mr Ms income tax rate in retirement is presumed to be 20%. However, if Mr M 
would have been able to take 25% tax-free cash from the benefits the cash payment 
represents, then this notional reduction may only be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall notional deduction of 15%. 
(3) Pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by Options failure to act 
fairly and reasonably
Mr M transferred his pension away from a valuable DB pension to a SIPP and had to suffer 
the loss of those benefits.
I think its fair to say this would have caused Mr M some distress and inconvenience. He will 
clearly have been worried that his retirement provision will have been reduced. So, I 
consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate for that upset.
Assignment of rights
If Options believes other parties to be wholly or partly responsible for the loss, its free to 
pursue those other parties. So, compensation payable to Mr M can be contingent on the 
assignment by him to Options of any rights of action he may have against other parties in 
relation to his transfer to the SIPP and the investments. The assignment should be given in 
terms that ensure any amount recovered by Options up to the balance due to Mr M is paid to 
him. Options should only benefit from the assignment once Mr M has been fully 
compensated for his loss (to be clear, this includes any loss thats in excess of our award 
limit). Options should cover the reasonable cost of drawing up, and Mr Ms taking advice on 
and approving, any assignment required.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that 
fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
Until the above calculation is carried out, I dont know what award it might produce. So, while 
I acknowledge that the value of Mr Ms original investment fell well within our award limit, 
and the compensation may be nowhere near £160,000, for completeness I have included 
information below about what ought to happen if fair compensation amounts to more than 
our award limit.
Determination and money award: I uphold the complaint. Its my final decision that I 
require Options to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Options pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Options. My recommendation is 
not binding on Options. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP must calculate and pay Mr M the award set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Alex Salton
Ombudsman