DRN-3478157
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Z has complained that they are unhappy with Shawbrook Bank Limiteds offer of 
settlement for their claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Z bought solar panels for their home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a 15-
year loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of 
the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr and Mrs Z into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
The loan was interest free for the first 12 months, during which time Mr and Mrs Z paid off 
the loan. They say it was always their intention to do that. And that they bought the solar 
panels on the basis that it would pay for itself within 9 years, as that was what they were told 
at the time of sale. 
Shawbrook made an offer of settlement, which was to pay Mr and Mrs Z £2,000. Shawbrook 
said that it had calculated the benefit of the solar panels over the 15-year loan term. That its 
offer aimed to ensure that Mr and Mrs Z wouldnt pay more than that for the solar panels. 
And, having calculated what refund they would be due, including interest on any 
overpayments theyd made relative to what they wouldve paid if the loan matched the 
benefit, it said the refund would be less than £2,000. So, Shawbrook thought that offering 
£2,000 was fair.
Mr and Mrs Zs representative said the calculations Shawbrook had used were not 
reasonable. It had used the estimated annual generation figure of 2,832 kWh from the MCS 
certificate to calculate the benefit of the solar panels. But the actual generation was much 
lower than this. FIT statements and the actual meter readings show the solar panels have 
actually generated:
 Year one (04/11/2015 to 07/11/2016) 1,999 kWh
 Year two (07/11/2016 to 04/11/2017) 1,967 kWh
 Year three (04/11/2017 to 04/11/2018) 2,067 kWh
Mr and Mrs Z say that Shawbrook has inspected the solar panels and found there is no fault 
with them  they are just generating less than estimated. This suggests that the original 
estimate was wrong. So, Mr and Mrs Z said that Shawbrook should use the actual 
generation figures to calculate the benefit of the solar panels, as they dont generate as 
much as shown on the MCS certificate. 
Mr and Mrs Z also said that the period over which the benefit should be calculated ought to 
be on 9 years  given what they were told at the point of sale and that they never intended to 
let the loan run beyond the 12-month interest-free period. 
Despite the input of one of our adjudicators, an agreement couldnt be reached. So, Ive 
been asked to make a decision. I issued a provisional decision saying that I planned to 
uphold the complaint and setting out what Shawbrook should do to put things right. 
Mr and Mrs Z said they were happy to accept my provisional decision. Shawbrook did not 
respond within the given deadline. So, with nothing further for me to consider, this decision is 
in line with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Shawbrook has made an offer of settlement  in effect accepting that there was a 
misrepresentation on the part of the supplier which induced Mr and Mrs Z to buy the solar 
panels. So, I only need to decide what should be done to put things right. 
Ive decided that the offer made by Shawbrook is not fair and reasonable, so I uphold this 
complaint. This is because:
Mr and Mrs Z never intended to let the loan run its full 15-year term. 
Their expectation was that the solar panels would pay for themselves within 9 years, 
since this is what they were told at the point of sale (as shown on the contract). 
I expect Shawbrook to use actual electricity generation figures in its calculations 
where these are available and to extrapolate from there for future dates  especially 
where the solar panels have underperformed against the original estimate. Otherwise 
the calculations would knowingly overstate the benefits to the detriment of the 
customer. 
So, I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Mr and Mrs Z fairly and they lost out because of what 
Shawbrook did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Zs 
complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the 
known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs Z from the solar panels over a nine-
year period so they pay no more than that, and they keep the solar panel system, and any 
future benefits once the loan has ended. 
Shawbrook should use the following actual generation figures to calculate the benefit:
1,999 kWh for year one.
1,967 kWh for year two. 
2,067 kWh for year three.
Shawbrook should extrapolate from there for the later years, not use the figure from the 
MCS certificate. 
Because the calculation will show that Mr and Mrs Z have paid more than they should have, 
then Shawbrook needs to reimburse them accordingly. I require Shawbrook to restructure Mr and Mrs Zs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put 
Mr and Mrs Z in a position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over a nine-year 
period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Because Mr and Mrs Z have settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay them the difference 
between what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure 
above, with 8% interest for the time theyve been without that money.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available to Shawbrook and that it ought to 
be aware of our approach to calculating redress, so it should have done this in the first 
instance. So, I direct that Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by it not doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Zs complaint. Shawbrook Bank 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman