DRN-2015204
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that his pending transactions on his John Lewis Financial Services Limited 
credit card showed the wrong amount. And he raised a number of points about the customer 
service and reliability of John Lewis.
What happened
This complaint has been brought by Mr and Mrs G together. Mr G is the primary cardholder, 
and Mrs G also holds a credit card on this account. Ill refer to them both throughout. But 
credit card accounts are only held in one name, and Mr G is the customer. So this complaint 
will be recorded in his name.
Mr and Mrs G told us they are very careful with their credit card. They regularly log on to 
online banking, and check the transactions which show there against their paper receipts for 
transactions. They said they can usually easily work out which transactions are included in 
the pending total, and arent itemised, because the total of any receipts not otherwise 
accounted for should just add up to the pending total. This had always matched, but at the 
start of July 2019 they noticed that their pending transactions were overstated by £2.
Mr and Mrs G didnt know why this was happening. They said they have sometimes seen 
pre-authorisation transactions, of up to £1, but there was no possibility of that at the time. 
And this could have nothing to do with an earlier credit of £2 either. So there was no 
explanation.
Mr and Mrs G said the next day the discrepancy of £2 remained. They contacted John 
Lewis. They were fearful of fraud. But John Lewis didnt reply. They wrote again over a 
month later to chase up a response, and still got no reply. There was still no reply, so they 
chased this again a few days later. They did then receive a reply, but were told the issue 
was being investigated. They said at one point they were forced to entirely resubmit their 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs G have also mentioned a number of other issues, which they said increased 
their levels of concern. They said John Lewis couldnt explain why their secure message 
showed one unread, when there were no unread messages. They also said they were 
concerned about system errors, as John Lewis had previously said that the primary 
cardholders transactions should show first on the statement, but that didnt happen with 
their statements. They said John Lewis confirmed this was a system problem, and wrong. 
Mr and Mrs G said they have received a number of pieces of correspondence, but nothing 
which explained what had happened to cause the discrepancy with their pending 
transactions. They asked for a senior manager review, but didnt get it. They said the tone of 
communications from John Lewis was dismissive. So some three months later they referred 
the issue to our service.
John Lewis said it couldnt tell Mr and Mrs G what had gone wrong, because it was no 
longer able to see the pending transactions from early July. It said the difference might be 
because of a pre-authorisation a retailer had placed on their account, just to make sure that 
their card was working. That wouldnt be added onto their balance. John Lewis said if they 
saw any transactions on their statement that they didnt recognise, they should call its 
security department. And it offered £50 to say sorry.
Mr and Mrs G were concerned that John Lewis couldnt tell them what had happened, and 
expressed concerns about whether its systems were robust. John Lewis replied to say it 
wasnt aware of any systematic errors regarding statements, transactions or pending 
transactions. But it just didnt hold data on any pending transactions which werent applied 
to statements for more than seven days. It said that the additional cardholders details were 
showing first on Mr and Mrs Gs statements because, unusually, the additional cardholders 
card number was lower than the primary cardholder. John Lewis could change this if they 
would like by blocking (then presumably reissuing) the additional cardholders card. John 
Lewis also said it had experienced some problems with the online service after a recent 
upgrade, but it was working hard to put fixes to those problems in place.
John Lewis has since said to our service that it was making some changes to systems 
which meant that it didnt receive Mr and Mrs Gs first message about the account 
discrepancy. It said its offer of £50 was still open to Mr and Mrs G.
Our investigator said that John Lewis hadnt responded straight away to Mr and Mrs Gs 
message, and by the time it did, it wasnt able to tell what the reason for the discrepancy 
was. It had told Mr and Mrs G what it thought had happened.
Our investigator said Mr and Mrs G had now been charged the right amounts. She knew 
that they hadnt received the service they wanted from John Lewis, but she thought that a 
payment of £50 from John Lewis to make up for that was fair.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. They didnt think that all of the aspects of their complaint had 
been considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr and Mrs G said our service hadnt covered all the elements of their complaint. 
They have raised a number of concerns about how our service has handled their 
case. For clarity, its not my remit to look at those concerns here. I can only look at 
the complaint they have made.
I think their complaint has a number of points. The key issue was that their online 
banking showed a discrepancy of £2 between transactions that were pending, 
and the transactions they could account for. We dont have screenshots to show 
this happened, but Ive no reason to disbelieve what Mr and Mrs G say about this.
John Lewis has said it isnt able to see why this happened now, because 
pending transactions only stay on an account for seven days, if the 
transaction isnt ultimately confirmed. Mr and Mrs G might like to know that 
this is common to many banks.
I think its most likely that this £2 discrepancy was caused by pre-authorisations, 
as John Lewis has suggested. I know that Mr and Mrs G says that isnt possible, 
but I think it is possible for merchants to take small pre-authorisations in this way, and this sometimes happens even if there then isnt a follow-up transaction 
with the same merchant.
Mr and Mrs G said they wanted a full explanation. I think that John Lewis has given 
the best explanation its now able to give. And because pending transaction 
information will only be held on the system for a very short period, I note that its 
not unlikely that Mr and Mrs G wouldve received the same response, even if John 
Lewis had replied to their complaint much more quickly.
Mr and Mrs G said there was a significant delay in dealing with their complaint. 
They said this left them worrying about possible fraud. John Lewis has said that 
due to a system upgrade, it lost the first message they sent. It later said that it 
wasnt able to see some messages. I realise that this represents a lapse in 
customer service standards, and Ill bear that in mind when I think about 
compensation in this case.
Mr and Mrs G said that they also noted other system failures. They said 
transactions appeared in the wrong order on their statements. I think that John 
Lewis has explained that this is to do with the card numbers of the primary and 
secondary card holders, and its offered to fix this. I think thats a reasonable 
response for John Lewis to make.
Mr and Mrs G also mentioned that their secure messages show one unread 
message, but there is no unread message. John Lewis has said it will look into this. 
Its also said that it is having some system problems following a recent upgrade, and 
its working hard to put those right. I think this is also a reasonable response for 
John Lewis to make. I realise that Mr and Mrs G have expressed concerns about 
whether John Lewis systems are robust, but sadly, IT systems are not entirely 
infallible. I dont think that this problem, or the other issues which have been raised 
in this case, suggest to me that theres a more fundamental issue with how John 
Lewis is processing transactions on its cards.
Mr and Mrs G said they wanted a senior level review of their complaint by John 
Lewis. And they complained about the tone and content of the replies they 
received. I dont think John Lewis is obliged to provide a complaint review at any 
particular level of management within the company. What I would expect to see, 
whoever addresses the issues in a complaint, is that the issue has been taken 
seriously, and the reply deals with the points raised. I think John Lewis has done 
this, as best it is now able with the information it can now access. And I dont think 
that John Lewis responses have been meaningless, or inappropriate in tone.
I have considered the evidence and arguments in this case carefully. I think that the 
initial concern that Mr and Mrs G raised couldve been dealt with relatively quickly 
and straightforwardly if it had been raised as a security issue. Im pleased to see 
that John Lewis has signposted Mr and Mrs G to its security team if they should find 
transactions on their account they dont recognise in future. But it was raised as a 
complaint, and then initially lost by John Lewis. I think that has unfortunately 
prolonged Mr and Mrs Gs concerns in this case. And I dont think the £50 that John 
Lewis has offered Mr and Mrs G is quite enough to recognise whats gone wrong in 
this case. So I intend to tell John Lewis to pay a total of £100 in compensation now. 
For the reasons explained at the start of this decision, this award is made to Mr G.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.John Lewis said it was prepared to accept my decision. It will make this refund onto Mr Gs 
card account.
Mr and Mrs G also said that they would accept this decision. They also had some 
comments. 
They said it was unhelpful for financial services providers to insist that their IT systems were 
infallible. They remained confident that the discrepancy couldnt have been because of any 
remote purchase that wasnt followed up. But they were happy that John Lewis had now 
made positive improvements to how it listed pending transactions, so such a problem was 
unlikely to recur.
They said they hadnt actually complained about the order of transactions on their 
statements as part of this complaint, that had been conflated with their current complaint by 
John Lewis. 
They said they had recently had to complaint again, when all their transactions failed to 
show online. They werent asking our service to address this now. 
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind. Ill now make 
the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that John Lewis Financial Services Limited must pay Mr G £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman