DRN-3139218
The complaint
Mr D complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Privilege Insurance wont cover the 
full storage costs after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
On 22 July 2019 Mr D was unfortunately involved in an accident. He let UKI know about this, 
and also that the driver side window wouldnt close. He says he was told his insurance 
wouldnt be valid if the window wasnt secure and UKI told him to put his car in storage. His 
car remained in storage between 24 July 2019 and 13 December 2019. Mr D says he tried to 
speak to UKI on two occasions but was ignored. So, he complained.
UKI accepted theyd not handled things as well as they should have done, saying theyd not 
kept Mr D fully informed about what was happening  or replying to two emails from him, one 
in August 2019, and one on 24 September 2019. They paid him £100 compensation for this, 
and said theyd look to refund storage costs from 24 July 2019 to 30 September 2019. They 
said the reason they wouldnt refund the full costs is because theyd given Mr D the details of 
their repairer, and the repairer had attempted to contact Mr D to sort out the repair but 
couldnt reach him.
Mr D remained unhappy, so asked us to look into things. He said hes paid the storage 
costs, but their outcome to not refund him in full is unfair. He also explained hed tried to 
speak to the repairers but couldnt get through. And he wasnt clear on whether UKI had 
asked the other insurer to pay for the storage costs  as he felt they should as this related to 
the claim.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint. Overall, he felt UKI had offered a fair 
outcome by paying £100 compensation, and storage costs up to 30 September 2019.
Mr D didnt agree. He felt UKI should have asked the other insurer about the storage costs, 
rather than just deciding themselves, because they were the ones who told him to put the 
car in storage. Overall, he couldnt see why UKI shouldnt just pay the remainder of the 
costs. Because Mr D didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If UKI has made an error leading to a loss for Mr D then Ill require them to put that right. But 
Mr D will also need to have taken action to mitigate any potential losses  as it cant be fair a 
loss is allowed to keep continuing with a consumer not taking action.
Its poor that UKI essentially ignored Mr D for two months regarding his claim. To put that 
right theyve decided to pay £100 compensation, and just over £1,000 of the storage costs  
which were just over £2,000 in total.
UKI dont have a copy of the call recording where Mr D says he was told to put his car in 
storage  but have proceeded on the basis he was told this.
So, I need to consider whether UKIs offer is enough  and having thought about everything 
carefully, I think it is. I know this will disappoint Mr D. Ill explain why.
The claim happened on 22 July 2019. On 23 July, and again on 25 July, UKI gave Mr D 
details of their approved repairer. Mr D has provided evidence of when he attempted to call 
the repairer  the first attempt was over two months later on 26 September 2019. I do 
appreciate in between time hed contacted UKI twice without reply  which is what theyve 
compensated him for. But I think Mr D still had a responsibility to mitigate any potential 
losses for him or his insurer.
Mr Ds said hes then tried to speak to the approved repairer again in October and tried 
again on 12 December 2019. After this attempt which was unsuccessful, hes then moved 
the car on 13 December 2019.
Although I think UKI havent really helped Mr D initially, I think hes also not been as 
proactive as he could have been to have resolved the issue either. Given that, I find that 
UKIs offer of £100 compensation, plus just over £1,000 of the storage costs, is fair.
Ive noted Mr Ds comment that UKI should have asked the other insurer if theyd pay for 
these costs. But theyve explained theyre not prepared to do that, because they consider 
these costs extremely excessive. I dont think thats an unreasonable position for them to 
take given Ive found Mr D could have taken action earlier, so I wont be requiring UKI to do 
anything further on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman