DRN-3598814
The complaint
Mr W has complained about his mortgage account with Skipton Building Society. He says: 
Skipton:
wouldnt capitalise the arrears on his mortgage account,
wouldnt remove the existing joint borrower, and replace them with a different joint 
borrower, and
went back on an agreement to put him on a new preferential rate and pay him £500 
cashback.
What happened
Mr W has a mortgage with Skipton, which is held in joint names with his ex-wife, who Ill refer 
to as Ms X. I understand Ms X left the property over ten years ago, and whilst she was 
removed from the title of the property with the Land Registry she remains on the mortgage.
Mr W has been in arrears on and off over a number of years and weve dealt with a previous 
complaint about this mortgage.
This recent complaint was responded to by Skipton in November 2021. In its response 
Skipton said Mr W needed to make six consecutive monthly payments before an application 
to capitalise the arrears could be considered, and whilst initially the preferential rate had 
been removed, Skipton said it would put it back on the account as a gesture of goodwill to 
help Mr W. Skipton paid £426.64 to the mortgage account which it said more than covered 
Mr Ws half of the £500 cashback.
Mr W referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked at things and said that as 
Skipton felt the cashback should be paid to the mortgage account due to the arrears, and the 
mortgage account was still in joint names, then the full £500 should be credited as Mr W and 
Ms X would both benefit that way. He said as £426.64 had already been credited to the 
account, then a further £73.36 should be credited. He said Skipton had now put the 
preferential rate into place, and that it hadnt acted inappropriately in turning down Mr Ws 
requests to remove Ms X and to capitalise the arrears.
Mr W said he wanted it looked at again as he wasnt happy all Skipton needed to do was 
reduce the arrears by around £76, but when asked by our investigator what parts of the 
assessment he didnt agree with and why, no further response was received. As we cant 
keep cases in abeyance indefinitely the case has now been passed to me to decide without 
any further comment from Mr W.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capitalisation of arrears
Skipton said that it couldnt look at capitalising the mortgage arrears until after six 
consecutive monthly payments were made.
Lenders are entitled to set their own policies in relation to how and when they might 
capitalise arrears on a borrowers mortgage. Whilst there are benefits to capitalising arrears 
in situations where the borrowers circumstances have improved, its also important that the 
borrowers are not committed to making monthly payments they might struggle to afford in 
the longer term. Also, as the arrears are added to the balance  it means interest is charged 
on those arrears for the duration of the mortgage until its fully repaid, so can be more 
expensive in the long run. So its important that its considered carefully before anything is 
agreed. 
Given the level  and previous history - of arrears on Mr Ws mortgage, I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Skipton wanted to see that he could afford the monthly payments for six 
months before agreeing to capitalise the arrears. Mr Ws payment history had been very 
inconsistent, so I think Skipton was acting fairly when it said itd need to see a consistent 
pattern of payments over time.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint.
Change of parties
Mr W wants to remove Ms X from the mortgage, but Skipton has concerns about whether 
Mr W can afford the mortgage on his own, and it said it cant remove Ms X and add his new 
wife to the mortgage whilst it is in arrears  which is understandable. Skipton has said that 
once the mortgage has been out of arrears for six months, then it can consider an 
application to change the parties on the account.
Having considered everything Im satisfied that Skipton reached its decision fairly not to 
accept a change of parties application, after taking into account all relevant factors, including 
(but not limited to) affordability and Mr Ws specific circumstances. I think the concerns 
Skipton had over affordability, after taking into account Mr Ws circumstances and 
repayment history, were valid and on that basis I am unable to conclude that Skipton did 
anything wrong in not changing the parties on the mortgage account.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint.
Preferential interest rate
Finally, Mr W was unhappy that Skipton reversed its decision to allow him a new preferential 
rate product on the account (which came with £500 cashback). I dont need to decide if 
Skipton did anything wrong here as it has already done everything Id ask it to do if I were to 
reach that conclusion (which Im not saying either way). It has transferred the account to the 
preferential rate, and credited £500 to the mortgage account in respect of the cashback. 
Whilst I understand Mr W wanted the cashback paid to him directly, I wouldnt say Skipton 
was wrong to use that sum to reduce the amount of arrears Mr W owed to it at that time.
Following our investigators recommendation, Skipton confirmed it had now reduced the 
mortgage balance by a further £73.36 to take it to the full £500 cashback amount. 
Having considered everything Im satisfied that is a fair outcome to this complaint and I dont 
order Skipton to do anything more.My final decision
I uphold this complaint, but only insofar as I agree with our investigator that the arrears 
balance should be reduced by a further £73.36 (with the account being amended to the 
position it would be in had that reduction happened on 30 November 2021). Skipton has said 
it had already made that amendment. I make no further order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman