DRN-2818891
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money applied an annual card 
fee to her account unfairly and without notification.  
What happened
Mrs J holds a Virgin Atlantic Reward Plus credit card account. The annual fee for the card is 
£160 and a renewal fee was charged to her account in January 2021. The card comes with 
the benefit of earning points via the spending on the card. The points can then be used to 
access benefits such as companion flights and upgrades. 
Mrs J contacted Virgin Money in January 2021 to ask for her account to be cancelled. She 
says this was because she was unable to use the benefits due to the covid-19 pandemic and 
associated lockdown restrictions. 
But Virgin Money told her that it was too late to avoid paying the annual fee for 2021 as the 
fee had been charged to the account a few days before her call. And, in the period between 
the fee being charged and her request to close the account, she had used the card to make 
a transaction and had earned points on that transaction. But Mrs J says that she hadnt been 
notified that the annual fee was due to be taken, so she didnt think this was fair and she 
raised a complaint.  
Virgin Money issued Mrs J with its Final Response Letter (FRL). But it didnt uphold her 
complaint. It said that an email had been sent to Mrs J in December 2020 detailing when the 
fee would be taken and that she called to cancel her account after the fee had been debited. 
It acknowledged that Mrs J was unable to earn points via travelling but pointed out that she 
could use the card for all types of spending on the account and still earn points for future 
travel.
Unhappy with Virgin Moneys response, Mrs J referred her complaint to us. She said she 
had never received the email confirming the date the fee was due to be taken. And, had she 
known the renewal date, she would have cancelled the account sooner.  
One of our investigators looked into what Mrs J had said. But he didnt uphold the complaint. 
He acknowledged that Covid-19 had impacted on Mrs J being able to use her card in the 
way she wanted to. But he didnt think Virgin Money had done anything wrong. He was 
satisfied that Virgin Money was entitled to debit the account fee on an annual basis and that 
it had provided enough evidence to indicate that an email had been sent to Mrs J to remind 
her of the date the fee was due. 
Mrs J didnt agree. She maintained that Virgin Money hadnt notified her that the card 
renewal fee was due to be taken. And added that it was unfair to be charged the annual fee 
when she called to cancel just a few days after the renewal date. She also questioned why 
she wasnt offered a 14-day cooling off period.   
Our investigator considered what Mrs J had said. But he didnt think this changed the 
outcome he had reached. He explained that a 14-day cooling off period only applied when 
Mrs J first entered into the credit card agreement with Virgin Money  not on the annual 
renewal date. He also explained that Virgin Money had confirmed that when a card was 
used after the card renewal date, a refund is not available. He also reiterated that Virgin 
Money had provided enough evidence to show that a renewal fee email had been sent to 
Mrs J.   
Mrs J still disagreed. So, the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator. In order to 
uphold this complaint, I would have to find that Virgin Money has done something wrong and 
I dont think it did. I know Mrs J will be disappointed with my decision because I can see how 
strongly she feels about the matter, so Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the credit agreement Mrs J agreed to when she 
first opened her credit card account. These say the cost of the card is £160 per annum and 
each annual fee would will be debited on the anniversary of the account opening date.  
Mrs J hasnt disputed that the fee was applicable. Rather, she says she wasnt notified that 
the fee was due to be taken allowing her the opportunity to cancel before the due date. But 
in this respect, Virgin Money has provided evidence to show that an email was sent to the 
same email address that we hold for Mrs J. Its dated 3 December 2020 and timed at 
13:00:53. And that the subject line of the email says: The annual fee for your Virgin Atlantic 
Rewards+ credit card is due. 
I acknowledge Mrs J says didnt receive this email and that Virgin Moneys records indicate 
the email wasnt actually opened. But I think its possible that the email went to Mrs Js spam 
email account and thats why she didnt see it or open it. But overall, Im persuaded it was 
sent.
Mrs J has queried why she wasnt given a 14-day cooling off period. But, as the investigator 
has explained, this fee wasnt for a new credit agreement, it was the anniversary of an 
existing agreement. So, Im satisfied that a 14-day cooling off period doesnt apply in these 
circumstances.    
Its not in dispute that Mrs J called a few days after the fee was applied or that her card was 
used for a transaction in between the renewal date and the date of her call. But Mrs J was 
told that had she not used the card in the interim period she would have received a refund. 
And she feels its unfair that she still has to pay the full annual fee having only made one 
small transaction. 
I can see our investigator did ask Virgin Money about this this. In response, it provided 
evidence of the refund policy it put in place as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. The policy 
says that, in recognition of the pandemic, it gave Virgin Atlantic Reward Plus customers a 
partial refund of £40 in 2020. It also says that if an account holder requests the card to be 
cancelled and they have not spent on the card within three months of the annual fee being 
charged, a refund could be offered. But the policy goes onto day that a refund is not 
applicable if the card has been used.  
So, while I can appreciate Mrs J point and I can see how strongly she feels about it, Im 
satisfied that Virgin Money provided Mrs J with the correct information and that that it wasnt 
required to refund the annual fee in her circumstances. Overall, Im unable to conclude that Virgin Money has gone anything wrong, so I wont be 
asking it to take any further steps in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman