DRN-4399405
The complaint
Ms E is unhappy with the way in which AWP P&C SA handled a claim made under her travel 
insurance policy (the policy).
All reference to AWP includes its medical assistance team. And although Ms E is being 
represented, Ill refer to Ms E throughout as its her complaint. 
What happened
Whilst abroad at the end of 2022  on an extended trip - Ms E suffered a knee injury. She 
sought medical attention and was told that shed most likely sprained her knee.
However, her knee deteriorated, and AWP was contacted for assistance under the policy. 
AWP agreed to provide cover and said that its medical team proposed repatriation to the UK 
with the following conditions:
- Regular flight in business class
- Wheelchair
- Taxi both sides to home address 
- Urgent follow up in the UK
AWP also asked for a medical report to be provided from the medical facility.
Subsequently, Ms E had an MRI scan on her knee, and, around 22 December 2022, an 
orthopaedic surgeon diagnosed a tear in her knee and proposed surgery. 
The orthopaedic surgeon advised that:
- the chance of successful repair decreases with increased delay between injury and 
surgery.
- Ms E was fit to fly but they recommended waiting until six weeks post-injury (so mid-
January 2023) to fly to reduce her risk of DVT.
- a large seat on the plane would be required together with help with baggage.
In light of the orthopaedic surgeons advice, a flight back to the UK was arranged for six 
weeks post-injury. 
At the end of December 2022, Ms Es dad emailed AWP to say that an appointment had 
been arranged with an orthopaedic surgeon on Ms Es return to the UK as part of the urgent 
follow up treatment Ms E required in the UK.
AWP replied that the policy only covered medical costs abroad and it wouldnt cover any 
medical costs incurred after returning to the UK.
Ms E is unhappy because AWP initially included in its repatriation proposal that Ms E 
required urgent follow up in the UK and so believed that AWP would be covering the costs of 
the treatment required. 
Otherwise, she says she couldve stayed in the country she was living and working under a 
visa and had the required medical treatment there. By returning to the UK for treatment, she 
says she has lost out financially as she left the job she had whilst abroad. 
Ms E is also unhappy that from the start she says AWP wanted to repatriate her to the UK to 
save money, even though  as it transpires  it would not have been safe for her to fly as 
advised by the orthopaedic surgeon. 
As AWP didnt reply to her complaint, she brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Subsequently, AWP issued its final response letter at the end of March 2023 
apologising for the service she received, which it accepted wasnt to the required standard. It 
offered Ms E £85 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. 
Ms E didnt agree that this amount fairly compensated her for the impact of AWPs errors.
Our investigator looked into what happened and recommended that the £85 now offered by 
AWP was fair and reasonable. Ms E disagreed and provided further points in reply. These 
didnt change our investigators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to consider 
everything afresh to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly. It must also handle insurance 
claims fairly and promptly. 
The relevant terms and conditions of the policy
Section A of the terms and conditions of the policy sets out the cover for emergency medical 
expenses. 
It reflects that cover is provided for:
normal and necessary receipted expenses of emergency or surgical treatment 
incurred outside your home country.
It also says: 
Note
The insurer reserves the right to repatriate you to your home country when in the 
opinion of the medical emergency assistance service you are fit to travel.
And the exclusions relating to this section of the policy includes AWP not paying for:
any claim directly or indirectly caused by, arising from, or in connection with
medical expenses incurred in your home country.
AWPs handling of the claimWhen first being contacted for assistance in relation to Ms Es knee injury, AWP did propose 
repatriation back to the UK with conditions. But, from reading the email, I think that was 
subject to receiving a medical report from the medical facility abroad. 
Matters then progressed and Ms E had an MRI and met with the orthopaedic surgeon 
around 22 December 2022. AWP agreed to proceed in light of the orthopaedic surgeons 
advice and arranged a flight home for six weeks after the injury happened. I think that was 
reasonable. 
I know Ms E is concerned that if shed not seen the orthopaedic surgeon and had followed 
the advice of AWP at the time, it might not have been safe for her to fly. I do not seek to 
minimise her concern but ultimately, she wasnt repatriated back to the UK before the date 
advised by the orthopaedic surgeon. And Im not persuaded that Ms E experienced any 
detriment as a result of AWPs initial proposal that she could be repatriated to the UK based 
on the information it had at time and subject to reviewing a medical report. 
When initially advising Ms E that she should be repatriated to the UK, one of the conditions 
included urgent follow up in the UK. I agree that it shouldve been made clearer that AWP 
would not be arranging or paying for the follow up treatment after returning to the UK.
So, Im persuaded that Ms E wouldve been upset to find out a couple of weeks before flying 
back to the UK that shed be responsible for arranging further treatment through the NHS or 
self-funding treatment if she wanted to access private medical care in the UK. Im satisfied 
AWPs offer to pay £85 compensation fairly reflects the upset and distress she experienced 
as a result of its error. 
However, Im also satisfied that the ultimate decision taken by AWP was fair and reasonable 
and in line with the policy terms which clearly sets out that AWP only covers emergency or 
surgical treatment incurred outside Ms Es home country. 
Im satisfied that the medical evidence Ive been provided with doesnt support that Ms E 
required emergency surgery on her knee. Although the orthopaedic surgeon advised that the 
chance of successful repair of the knee decreases with increased delay between injury and 
surgery, Ive seen nothing to suggest that this meant the surgery had to be completed 
urgently and before the earliest date they recommended Ms E should fly  around three 
weeks after the date of their assessment of Ms E. And whilst abroad, awaiting repatriation, 
Ms E was having physiotherapy on her knee.
AWP had made clear its position two weeks before Ms E was due to fly to the UK and, if at 
that time, she wanted to remain abroad for treatment rather than return to the UK, theres 
nothing to suggest she couldnt have done that. 
The orthopaedic surgeon advised that Ms E was fit to fly but recommended she wait until 
mid-January 2023 to do so, which AWP agreed with. Further, Ive explained above why I 
think surgery on her knee wasnt an emergency. So, if Ms E had elected to remain abroad to 
have surgery in the country she was staying in, Im satisfied this wouldnt have been covered 
under the policy.
I know Ms E is unhappy that by returning to the UK she lost out on the potential income she 
couldve carried on earning if shed remained abroad, but I dont think I can reasonably hold 
AWP responsible for that. I dont think its position that she be repatriated to the UK for 
further treatment on her knee was unreasonable, particularly as there was no reason why 
she shouldnt fly from mid-January 2023 and didnt require emergency treatment.
Other issuesMs E has more recently told our investigator that AWP arent paying travelling expenses she 
incurred abroad and claimed for. That wasnt part of the complaint initially brought to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. If Ms E is unhappy that AWP hasnt paid all or part of her 
claimed expenses, shes free to raise her concerns with AWP in the first instance so that 
these can be investigated and responded to. 
Putting things right
AWP should pay Ms E £85 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman