DRN-2416619
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and then closed his bank account. And 
took too long to return money held in the account to him.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr Y opened a current account with Barclays. 
Barclays decided to review how Mr Y was operating his account. Whilst it conducted its 
review the bank blocked Mr Ys account. Following its review, on 22 April 2019, Barclays 
decided to close Mr Ys account immediately. And asked Mr Y to provide proof of his 
entitlement to the closing balance of his account, which was just under £9,500. 
Mr Y told the bank that the money in his account was from re-mortgaging his house and an 
ISA he had. On 25 April 2019, Mr Y gave Barclays paperwork to support what hed said. 
Barclays reviewed the information Mr Y had provided.  But it wasnt satisfied it showed Mr Y 
was entitled to the money. And on 15 May 2019, it asked Mr Y for more information, which 
Mr Y gave the bank on 4 June 2019. On 11 June 2019 Barclays released Mr Ys funds to 
him. 
Mr Y complained to Barclays. He said the bank didnt tell him it had blocked his account and 
he only found out when he tried to use his card to pay for something in a shop. He also said 
the bank didnt let him know it had closed his account and took too long to give him back his 
money. Hes explained, he had to borrow £9,000 from a friend at a cost of £300 because he 
couldnt access the money left in his account. So, he wants the bank to compensate him for 
his loss. Barclays said it had acted in accordance with the terms of the account and relevant 
regulations. 
Mr Y wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service where an 
investigator considered it. The investigator said Barclays hadnt done anything wrong when it 
reviewed and closed Mr Ys account. 
Mr Y didnt accept the investigators view. He wants the bank to pay him compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Barclays has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
Barclays may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. If Barclays 
didnt comply with its obligations it could risk serious sanction.
In order to meet these requirements Barclays is entitled to ask a customer for more 
information about how they use their account, including payments which are made into an 
account. And its not for this service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to see 
if the bank has made any mistakes and then put the customer back in the position theyd 
have been in if the mistake hadnt happened.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Barclays to block Mr Ys account and ask him for information about the money which had 
been paid into his account and how he was operating the account. Barclays has explained 
that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. So, whilst I accept this caused 
Mr Y inconvenience, I cant say Barclays treated him unfairly when it blocked his account. 
And asked him for information. 
I understand Mr Y wants Barclays to explain the reason it applied the block to his account. 
But Barclays doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. Its 
under no obligation to tell Mr Y the reasons behind the account review and block, as much 
as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr Y this 
information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
Mr Y says Barclays took too long to complete its review of his account and the information 
he provided. And should have done things more quickly. Hes explained that he had to 
borrow £9,000 from a friend who charged him £300 for the loan. I do accept that it took just 
under two months for Barclays to release Mr Ys money to him. But I do not consider that it 
would be right for me to conclude it should not have taken in excess of any particular or 
specific timeframe. Because the bank was entitled  as a matter of principle  to do what it 
did. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr Y compensation.
I also note that Barclays spoke to Mr Y on several occasions and asked him to provide more 
information about the credits into his account. So, I think Barclays kept Mr Y informed about 
what it was doing. And what information it needed from him. I can see that the bank asked 
Mr Y for information on more than one occasion, each time Mr Y provided paperwork, and I 
dont think it unreasonable that the bank needed time to examine what hed provided and 
make enquiries. The bank needed to be satisfied Mr Y was entitled to the money. I can see 
that once the bank had finished its review it released Mr Ys balance to him quickly. Overall, I 
think Barclays took appropriate measures to find a way forward for Mr Y to be able to access 
the money remaining in his bank account. And completed its review in a timely manner.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ys account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Barclays closed Mr Ys account immediately. In my view that was reasonable given the 
banks concerns about how Mr Y was operating the account. So, it was entitled to close the 
account as it has already done. Mr Y has said Barclays didnt notify him it had closed his 
account. But Ive seen a copy of a letter that Barclays sent to Mr Y on 22 April 2019 to let 
him know it had decided to close his account. I havent seen any evidence that Mr Y was 
having problems receiving post, and I can see that the letter was correctly addressed. So, I 
think its likely he did receive the letter of closure. In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mr Y when Barclays blocked and 
closed his account. And didnt release funds to him. So, I realise he will be disappointed by 
my decision. But I dont believe Barclays acted unreasonably or treated Mr Y unfairly in 
taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman