DRN-2508584
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not reimburse the money they lost after 
falling victim to an email intercept scam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms son is an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA), whom Mr M often exchanges 
emails for financial advice with. 
Mr M said at the end of September 2019, he was looking to invest some money and 
therefore had been exchanging emails over several weeks with his son about where and 
how to invest.
On 10 December 2019 at 10:19, Mr M received an email, which appeared to come from his 
son and followed on in the same chain of emails. The email was a continuation of their 
conversation, with an additional paragraph at the end asking Mr M whether he could 
complete a temporary transfer of £12,600, to his sons TSB account. Mr Ms son explained 
that this was to show TSB that the account was still operating and in turn prevent the 
account from closing. Mr Ms son also said he will return the money to Mr M the following 
week. The account details were stated in the email. 
On 10 December at 10:25, another email was received from Mr Ms son, again a 
continuation of their conversation, with a line at the end asking Mr M to let his son know 
when the transfer of £12,600 is made. The account details were again recorded at the 
bottom of the email. 
On the same day at 14:57, Mr M emailed his son to say he cant find the TSB bank details 
and asked his son to send them over again, so Mr M can complete the transfer. The bank 
details were again provided to Mr M as per his request and were located at the end of an 
email, which was in response to Mr Ms question to his son about Mrs Ms pension. 
Mr M said he believed the email to be from his son and so transferred £12,600 from a joint 
account to the account details provided on the same day. The payment flagged up on 
HSBCs system and Mr M was sent a text message asking him to call HSBC to discuss the 
payment, which he did. Mr M said during this call he was asked to verify that he had 
authorised the payment, which he confirmed he had and was happy for the payment to be 
made. Mr M said there was no mention of a possible scam. Mr M said he believed this to be 
standard routine checks due to the amount he was transferring.
On the same day, at 19:45, Mr M emailed his son to inform him that the payment had been 
blocked and that he had just spoken to HSBC about the validity of the transfer. He told his 
son that the payment had now been released and asked his son to confirm receipt of the 
funds. 
On 11 December 2019, Mr M received a reply to his email which confirmed receipt of the 
payment but asked for a further payment of £10,000 on each of the next five days. At this 
point Mr M felt as though something was wrong. Mr M said the nature of the request and the 
style of the language used made him suspicious, so he called his son. Mr Ms son said he 
had no knowledge about this email exchange, so Mr M contacted the police. Mr M said the 
police informed Mr M about the type of scam he had fallen victim to and thats when Mr M 
noticed the additional character on the email address. 
Mr M also reported the scam to HSBC, who contacted the beneficiary bank to try and 
recover the funds, but only managed to recover £7.03. HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint 
as they believed Mr M was provided with an appropriate warning over the phone when he 
called the bank to verify the payment. HSBC also said Mr M should have carried out 
additional checks before making the payment. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think the warnings provided by
HSBC were specific or impactful. In addition, he felt Mr M had a reasonable
basis for believing the instruction he received was genuine, so HSBC were liable under
the provisions of the CRM Code. In any case, he felt HSBC ought to have done more to
intervene and stop the payment.
HSBC disagreed and said appropriate warnings were provided. HSBC also felt there were a 
number of indicators  as listed below, which ought to have alerted Mr M to the fact that the 
instructions were not genuine: 
The email address was different to Mr Ms sons address
The email contained the hallmarks of a scam
Mr M didnt check the details with his son prior to making a substantial payment 
Mr M ignored effective warnings provided by HSBC during the call that took place on 
10 December 2019. Mr M also incorrectly informed HSBC that he had verbally 
confirmed the details
Mr M was not expecting to pay funds to his son prior to the email but didnt question 
this or ask why his sons account might be closed without the payment
Our investigator, in response, pointed out that whilst the email address was slightly different, 
the difference was not easy to notice. The investigator also explained that 
Mr M didnt attempt to contact his son as he already thought he was communicating with 
him. The investigator reiterated that the banks employee didnt go far enough to warn Mr M 
and that the warning provided by HSBC wasnt effective. 
Ultimately, HSBC felt Mr M could have done more to prevent this fraud happening. HSBC 
said it provided Mr M with appropriate fraud warnings when speaking with Mr M to verify the 
payment. HSBC also felt that Mr M could have done more to check that it was a genuine 
payment request, such as verifying the details with his son. HSBC also said Mr M was 
grossly negligent.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the full amount of 
money Mr and Mrs M lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
Having recognised this payment was unusual and out of character, HSBC should
have gone further than it did to question the payment. If it had done so, I am satisfied
the fraud would have come to light and the loss would have been prevented
In the circumstances, therefore, HSBC should fairly and reasonably refund the 
money Mr and Mrs M lost
The money was taken from Mr and Mrs Ms current account. It is not clear how they 
would have used the money if HSBC had refunded them when it should have done, 
so the bank should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% 
simple per year from the date of the transaction to the date of settlement.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about the warning it gave and whether 
Mr M had a reasonable basis for believing the payee was whom he was expecting to pay. 
But they do not persuade me to reach a different outcome fundamentally to the one reached 
by the investigator  who upheld this. In particular, I am not persuaded that the consumer 
failed to take the requisite level of care required for the firm to choose not to reimburse under 
the terms of the CRM Code. And, for completeness, Im also satisfied that Mr M did not act 
with gross negligence and Ill explain why. 
Effective warnings 
HSBC initially blocked Mr Ms payment and sent him a text message asking him to call them 
to verify the payment. I have set out the relevant parts of the call below: 
HSBC: This is a payment going to JM okay for £12,600. Is that correct sir?
Mr M confirmed that it was correct.
HSBC: Okay and how did you obtain the account details from J? 
Mr M informed HSBC that J was his son. 
HSBC: Face to face sir? Was it face to face? 
Mr M: Over the phone. No, no actually a combination of email and I think its done by 
email actually yes
HSBC: Oh ok. So, have you verified the details verbally from your son? Because we have 
seen examples of emails getting hacked and diverted okay. 
Mr M: Yes..yeah no this is correct
HSBC: This is correct? Okay thank you. Alright. Okay Ill go ahead and see to it that this is 
released for you and once that is done HSBC will not be held liable anymore. And please 
make sure that whenever you receive a call you do not offer account or personal details 
because there are emails, Im sorry there are callers pretending to be HSBC bank ok
Mr M: Yes I do exactly that when I got your text message because I thought this could be 
anybody, so I actually called a different HSBC number.HSBC: Oh right, ok, yeh
HSBC: The difference is that we are not asking you to generate a pin from your security 
device, but fraudsters would ask that. They will also ask you to make payments to other 
accounts. HSBC will never ask you to do such.
Mr M: I would not
HSBC: Thank you, alright, please take care now. This payment has now been released and 
HSBC will not be held liable. Thank you. Bye
HSBC are of the opinion that the warning they provided was specific to the scam that Mr M 
was at risk of and that it was the right warning given the nature of the scam. HSBC has also 
said that when Mr M was asked whether he had verified the details verbally, he said yes. 
Its accepted that HSBC flagged the payment for additional checks, but I dont think the 
warning provided was effective. This is because, whilst Mr M and HSBC were talking over 
each other, Mr M clearly informs the adviser that the details were received via email. Mr M 
tells HSBC that the details are correct, and HSBC simply accept that response. HSBC then 
go onto provide information about a different type of scam, which is not relevant to Mr M.
I also dont think the warning provided is likely to be effective for anyone who is at risk of 
falling victim to an email intercept scam. I say this because whilst the adviser attempts to 
explain that they have seen emails getting hacked and diverted they dont explain how a 
fraudster can pose as someone or send emails from their email address or something which 
looks very similar. They also dont explain that fraudulent emails can appear in the middle of 
a legitimate chain of emails and that the only way of knowing whether the email legitimately 
came from his son was to call him.
Mr M had been speaking to his son via email for several weeks. So, it was particularly 
important for any warning to bring alive the scam, how it works and how it could be 
prevented. Of course, it wouldnt be practical for staff to do this for every conceivable scam, 
but the advisers questions show that the particular risk had been correctly identified here, 
yet the warnings failed to do this.
I accept the adviser asked Mr M whether he had obtained the account details verbally, but 
Im not persuaded the significance of this would hit home to the average consumer when 
they already think theyre liaising with their son  in particular when, as Ive said, the warning 
did nothing to explain what email interception looks like in reality. 
During this call it seems as though Mr M is more occupied in his mind about whether the 
account details are correct, rather than seeing any risk with how he has been provided the 
details. I dont think its enough to explain that fraudsters can hack and divert emails. That 
can be interpreted in several different ways. It doesnt get across that a fraudster could 
impersonate the person the consumer thinks theyre interacting with or that a communication 
from the fraudster could be almost indistinguishable from a genuine communication. 
The warning also doesnt set out the consequences of making the payment  for example 
that the funds are irrecoverable if he makes the payment. HSBC only say theyre not liable. 
So, I dont think the warnings given were impactful nor went far enough to be effective. And, 
I dont think Mr M acted unreasonably by proceeding with the payment after hearing them.Did Mr M have a reasonable basis for belief?
I have also carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Mr M had a 
reasonable basis for belief and was grossly negligent. But they do not persuade me to reach 
a different view. In reaching this conclusion Im mindful that:
While the fraudulent email, in hindsight, wasnt perfectly written nor entirely 
consistent with the format of the genuine conversation, it wasnt so poorly written or 
unusual that it ought to have reasonably caused Mr M to question whether it was 
genuine, particularly given that it was in a paragraph of an email he was expecting.
There was a small difference in the email address, in that that there was an 
additional t. I dont think Mr M wouldve closely analysed the email address to check 
it was exactly the same  particularly as the email from the fraudster was in response 
to an email he had sent to his son. Im satisfied that as far as Mr M was concerned, 
hed received an expected response from his son  its not realistic for firms to expect 
customers to look out for tiny discrepancies in an email address, particularly when a 
firm has not alerted a customer to the possibility of a fraudster posing as someone in 
the middle of a chain of genuine email correspondence, using the same or a very 
similar email address.
The emails sent by the scammer referred to Mr M as dad and contained the 
financial advice Mr M was expecting to receive. The emails were also in response to 
the questions Mr M had asked his son. So, I think it would have been very difficult for 
Mr M to distinguish between the genuine parts of the emails, compared to what the 
scammer had added. 
Whilst Mr M was not expecting to pay funds to his son prior to receiving the payment 
request, Mr M received the payment request as part of an email chain and was 
provided with a plausible reason as to why the payment was required. Mr M trusted 
his son and because he thought he was speaking to his son, I can understand why 
Mr M didnt feel the need to question this any further. I can further understand why 
the payment request didnt raise any suspicions for Mr M. 
Im also satisfied Mr M wasnt aware just how sophisticated the methods of posing as 
someone could be.
Looking at everything, Im persuaded that HSBC should have refunded the money Mr M lost 
under the terms of the CRM Code. I am not satisfied that any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
In addition, Im persuaded that HSBC could have prevented Mr M from making the payment 
in the first place by asking him probing questions such as what is the reason for the 
transfer, was the payment request out of the blue and have you called your son on a 
known number to check that the payment details are correct?. I think by asking the 
questions along the lines of what Ive set out, Mr Ms decision making would have been 
affected, which would have led to him making direct contact with his son before proceeding 
any further. 
If Mr M had spoken with his son, the scam would have quickly unravelled. This means HSBC 
should have prevented the loss rather than just reimbursing Mr M under the provisions of the 
CRM Code. Putting things right
To put things right HSBC should do the following:
- Refund Mr and Mrs M the full £12,600 lost to the scam less any sum recovered and 
refunded to Mr and Mrs M;
- Pay 8% simple per year from the date the money left the account to the date of 
settlement 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman