DRN-3702759
The complaint
Mr S complains that J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams), trading as Simply Be, 
irresponsibly granted him a catalogue shopping account he says he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In September 2015 Mr S entered into an agreement with J D Williams to have access to 
credit by way of a Simply Be catalogue shopping account with an opening credit limit of 
£125. There followed a series of ten credit limit increases, beginning in December 2015 with 
an increase to £200 and ending in December 2017 with a credit limit increase up to £2,500. 
The account went into default and was passed to a third-party collection agency in 
December 2018.
Mr S says that J D Williams didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened 
the account and shouldnt have granted him the account and further credit when it allowed 
him further credit limit increases. He says he was already struggling financially at the time.
J D Williams has offered to refund Mr S all the interest and charges he incurred as a result of 
his credit limit being increased from £750 to £1,200 on 24 September 2016 and the further 
credit limit increases that followed. Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and thought the 
offer was fair. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this and so requested that his complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and Mr Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the Mr S. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator thought that the first five increases to Mr Ss credit limit on the account, 
between December 2015 and May 2016, didnt show or suggest irresponsible lending by 
J D Williams. I agree that Mr Ss use of his account showed that he was generally 
managing it well and I dont think the level of increases was such that they raised a 
concern in light of his spending pattern on the account. 
By September 2016, however, when the credit limit was increased to £1,200 and Mr S 
had missed making two regular monthly payments and made an underpayment since the 
previous limit increase in May 2016, he appears to have been getting into financial 
difficulty. Ive also noticed that a new default was recorded against other borrowing in 
July 2016  a further suggestion that Mr S may have been experiencing difficulty in 
managing his finances. Also, since March 2016 Mr S had begun to use up more of his 
available credit limit. 
So I think by September 2016 J D Williams ought to have been on notice that Mr S might 
be getting into difficulty with making payments, including those to other lenders. Although 
from what Ive seen the checks carried out by J D Williams didnt show the level of 
defaults Mr S has told us about, I think the missed payments, underpayment and 
increasing level of default were likely enough to raise a concern with J D Williams so that 
it shouldnt have given him any further credit limit increases. 
I have also considered the terms of the offer. I can see that its in line with the redress we 
ask J D Williams to pay and reflects the particular circumstances of the account. Mr S is 
unhappy that J D Williams hasnt removed the default or other adverse information from his 
account. But our general approach to cases like this is to require adverse information to only 
be removed from a credit file once the outstanding account balance has been cleared. This 
is fair and reasonable given that the Mr S has already had the benefit of the money he spent. 
It follows that I consider J D Williamss offer to be fair and reasonable given the 
circumstances of this complaint. Im sorry that Im not able to help Mr S further on this 
occasion. 
It follows that I am partially upholding this complaint. Putting things right  what J D Williams needs to do
Rework Mr Ss account to ensure that from 24 September 2016 onwards 
interest is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £750, including 
any buy now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to 
reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All 
late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams or the third party collection business should contact 
Mr S to arrange an affordable repayment plan for this account. Once Mr S has 
repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove any adverse information 
recorded on Mr Ss credit file from 24 September 2016 onwards.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. 
J D Williams should also remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file 
from 24 September 2016 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. 
J D Williams must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require J D Williams & Company Limited to pay 
compensation to Mr S as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman