DRN-3126808
The complaint and background
Mr C feels that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) was irresponsible to give him an  
overdraft limit on his current account, and to then allow him to increase it to over £2,500 
given his financial circumstances at the time. He would like the charges he has paid 
refunded and the default regarding this account removed from his credit file.
Halifax looked at Mr Cs complaint, it felt that it had acted reasonably in agreeing the 
overdraft limit increases that Mr C had requested. Mr C remained unhappy, so he referred 
his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs concerns, she thought Halifax should not have 
agreed to increase Mr Cs overdraft limit on 13 November 2015 as she felt it was clear by 
that stage that he would struggle to manage further borrowing. So the adjudicator said that 
Halifax should refund any charges and fees applied as a result of that overdraft increase. 
She also set out that if there was an outstanding balance remaining on the account when 
this refund had been done then Halifax would need to backdate Mr Cs credit file to reflect 
what the position would have been had it started taking action to assist Mr C with his 
overdraft in November 2015.
Halifax pointed out that all charges applied to the account after 13 November 2015 had 
already been refunded to Mr Cs account before it was defaulted, and that Mr C had then 
also received some additional refunds on top of that amount. And as the remaining balance 
that was defaulted consisted almost entirely of funds Mr C had spent, Halifax did not agree 
that it would be reasonable to amend Mr Cs credit file. 
Mr C remains of the view that he would not have ended up defaulting his account if Halifax 
hadnt agreed to give him an overdraft, so as an agreement could not be reached, the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax has already done is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. So where a business lent irresponsibly, or continued 
to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, 
wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
paid any further interest and charges on that credit. But we wouldnt generally expect a 
business to write off any debt that consists of funds the consumer has spent  the consumer 
would, after all, have seen some kind of benefit from those funds.
Mr C feels he wouldnt have incurred the debt he did  or ended up with a default on his 
credit file  if Halifax hadnt agreed to give him such large overdraft facilities. Ive thought 
about what Mr C has said. But Halifax has removed all the interest and fees applied after 13 
November 2015, which is where I think it should have become clear that the overdraft was 
likely to be unaffordable for Mr C  which is what we would expect a bank to do in these 
circumstances. And these refunds were done before the account was defaulted. Mr C has 
said he was told the account would be defaulted in 2017, but it wasnt actually defaulted until 
2019, several months after the majority of the fees had been refunded in October 2018. 
Halifax had also previously made attempts to contact Mr C to agree some kind of way 
forward, which could potentially have helped Mr C avoid a default. So with this in mind, and 
considering that the balance that was defaulted consisted of funds that Mr C had spent and 
not charges that had been applied I dont think Halifax needs to make any changes to Mr Cs 
credit file. I think that the default is an accurate representation of Mr Cs financial position 
regarding this account.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr C, but Im satisfied that what Halifax 
has already done is a fair resolution to his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland UK Plc (trading as 
Halifax) has already done to put things right is fair, and I dont require it to do anything more, 
so Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman