DRN-2636413
The complaint
Ms D complains Nationwide Building Society will not refund two disputed transactions from 
her credit card.
Nationwide say the payments were authorised.  
What happened
Ms D complained about two transactions made to merchant L from her credit card in 
November 2019.  They were both made on the same day and amounted to just over £1000.  
She explained she had made some payments to L on three occasions in June 2019 - but 
these were from her current account and were made in order to help a friend.  Ill call her 
friend V.  L was a storage company and V had no other way to make the payments so had 
asked Ms D to help.
Initially, Nationwide said Ms D should contact L directly to try to resolve the issue.  But the 
account with L was not in Ms Ds name so it refused to speak to her.  So, she returned to 
Nationwide.
Nationwide carried out a chargeback on the transactions on the basis Ms D had not given L 
permission to take the payments.  L responded by providing a receipt for the payments and 
correspondence it had had with V.  On the basis of this evidence, Nationwide did not uphold 
Ms Ds complaint. And it said it couldnt raise a second chargeback so was not able to help 
her further. 
In its final response issued in January 2020, it offered Ms D £25 for the delay in dealing with 
her complaint.
Ms D then came to this service.  She said she had never provided L with her credit card 
details so Nationwide had failed to protect her.  She also said the advice provided by staff 
members at Nationwide had been poor.  She wanted the transactions to be refunded and to 
be compensated for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator thought Nationwide had not acted fairly.  He thought it should refund the two 
transactions as well as any fees or charges added as a result.  He said it appeared Ms D 
had in fact entered her card details into Ls website to make the payments for V, but the 
payment hadnt gone through. She had then made the payment on her debit card.  Our 
investigator didnt think Ms D had authorised the payments by simply entering her card 
details.
Nationwide didnt agree.  It said Ms D had agreed to Ls terms and conditions by entering her 
card details via Vs account.  Consequently, she was liable for the payments taken.  It asked 
that an ombudsman consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules which are relevant to Ms Ds complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs). They say that if the evidence suggests Ms D more than likely authorised 
these payments, Nationwide is entitled to hold her liable.  If the evidence is to the contrary, 
Nationwide would normally have to refund the payments.
The test for authorisation is a two-stage test.  It consists of authentication and consent.  In 
other words, was Ms Ds genuine card used to make the payments and did Ms D consent to 
them being made?  I also remind myself that it is for Nationwide to show Ms D authorised 
these payments rather than for Ms D to show she did not.
Also, because Ms Ds complaint involves the use of credit, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) covers some provisions.  Of particular relevance is the provision which says that a 
consumer is not usually liable for unauthorised transactions where the transaction involves a 
distance contract.  There are exceptions to this principle  but those exceptions dont apply 
here.
So, based on the evidence I have seen, I am satisfied the payments was authenticated.  I 
think its more likely than not that Ms D entered her credit card details into the website when 
she tried to make a payment.  But this doesnt mean she consented to the payments being 
made.
I agree with the investigator here  I dont think Ms D did consent to the payments.
My starting point is that Ms D says she did not consent.  I have no reason to doubt what she 
says.  
The evidence provided by L in response to the chargeback clearly shows it had a 
relationship with V and not Ms D.  In fact, I think this evidence tends to support Ms D. It 
doesnt follow, in my view, that just because Ms L entered her credit card details in order to 
attempt to make a payment, she was consenting to all future payments being made on this 
card.
Im afraid I dont agree with Nationwide that Ms L becomes liable for the payments because 
she accepted the terms and conditions on Ls website.  She held no relationship and no 
account with L.  She was simply trying to help a friend. I dont think Nationwide is being fair 
and reasonable.
So, on the basis that Ms D did not authorise the payments, the CCA says she cannot be 
held liable.
Turning then to the level of service provided by Nationwide.  I think Ms D is right  her 
complaint could have been dealt with differently.  Had Nationwide dealt with the complaint as 
it was made  that is a disputed transaction and not by way of a chargeback, it might have 
been able to correctly address Ms Ds concerns.  For this failure, I think it should pay her 
£100.
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should:
- refund Ms D the total sum of £1037.70
- refund any charges and fees added to the account as a result of these transactions- pay Ms D £100 for the poor service received.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman