DRN-3328260
The complaint
Mr T complains, on behalf of his company which Ill refer to as G, about Zenith Insurance 
PLCs handling of a claim against Gs commercial fleet insurance policy.
Gs policy is underwritten by Zenith. So Zenith remains responsible for all matters to do with 
claims. Other companies have handled matters on Zeniths behalf, but, as those companies 
were acting for Zenith while doing so, for ease of reading, I will only refer to Zenith in this 
decision.
What happened
One of Gs vans was in an accident when exiting a large roundabout which links some major 
roads and motorways. Mr T doesn't believe Gs driver was at fault for the accident. But as 
there was only minor damage, G didnt claim for the damage to its own van. However, the 
driver of the other car, the third party, made a claim against Gs policy. Zenith agreed to 
settle the third partys claim. 
Mr T complained on Gs behalf about Zeniths decision to settle the claim, particularly as that 
would affect Gs future insurance premiums. Zenith reviewed matters. It acknowledged that it 
had accepted the third partys claim prematurely. And it said it could have done more to 
chase a response from a witness. So it paid G £200 compensation.
Mr T didnt think that went far enough and brought Gs complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He didnt think Zenith needed to take any further action. Mr T 
didn't agree so Gs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to instruct Zenith to take any further action.
I understand that, as far as G is concerned, the third party was in the wrong lane. Thats 
because she was in the inside lane of the roundabout but continued to drive past the exit Gs 
driver was heading for from the middle lane. G believes that the third party should have been 
in the middle lane if she was continuing past the exit. So Gs argument is that the third party 
wasnt obeying the guidance in the Highway Code and so was solely to blame for the 
accident.
While I have some sympathy with that position that doesn't mean that Zenith needs to take 
any further action. I need to make clear that it's not my role to decide whos at fault for an 
accident. Nor is it my role to decide whether any rules of the road have been breached. And, 
like all motor policies, Gs policy allows Zenith to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it 
doesnt require Mr Ts consent to decide how to settle a claim and it may make a decision 
that he doesnt agree with. But Ill look to see whether or not its done so reasonably.
When reporting the incident to Zenith Mr T made G aware that there was a witness who 
would support Gs drivers version of events. Zenith did send a witness statement form to the 
witness. But he didnt initially return it. Zenith later accepted liability for the accident on Gs 
behalf. After receiving Gs complaint, Zenith reviewed the matter. By then the broker had 
provided the witness statement which supported Gs drivers version of events. At that point 
Zenith acknowledged that it should have done more to chase the witness for his statement. It 
also accepted that it had acted prematurely in accepting liability as early as it did. But it didnt 
think that helped Gs position.
The third party registered her claim against Gs policy by following an accepted protocol for 
pursuing personal injury claims. Responses to claims made in that manner have time-limits 
associated with them. And, by the time that Zenith received the witness statement from the 
broker that time-limit had already expired and Zenith had accepted liability. It couldn't then 
withdraw its liability acceptance. But I'm not persuaded things would have gone Gs way 
even if Zenith had ensured it had received the witness statement before accepting liability. 
Thats because, as far as I can tell, the circumstances for the claim don't appear to be 
disputed. That is Gs driver accepted that they were turning off the roundabout from the 
middle lane and crossing the inside lane, where Gs van and the third partys car came 
together. The witness statement agrees thats what happened, and while the witness blamed 
the third party for the accident, its not up to the witness to decide whos liable for it. So the 
issue here is who is it fair to say was at fault in these circumstances, the dispute wasnt 
about how the accident happened.
Zenith was clearly concerned that in crossing the inside lane which is where the third party 
was at the time, Gs driver had caused a collision. And, from Zeniths perspective, Gs driver 
was always going to be held  at least partially  to blame for that action. Thats because if 
Gs driver hadn't driven across the inside lane, its likely the accident wouldnt have 
happened. I understand Mr T doesn't agree with that view but in the circumstances I think its 
reasonable. 
When it reviewed its handling of the incident Zenith acknowledged that, potentially, it could 
have tried to defend the claim. But given that it felt G's driver was always going to be held 
partially to blame, it thought the absolute best it would be able to achieve would be a 50/50 
split liability decision. And while it was too late to pursue that, it wouldn't have been of help to 
G. 
Thats because, for insurance purposes, any claim that results in the policyholder being held 
in anyway liable, is considered the same as being 100% to blame. So a 50/50 decision 
would have the same effect on Gs insurance history as a liability decision holding Gs driver 
100% to blame. So, even if Zenith had done more to chase the witness for his statement or 
offered a 50/50 split liability settlement Gs position wouldnt have changed. 
I'm aware that Mr T feels that no blame should be attributable to G. But, Zenith has 
experience of dealing with such matters. And, while its acknowledged it didnt get everything 
right, I think its view that Gs driver was always likely to share some of the blame is 
reasonable. And I dont think Zenith would have offered to settle a claim it thought it had a 
reasonable prospect of defending successfully. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I'm not going to instruct Zenith to take any further action.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman