DRN-3385240
The complaint
Mr F and Mr O have complained that the insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc continued to charge 
them a premium for a conviction which was spent since 2015.
Any reference to AXA in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr F and Mr O bought a home insurance policy with AXA in August 2013 and renewed their
policy with AXA each year until 2020.
In March 2020 Mr F and Mr O complained to AXA that it had continued to charge them an
additional premium for a conviction that became spent in January 2015. They wanted a
refund of the difference in premium theyd paid with interest and compensation.
AXA said the increase in premium over the years had been fair and what they would have
charged any other customer in the same position. AXA said it removed the conviction in
December 2019 but it didnt make a difference to the premium. So it said it didnt owe Mr F
and Mr O a refund.
Mr F and Mr O brought their complaint to us. Our investigator thought AXA had acted
reasonably.
Mr O asked for evidence of the split between the premium AXA charged with the conviction
and without  to evidence it had treated them fairly.
AXA has told us it cannot provide this historical information, but its fair to say that a rating
would have applied for the conviction.
Since the investigators view, we asked AXA to show the difference in the price it would have
charged in todays terms with the conviction and without it  so that we could see what the
difference was. AXA has provided screenshots to show the price on both assumptions  and
the difference in price is around £30.
AXA said in light of the difference in quotes it was prepared to offer a refund of £120 with
interest to Mr F and Mr O to reflect the overpaid premium since 2015.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 February 2022. In light of the difference in premium of 
£30 a year, I thought AXA should provide a refund, but I thought the number of years meant 
the refund should be an extra £30 since 2015. So I thought AXA should provide a refund of 
£150 with interest to Mr F and Mr O. 
AXA accepted my provisional decision. But before doing so, it contacted Mr F and Mr O to 
forward a settlement for the lower amount of £120. 
Mr F and Mr O didnt accept my provisional decision. They dont agree that the difference in 
premium would be only £30. They believe AXA has acted illegally in overcharging them. 
So as Mr F and Mr O dont agree, the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although AXA hasnt been able to provide historic quotes, I think its more likely than not that
AXA did overcharge Mr F and Mr O in the years after the conviction was spent - looking at
the difference in quotes in todays terms. I understand Mr F and Mr O believe the difference 
in premium must have been more. But AXA has provided the available information in todays 
terms and in the absence of any other information, this is what Ive relied on when reaching 
my decision. 
AXA offered to pay £120 with interest. But this reflects four years premium from August 
2015 to August 2018 inclusive. I think the refund amount should be £30 more to include the 
premium paid at renewal in August 2019, so a total refund of £150. 
I understand Mr F and Mr O believe the change should be applied mid-term from the date 
the conviction was spent. 
Insurers set their premium price at the start of a policy year. An insurer sets out what 
changes it needs to be made aware of mid-way through a policy term in its policy wording 
and this depends on whether the change significantly affects the risk it took on at the start of 
the policy. In this case I dont think there is sufficient evidence to suggest that the change in 
the conviction being spent would materially impact on the policy mid-way, so I dont think 
AXA has been unreasonable in applying the change at the renewal date. 
I appreciate that Mr F and Mr O dont agree  and they can consider separate legal action as 
they dont have to accept my decision. But I think a fair outcome is for AXA to provide a 
refund of the difference in premium for the five years after the conviction was spent. I think 
AXA should pay interest on the refund of £150 at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from 
August 2015 to the date it pays Mr F and Mr O.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to refund the 
difference in premium of £150 to Mr F and Mr O. I require AXA to pay interest on the refund 
amount from the renewal date of 5 August 2015 to the date it pays at a rate of 8% simple 
interest a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman