DRN-2773528
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, withdrew the overdraft 
facility on her current account.
What happened
Miss E contacted Halifax to request that overdraft charges that had incurred on her current 
account be waived and reimbursed back to her account. During her conversation with 
Halifax, Miss E explained that at that time her outgoings exceeded her income, and that she 
was experiencing financial difficulty because of this. Miss E asked Halifax to put a freeze on 
the overdraft charges on her account as they had done before when she had experienced 
similar difficulties previously. 
Halifax responded to Miss Es request by withdrawing the overdraft facility from her current 
account entirely. Miss E wasnt happy about this, and she also wasnt happy that Halifax 
hadnt retained a copy of the income and expenditure information that she had given them, 
or that Halifax had called her at 8:30am. So, she made a complaint.
Halifax looked at Miss Es complaint, but they felt that their actions had been beneficial to 
Miss E, so they didnt uphold that aspect of her complaint. However, they apologised to Miss 
E for not retaining her income and expenditure information and for telephoning her at an 
early hour, and they credited £50 to Miss Es account by way of compensation for this.
Miss E wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they noted that Halifax werent obliged 
to offer an overdraft facility to Miss E and they felt that Halifax had acted with Miss Es 
interests in mind when removing that facility. Our investigator also felt that the £50 
compensation that Halifax had paid Miss E in relation to the income and expenditure form 
and the early phone call was fair and reasonable. So, they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss E remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss E has stated that she wants Halifax to reinstate her overdraft facility. However, the 
terms and conditions of Miss Es account confirm that Halifax are not obliged to offer an 
overdraft facility to current account customers and are entitled to remove any existing 
overdraft facility from a customer if they decide to do so. The relevant clauses of the current 
account terms and conditions are as follows:
11.1 When you apply, we will give you arranged overdraft terms. If we do not tell you 
how long your arranged overdraft is available, it will continue until ended by you or 
us.
11.2 An overdraft is repayable on demand. This means we can ask you to repay it 
(or part of it) at any time.
11.3 We will review your arranged overdraft regularly and can reduce or remove any 
limit based on this review. This might happen, for example, because your personal 
circumstances have changed.
However, it can be the case that an application of terms and condition without fair and due 
consideration of the circumstances of the customer involved can lead to an unfair outcome 
resulting for that customer, and its within the remit of this service to instruct a business to 
take corrective action on such occasions.
For me to consider such an instruction, Id need to be satisfied that the customer had 
suffered some form of financial loss or ongoing detriment, such that it was clear that the 
actions of the business, and their application of the relevant terms and conditions, had 
unfairly caused this loss or detriment.
Im not convinced that thats the case here. Indeed, from the evidence available to me, it 
appears that in removing the overdraft facility from Miss Es account, Halifax have put Miss E 
in a better financial position than that which she was in before. 
I say this because Miss E had an agreed overdraft limit of £360, and at the time that Halifax 
removed the overdraft facility Miss E was overdrawn on her account by approximately £235. 
This meant that Miss E had a remaining arranged overdraft facility of £125 available to her, 
before she reached the £360 overdraft limit.
In removing Miss Es overdraft facility, Halifax made the decision to credit Miss Es account 
with £360  the same amount as the limit of her overdraft. This meant that Halifax effectively 
gave Miss E £360 of free money. And the result of this was that Miss Es account ended up 
approximately £125 in credit. This meant that instead of being £235 overdrawn  and 
effectively £235 in debt to Halifax  Miss E now had a balance of £125 credit and was no 
longer overdrawn or indebted.
Its clear then that Halifaxs actions here put Miss E in a better financial position than she 
was in previously. And Halifax have explained that the reason they took this course of action, 
including the subsequent removal of the overdraft facility, was to ensure that Miss E didnt 
have the possibility of overdraft charges being incurred moving forwards, but wasnt placed 
in the position of having a lower available balance in her account following the overdraft 
facility being removed.
Its difficult not to conclude that Halifaxs actions here are generous to Miss E and that that 
they were made with Miss Es best interests in mind. And, while Miss E would like the 
overdraft facility to be restored, its acknowledged by this service that Halifax are under no 
obligation to offer this facility to Miss E. And given that no financial loss or detriment has 
occurred, asking Halifax to reinstate the overdraft facility isnt an instruction I would be 
prepared to consider at this time.
Miss E is also unhappy that Halifax didnt retain her income and expenditure information and 
that they telephoned her at an early hour. Halifax have apologised to Miss E for these points 
and made a payment of £50 to Miss E by way of compensation. This feels fair to me, and I 
note that its commensurate with what this service would expect in similar circumstances.All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Halifax have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
Halifax to take any further action at this time.
I hope that Miss E can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman