DRN-3499255
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim he made under his home 
insurance policy for lost jewellery.
Reference to Fairmead includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr M got in touch with Fairmead after he discovered his wifes ring had been lost. I 
understand she was away from the home and it had become painful for her to wear 
the ring. She put it in her pocket but, when she returned home, it wasnt there any 
longer and couldnt be found.
Fairmead declined the claim. It relied on a policy term which, in summary, required 
the ring to be worn, deposited somewhere safe, or carried by hand. It didnt think this 
term had been met as the ring wasnt being carried by hand.
Mr M didnt think this was fair. He said Fairmead had misinterpreted the policy term. 
And if it were to be interpreted as Fairmead would like to, it would be unenforceable 
as it places an unreasonable burden on the policyholder.
Our investigator thought Fairmead had declined the claim fairly. He agreed the policy 
term could have been clearer but didnt think carrying the ring in a pocket could 
reasonably be described as carrying it by hand.
Mr M disagreed, so his complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers lost jewellery, subject to a number of terms and conditions. Amongst them 
is a jewellery clause which says cover is only provided when the item is being worn, 
deposited in a bank or hotel safe, or carried by hand. Its the last of these points thats 
relevant here. So I wont be considering the first two points or other parts of the clause.
Mr M has said it would be unfair for Fairmead to rely on what it intended the clause to mean.  
I agree, the contract of insurance is based on what the clause says  not what Fairmead 
meant it to say. And where theres ambiguity in the meaning of a policy clause, it may be 
interpreted in the policyholders favour  but it must still be a reasonable interpretation. A 
clause being ambiguous doesnt mean the clause can be entirely disregarded.
The phrase carried by hand isnt defined in the policy. So it should be interpreted as having 
its ordinary, everyday meaning.
Fairmead thinks the phrase should be taken quite literally and mean carrying it in your 
hand. Mr M considers it should be interpreted more broadly and mean carrying it about your 
person. Hes given examples, including putting an item in a vehicle or overhead locker on a 
plane, that he thinks would commonly be seen as carrying something by hand.
Ive thought about the ways the phrase is commonly used, alongside the dictionary 
definitions and examples Mr M has provided.
Doing something by hand generally means a person is closely and actively involved in a 
task. It may involve them using their hands directly or by controlling a tool or another item.
Im not persuaded that carrying a ring in a pocket amounts to carrying it by hand. Its not 
directly in the hand and nor is it more broadly being controlled by hand. For that reason, Im 
satisfied Fairmead acted reasonably when it declined the claim.
Mr M has said the clause places an unreasonable burden on the policyholder, is 
fundamentally unfair, and so its unenforceable.
Im not persuaded the clause is inherently unfair or unenforceable. I think it places a 
significant burden on the policyholder and is a significant restriction to cover. Because of 
that, Id expect Fairmead to appropriately highlight it to the policyholder when selling the 
policy. That would give the policyholder the opportunity to ensure it was a burden they were 
aware of, could fulfil, and the policy was suitable for their needs, despite the restriction.
Im satisfied Fairmead has appropriately highlighted the term to Mr M. It is one of several set 
out in a policy schedule provided to Mr M and theres no suggestion he didnt receive it.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman