DRN-4311893
The complaint
Mrs M and Miss R as trustees of the M Trust have complained that Vitality Life Limited 
declined its claim and cancelled the policy.
What happened
Very sadly Mr M passed away and the trustees claimed on the policy. The background to 
this matter is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it in detail here. In summary Vitality 
said that Mr M failed to disclose material information when applying for the policy. It says 
that if he had done so the policy wouldnt have been offered. It cancelled the policy and 
refunded the premiums paid. Mrs M, on behalf of the estate disputes this and referred the 
complaint here.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. He didnt find that Vitality 
had done anything wrong. 
Mrs M on behalf of the estate appealed. She didnt agree that Mr M had failed to take 
reasonable care when taking out the policy and explained why.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly though, Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy 
is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the complete file. Having done so I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
Mr M applied for the policy on 5 September 2017. He did so as previously hed had cover 
with his employer, but he started a new job and life cover wasnt provided. He was asked 
several questions about his medical history. These included:
Apart from any condition you have already told us about, have you had any of the following 
in the last 5 years:
Any disorder of the digestive system, liver, stomach, oesophagus, pancreas, colon or bowel, 
including Gastric ulcer, Hepatitis, Pancreatitis, Colitis or Crohn's disease? Ignore minor 
indigestion, heartburn, appendicitis (operated and fully recovered) or irritable bowel 
syndrome (IBS) that only cause occasional mild discomfort and for which you have not 
required investigation or hospital referral and none are planned.
And
Apart from anything you have already told us about in this form, do you have any impairment 
or medical complaints that you intend seeking medical advice for, or are you currently 
awaiting the results of any investigations?
Mr M had answered no to these questions. Vitality say he should have answered 
affirmatively. Ive looked carefully at the medical evidence and the representations made by 
Mrs M following our investigators view in order to determine whether Vitalitys finding that Mr 
M failed to take reasonable care when answering the questions differently was fair.
Mr M had seen his GP three times in August 2017 as he was suffering from abdominal pain 
and vomiting. I accept that he didnt know exactly what his medical problem was. I take on 
board Mrs Ms point that he would not have been familiar with medical terminology. However 
he had been to his GP on three occasions in the month before taking out the policy with 
stomach issues and been referred for investigation. 
In the third week of August a mass was identified and an urgent ultrasound was arranged. 
This was in the main to exclude aortic aneurysm as Mr M had a family history. Mrs M has 
said that Mr M wasnt informed of the suspected mass, he believed the ultrasound was just 
to rule out an embolism or aneurysm. Even though the result had been reported as normal, 
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Vitality to conclude that he should have answered the 
first question above affirmatively. 
Then the day before he applied for the policy Mr M returned to his GP, he was still suffering 
with abdominal pain. It was agreed that Mr M would trial some treatment for stomach 
inflammation or gastritis and provide a stool sample to test for H pylori. Mr M agreed to an 
ultrasound of the abdomen if there was no progress.  So no conclusions had been reached 
as to the cause of Mr Ms condition, and as Mrs M accepts, there was to be ongoing 
assessment. 
I find that the questions asked were clear and in all the circumstances I find it was 
reasonable for Vitality to conclude that Mr M failed to take reasonable care when answering 
them. I note that Mr M had undergone a health check just before the start of the policy, but 
this wasnt part of the underwriting process. The policy was offered on standard terms.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. Vitality has provided underwriting evidence which 
demonstrates that had Mr M answered the questions correctly it would not have offered 
cover when it did. Accordingly Im satisfied it would have acted differently and therefore the 
misrepresentation is qualifying. Vitality has classified it as a careless misrepresentation, 
rather than deliberate or reckless, and I think that is fair. There is nothing to suggest that Mr 
M deliberately withheld the correct information. Vitality has voided the policy and refunded 
the premiums paid  that is in line with the remedies set out in CIDRA.
I recognise my decision will be very disappointing to Mrs M and Miss R, but I dont find that 
Vitality has done anything wrong, treated the trust unfairly, contrary to the policy terms or to 
law. It follows that there is no basis for me to require Vitality to pay the trusts claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Miss R 
as trustees of the M Trust to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman