DRN-2581166
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy at the time it took for Vanquis Bank Limited to close his account. Hed like 
an apology and compensation.
What happened
Mr C had a bank account with Vanquis. On 18 September he contacted Vanquis to ask it to 
close his account. Vanquis replied on 23 September asking for Mr Cs date of birth to 
compete its security steps. Mr C replied that day with the information required.
Mr C says that he didnt hear anything further from Vanquis until 1 October when it asked 
him for the same information hed already provided. He says, despite several calls, Vanquis 
didnt close his account until 9 October. Mr C complains that it took 5 weeks, and several 
requests, for Vanquis to close his account which he considers was too long. And during this 
time his card and account security was at risk. He asked for an explanation, an apology and 
compensation.
Vanquis agreed that thered been a delay in responding to Mr Cs message of 23 
September. It apologised for that and offered £25 compensation. However, it said it hadnt 
been able to process Mr Cs instructions until hed confirmed his security details as 
requested in its message of 1 October so it didnt feel it was responsible for the delay after 
that. It said it had closed the account on 9 October once Mr C had provided the information it 
had asked for.
Our investigator felt Vanquis had dealt with the complaint fairly, including offering 
compensation for its delay, so she didnt feel it needed to do anything more. 
Mr C disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He didnt feel 
the investigator had taken account of the calls hed had with Vanquis where hed provided 
the security details on at least 2 occasions  or that in the time waiting for the account to be 
closed, it had been at risk of fraud or unauthorised use. In addition, he queried why it had 
taken 5 days for Vanquis to respond to his text of 18 September and felt it should have 
contacted him sooner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres no information on any particular point, or the information available is 
incomplete or unclear, Ive looked at what more likely than not in the circumstances of the 
case and made my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive seen that in his submissions, Mr C has referred to two calls between him and Vanquis. 
Ive reviewed the account notes and can see that there were 2 calls on 17 September but it 
appears the calls were terminated by Mr C and theres no record of what was discussed.  In 
the circumstances I dont have any information to show that Mr C requested the account 
closure before the text of 18 September so I think its reasonable to take that as the effective 
date.
 Having done so, I can see Mr C made his request on 18 September and Vanquis replied on 
23 September. Although this was 5 days later, I note that this included a weekend so I dont 
feel the time taken was unreasonable.
There was then a delay between 23 September and 1 October, as Vanquis has 
acknowledged. But when Vanquis contacted Mr C on that date, it explained it needed him to 
re-confirm his security information as it had been some days since hed last provided them. 
Mr C refused and, instead, suggested Vanquis should rely on what hed already said.
I can appreciate Mr Cs frustration at this point but I dont think it was unreasonable of 
Vanquis to want to check Mr Cs security information before it took any further action. These 
security measures are part of the banks regulatory requirements and are in place to protect 
both the customer and the bank. I can see Mr C was asked twice more, on 1 and 3 October, 
to provide this information but declined. In the circumstances, I cant reasonably criticise 
Vanquis for not being able to take any further action at this time as it wasnt able to do so 
until Mr C completed the security check. Once he provided the information on 9 October, 
however, Vanquis closed his account and confirmed this in writing the same day and I think 
that was reasonable. 
I note Mr C has said that, while he was waiting for his account to be closed, his account was 
at risk of fraud. Ive taken these concerns into account but when Mr C asked to close his 
account, he didnt say he felt his account had been compromised in any way. If that was the 
case then Mr C could have contacted the fraud department so that action could be taken to 
protect his account, even before the account was closed. As Mr C didnt do so, Vanquis had 
no reason to think there was a problem and I cant reasonably criticise it for that.
I realise Mr C remains dissatisfied with the way Vanquis dealt with his request, and with his 
complaint. However, Vanquis acknowledged its delay in in responding to Mr C between 23 
September and 1 October for which its apologised and paid £25 compensation. I think thats 
reasonable and fairly reflects the impact of this delay on Mr C. For that reason, I wont be 
asking Vanquis to do anything more to resolve this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman