DRN-2443833
The complaint
Mr P complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles defaulted his credit card and sold it to a
third party even though he had agreed a payment arrangement.
What happened
The details of my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional decision. In my provisional 
decision I explained why I didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. I said: 
What happened
Mr P opened a credit card with Marbles in August 2016. The account fell into arrears and in
March 2017 a default notice was sent to Mr P.
In June 2017 Marbles instructed a third party business (B) to administer the account and try
to get agreement for the arrears to be repaid.
On 25 September 2018 Mr P agreed a payment arrangement with B. The payment
arrangement was confirmed in writing on 27 September 2018. Bs letter said that it had
accepted a payment arrangement of £3.27 a month and that the first payment was due by
25 October 2018. Bs letter went on to explain that, providing payments were made on time,
the arrangement would be reviewed in six months.
In October 2018 Marbles says it took the decision to default and sell Mr Ps account. Marbles
says that decision was made due to the level of arrears. On 23 October 2018 Marbles closed
Mr Ps account. After the debt was transferred to the new owner it reported a default date of
24 October 2018.
B received Mr Ps first payment of £3.27 on 26 October 2018. But by this point the account
had already been sold and defaulted. Mr P complained to Marbles and B. Marbles
responded to Mr Ps complaint on 4 November 2019 and said Mr P should refer his concerns
to B if he feels the advice he was given on 25 September 2018 was wrong.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought
Marbles had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr P asked
to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Marbles referred Mr P back to its agents, B, to raise any concerns he has about the payment 
arrangement he agreed. But Marbles instructed B to act on its behalf and seek recovery of 
its debt from Mr P. So, Marbles had to make sure B treated Mr P fairly while pursuing the 
debt.
Marbles says that the decision to close and default an account isnt impacted by a payment
arrangement agreed with the borrower. In general, where a payment arrangement is agreed
and maintained, I wouldnt expect a business to default the account. Guidance issued by the
Information Commissioners Office says, when such arrangements are made and
maintained a default will not be recorded. I dont agree with Marbles claim that an active
payment arrangement wouldnt have been a barrier to fairly defaulting Mr Ps account.
Marbles closed Mr Ps account on 23 October 2018 and sold it to another business which
then reported the default from 24 October 2018 onwards. Mr P says thats unfair because he
had a payment arrangement in place. As Ive quoted above, the guidance says that where a
payment arrangement is agreed and maintained, a default should not be recorded.
The issue here is that Mr Ps payment arrangement agreed he would make a payment of
£3.27 on 25 October 2018. Marbles has provided evidence to show that B didnt receive
Mr Ps first payment until 26 October 2018 (a day late) and says that, as a result, the terms
of the payment arrangement were broken.
I appreciate my decision will feel harsh to Mr P as I agree that the order in which Marbles
acted wasnt right. But, as the first payment due under the payment arrangement wasnt
made until 26 October 2018, I think it can reasonably be argued to have failed. Theres no
obligation on a lender to extend the deadlines and I can see that Mr Ps account had been in
arrears for a reasonable period by this point.
Ultimately, as the first payment was made a day late, Im satisfied Marbles would have
closed and defaulted Mr Ps account in any case. That means Mr P is in broadly the same
position  with the account being closed and defaulted and the debt sold to a third party.
I agree that Marbles could have been clearer but I havent found Mr P is in a worse position
as a result of the way it handled his account. The evidence Ive seen shows the first payment
was late which would have given Marbles grounds to close and default the account. Marbles
has confirmed that if Mr Ps account hadnt already been closed and sold it wouldve taken
that step after the first payment was made late. Overall, I havent found that Mr P has been
unfairly impacted by Marbles actions so I dont intend to tell it to do anything else.
Im conscious that Marbles and the basis on which Ive made my decision differs from the
investigator. Ive issued a provisional decision to allow Mr P and Marbles to send me any
additional comments or information they would like me to consider before I make my final
decision.
Mr P responded with details of why he feels the default dated 24 October 2018 should be 
removed from his credit file. In brief, Mr P said: 
- The impact of the default will last a long time and damage his credit file. 
- A default shouldnt be reported if the lender makes any errors and Marbles failed to 
follow the correct process. 
- The account was closed and sold before the default was registered.
- Whether Mr Ps payment due under the payment arrangement was made on time 
didnt matter as Marbles defaulted his account anyway.
- Its not relevant that the first payment made under the payment arrangement was 
received late by Marbles. 
- Its unclear why the payment wasnt received on time.
- The date used for the default isnt accurate.
- The Information Commissioners Office has offered to investigate a complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr P for the level of detail given in his response. Ive summarised what Mr P 
said but I want to assure him that Ive read and considered everything hes said both in his 
original submissions and in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr P has said that a default shouldnt be reported if Marbles failed to follow the right process. 
But a default is intended to show the relationship between a borrower and lender has broken 
down and that payments havent been maintained as agreed. So Ive considered whether, 
accepting that Marbles failed to follow the right process, the default should stand. As a 
service, we deal with complaints on a fair and reasonable basis and try to put the consumer 
into the position they would have been in had no error been made. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I havent been persuaded that Marbles errors impacted 
Mr Ps situation. I wont repeat my provisional decision again as its quoted above, but I 
remain of the view that Mr Ps payment arrangement would have failed as the first payment 
wasnt received on the agreed date. Marbles has told us it wouldve defaulted Mr Ps account 
on that basis if it hadnt been sold. I still think thats the case, for the same reasons. 
Mr P has also questioned whether the payment was late as he believes it was made on time. 
But Im satisfied the evidence shows the payment wasnt received on 25 October 2018 as 
agreed. The evidence shows the payment was received by Marbles agent on 26 October 
2018, which is later than the payment arrangement Mr P agreed. I appreciate my decision 
may feel harsh, but I remain of the view that the payment arrangement would have failed 
because Mr Ps first payment was made late. 
Mr P says the date of the default isnt accurate and that it should be back dated to June 
2017. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but Im satisfied the default date Marbles has used is fair 
and in line with the payments made, collections activity and industry guidelines. 
Mr P has responded to say the Information Commissioners Office has told him to refer a 
complaint about Marbles actions. Mr P is free to decide whether to refer a complaint to the 
Information Commissioners Office. 
Whilst I accept Marbles didnt follow the right process, for the reasons given above and in my 
provisional decision, I havent found that Mr Ps position has been unfairly impacted. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr P but I havent been persuaded to change my view of his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman