DRN-3116179
The complaint
Mrs H complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to her alongside a credit card in 2009. 
What happened
In or around 2012, Mrs H complained to MBNA that it had mis-sold PPI to her. A final 
response letter was issued on 8 March 2012 in which MBNA said it didnt agree PPI had 
been mis-sold. On 19 September 2014, it looks as though MBNA reviewed its initial 
conclusion on Mrs Hs complaint. MBNA confirmed its decision not to uphold the complaint, 
but it gave fuller reasons for its decision as to why it didnt believe PPI had been mis-sold.
 
It looks as though Mrs H instructed her current representatives in or around May 2017. On 
15 September 2017, MBNA wrote to the representatives to say that it hadnt told Mrs H 
about a high level of commission and profit share it received from her PPI premiums. And it 
offered to pay back a proportion of her premiums because of that. 
Mrs H complained to this service. She thought the PPI had been mis-sold and she didnt 
think the offer MBNA made in respect of commission and profit share was fair. MBNA said it 
didnt agree to us looking at the mis-sale part of the complaint because it had been brought 
too late. It did not dispute that the commission part of the complaint had been brought within 
the time limits for this service. 
Our adjudicator also thought the mis-sale complaint had been brought too late, and that the 
offer MBNA made in respect of commission was a fair way to settle the complaint. Through 
her representative, Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. No new or additional 
points were raised, but the same complaint points and arguments previously made were 
reiterated. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that I 
cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more than six months after the business 
sends the consumer its final response letter, unless the business in question consents to me 
doing so. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1) and it can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
It looks to me as though MBNA sent Mrs H two final response letters dealing with the alleged 
mis-sale of PPI  one in March 2012 and another in September 2014. I say this because 
both letters set out the reasons why MBNA was rejecting the complaint and both letters told 
Mrs H how she should refer her complaint to this service if she did not accept MBNAs 
decision. So I have taken the second final response letter of 19 September 2014 to be the 
date upon which the six month time limit started to run for the mis-sale aspect of the 
complaint. 
That being so, Mrs H had until 19 March 2015 to bring her complaint to this service. 
However, she did not bring her complaint until January 2018. So the mis-sale complaint is 
out of time under the rules I have to apply. 
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. But those 
representing Mrs H didnt provide me with any information about why the complaint was 
referred late. Instead, they inferred that the letter of 15 September 2017 was the final 
response letter, and that they had referred the complaint to us within six months of that. But 
that response was about the amount of commission Mrs H paid in respect of PPI. It wasnt 
about the alleged mis-sale. 
On that basis, and in the absence of any further evidence, I cant say exceptional 
circumstances apply in this case.  So Im sorry that were unable to help Mrs H with the 
complaint about how this policy was sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided MBNA should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
MBNA didnt tell Mrs H about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
MBNA and Mrs H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
MBNA didnt disclose the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think MBNA acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs H because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIm now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Hs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs H should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: MBNA failed to tell Mrs H about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs H wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mrs H in order to remedy the unfairness caused by MBNA not disclosing 
the high level of commission before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Hs representative suggests, driven to conclude that [he/she/they] 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for MBNAs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for MBNA to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs H paid for the PPI policy -  I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that MBNAs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Im unable to consider Mrs Hs complaint about how this policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that MBNA 
Limited should pay Mrs H an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in 
excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman