DRN-4332748
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) cancelled her car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs G had a car insurance policy with Skyfire that started in March 2022.
She paid an initial deposit amount, then monthly instalments using Direct Debit.
Skyfire had to request payment twice for her monthly instalments each month from April to 
June.
In July, it also experienced problems collecting payment. It emailed Mrs G on 3 August and 
told her it would cancel her policy in 14 days if it couldnt collect the missing instalment.
Mrs G says she didnt receive the email telling her this.
Skyfire cancelled the policy and confirmed this by emailing to Mrs G. She had been away on 
holiday. She received the email when she returned to the UK, and this was after the policy 
had been cancelled. She complained to Skyfire. It said it would waive its cancellation fee but 
it said it thought it had acted fairly.
Mrs G brought her complaint to this service. She says she had to take out another policy at 
short notice which had cost her more. Our investigator looked into Mrs Gs complaint and 
thought it wouldnt be upheld. He thought Skyfire had acted fairly and had reasonably told 
her what it was going to do.
Mrs G didnt agree with the view. Because she didnt agree, this complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why as I appreciate this 
will be a disappointment to her.
Mrs G has told this service that her account had the correct amount in it at the correct time. 
Skyfire has also said it tried to collect the instalment and requested payment from Mrs Gs 
bank.
In later correspondence with this service Mrs G has also said shed repeatedly tried to 
change the date payment was taken from the account by Skyfire. Shes also mentioned the 
poor quality and inconsistency of the information Skyfire sent her. I cant see that shes 
raised this as a specific issue in her complaint, or that Skyfire has responded to it, so Im not 
able to consider it further here. 
Skyfire has also sent this service copies of the relevant correspondence it sent Mrs G and I 
can see the email it sent her telling her that her account was missing a payment and that it 
would cancel her policy if it wasnt received. It had also sent a text message to her phone 
telling her it had sent her an important email about the July missed payment.
Mrs G has said she cant find that email and has questioned whether it was sent. But Skyfire 
supplied the email to this service, and Ive seen no evidence to say it wasnt sent.
Under its policy terms and conditions, Skyfire is able to cancel Mrs Gs policy with seven 
days notice. 
I think Mrs G reasonably had time to make payment to Skyfire, or at very least contact it to 
make it aware. Mrs G has told this service she was on holiday around this time, but given the 
payment issues shed had over the course of the previous few months I dont think its 
unreasonable to say I think she needed to keep a close eye on her account to be able to 
check that the payments had been made to Skyfire.
In her correspondence with this service, Mrs G has raised previous decisions made by an 
ombudsman at this service as examples of times when an insurer has cancelled policies 
unreasonably. Ive looked at the cases shes mentioned and they dont necessarily relate to 
what went on between Mrs G and Skyfire. This service reviews complaints on a case-by-
case basis. Having looked at the file of evidence, I think Skyfire acted reasonably in the way 
it tried to contact Mrs G, and the way it then moved to cancel her policy.
Taking everything into account, under its terms and conditions Skyfire are allowed to cancel 
Mrs Gs policy, regardless of the situation with Mrs Gs payments. It did this with 14 days 
notice rather than seven, so I think it acted fairly and it reasonably told her what would 
happen if it didnt receive payment. 
I can also see Skyfire waived the cancellation change when it sent Mrs G its final response 
and I think this is fair and reasonable. 
I cant say Skyfire has acted unreasonably and so I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman