DRN-3929728
The complaint
Mrs J complains Jones Finance Company (Jones) provided her with loans that she couldnt 
afford to repay.
What happened
Mrs J has complained about 17 loans advanced between May 2018 and January 2022. A
summary of Mrs Js borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Jones, can be
found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
instalmentsweekly 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 23/05/2018 11/09/2018 20 £16.00
2 £200.00 12/09/2018 09/01/2019 20 £16.00
3 £100.00 16/10/2018 26/02/2019 20 £8.00
4 £200.00 09/01/2019 23/04/2019 20 £16.00
5 £100.00 26/02/2019 16/07/2019 20 £8.00
6 £200.00 23/04/2019 13/08/2019 20 £16.00
7 £100.00 16/07/2019 03/12/2019 20 £8.00
8 £200.00 13/08/2019 31/12/2019 20 £16.00
9 £100.00 03/12/2019 21/04/2020 20 £8.00
10 £200.00 14/01/2020 02/06/2020 20 £16.00
11 £300.00 12/06/2020 10/11/2020 20 £24.00
12 £500.00 08/12/2020 13/04/2021 20 £40.00
13 £300.00 09/02/2021 08/06/2021 20 £24.00
14 £500.00 13/04/2021 20/07/2021 20 £40.00
15 £600.00 20/10/2021 outstanding 20 £48.00
16 £250.00 30/11/2021 outstanding 20 £20.00
17 £300.00 05/01/2022 outstanding 20 £24.00
The weekly repayment column is the cost per loan per week. Where loans overlapped the
cost per week wouldve been greater, so for example, Mrs J was due to repay Jones £24
per week when loans two and three were running concurrently. Mrs Js highest weekly
repayment was £92 when loans 15  17 were running.
Mrs J has had some problems repaying her final three loans and Jones says an outstanding
balance remains due.
After Mrs J complained to Jones it issued its final response letter (FRL) in August 2022. It
concluded.
Regarding Irresponsible Lending the finance you obtained was within the affordability
you provided. We know that your circumstances have changed and hence with
forbearance we accepted a period of no payment
I would also add there that Im not entirely convinced the FRL sent to Mrs J is a FRL as
defined by CONC 1.6.2 because for example no referral rights were provided to her. In any
event, notwithstanding these concerns this hasnt impeded the progress of the complaint.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs J referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator reviewed Mrs Js irresponsible lending complaint and he thought the
complaint should be upheld in part.
The adjudicator explained that Jones had treated Mrs J fairly when it approved loans 1  4.
So, he didnt uphold the complaint about these loans.
The adjudicator also concluded that for loans 5  9 Jones ought to have been carrying out
further checks to confirm the information Mrs J was providing. Jones couldve done this a
number of ways, such as asking for copies of her bank statements. While the adjudicators
didnt think further checks were carried out, as Mrs J hadnt provided her bank statements
(or any other documentation) he wasnt able to say what Jones may have seen, had it made
better checks. Loans 5  9 were also not upheld by the adjudicator.
He then went on to explain that Jones had an obligation to make sure the lending wasnt
unsustainable or harmful for Mrs J. Thinking about that and looking at the overall lending
pattern the adjudicator was now satisfied that the lending was harmful for Mrs J by the time
loan 10 was advanced. So, this loan and all remaining loans were upheld.
Mrs J appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings.
Jones didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. Ive read in full what has been
provided and Ive summarised Jones responses below;
Further guidance was requested about breaks in lending and when they ought to 
occur (it has been suggested this ought to be around 16 months).
Further income and expenses forms were provided for when loan 11 was granted. 
Jones went on to say this loan was completed at the end of the first COVID-19 
lockdown and at the time Mrs J didnt have any other loans.
Jones provided detail notes about the contact with Mrs J since February 2022, the 
missed payments and her circumstances at the time.
Jones is aware of a change in circumstances for Mrs J and that is why since July 
2022 it has shown extreme forbearance by agreeing a payment freeze.
Overall, Jones says the lending was affordable and Mrs J confirmed she could afford 
her commitments.
In addition to its comments, Jones provided further documentation.
Jones provided a document detailing Mrs Js circumstance at each loan (between 10
and 17) and what checks were done when these loans were approved.
A spreadsheet containing details of the loans, highlighting breaks that it considered
were relevant and provided reasons why Mrs J wanted loans 10  17.
A customer update form  dated 12 June 2020  for when loan 11 was granted. This
showed, Mrs J has confirmed she didnt have any outstanding loans at the time.
An income and expenditure form, showing benefit payments of £960 a month and
that she had no outgoings  as these were covered by her husband apart from £50
per week on food.
Finally, Mrs J has, at the start of 2023, provided to us a copy of a recently completed budgetform which has been compiled by a well-known debt advice charity.
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me and I issued a provisional 
decision. I was intending to reach the same outcome as the one reached by the adjudicator, 
but I provided further details as to why, upholding loans 10  17 was the fair and reasonable 
outcome for the complaint. 
Both parties were asked to provide any further information, evidence or comment for 
consideration as soon as possible, but in any event, no later than 27 January 2023. 
Jones emailed the Financial Ombudsman Service agreeing with the proposed outcome 
which was outlined in the provisional decision. It also attached its settlement calculations 
based on the loans that were being upheld  the refund on the day it was produced comes to 
around £1,383.93.
Mrs J provided some details of an extremely sad situation surrounding the passing of both 
her sister and her mum ad the costs that were involved in visiting Mrs Js late sister in 
hospital as well as the funeral costs for both relatives. She also says that Jones was aware 
of this due to her late mum also being a customer. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in a smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may help, and for clarity for all parties concerned, that I outline the legal and regulatory
environment when the lending was approved. So below Ive outlined what I consider to be
the key regulatory requirements on the part of Jones before providing the lending.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Jones gave Mrs J all the above loans after the regulation of Consumer Credit Licensees had
transferred to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014.
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised
Firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R.
And the most relevant overarching principle here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit
providers, such as Jones. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible
lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a
regulated agreement.
The starting point for the relevant rules in this case is Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC which sets
out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer credit of this type. These
rules were subsequently updated into CONC 5.2A but this didnt occur until November 2018,
which is after some of these loans were approved. However, the wording of 5.2A while
slightly different to CONC 5.2.1R(2) didnt significantly change Jones regulatory obligation.
So, the wording of the rules applicable to the lending for Mrs J is a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to
adversely impact the customers financial situation, taking into account theinformation of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2.3 then details and outlines some of the factors that may be relevant to a lender
when deciding what a proportionate check may look like for each loan application.
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required
by CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case, should be dependent upon and proportionate to
factors which may include one or more of the following:
(1) the type of credit;
(2) the amount of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;
(5) the customer's credit history, including any indications that the customer is
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties;
(6) the customer's existing financial commitments including any repayments due in
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated mortgage
contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications, water
and other major outgoings known to the firm;
(7) any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to have
a significant financial adverse impact on the customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands
the customer has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this
to be so because the customer displays indications of some form of mental capacity
limitation (see CONC 2.10).
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances
dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the
potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates
to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the
customers financial situation.
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking
about affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the
customers ability to repay the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1)
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse
consequences.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the
customerCONC 5.3.1G(6) also provides guidance, that beyond the loan being pounds and pence
affordable the loan also has to be sustainable. It states:
(6) For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the
regulated credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been
truthful in completing the application in relation to information supplied by the
customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by
CONC 5.2.2R (1).
On 6 March 2019, The FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer of all
firms allocated to the High Cost Lenders portfolio, which Jones is part of. This letter was
published after loans 1  5 were entered into. This letter didnt include any new rules
but deals with how firms ought to be handling complaints about whether their previous
lending was unaffordable. I do think that this offers some insight on the FCAs approach on
its rules and guidance. So, I consider it to be of relevance in this case.
The letter sets out the FCAs view of the key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to
consumers and the markets they operate in. On page two of this letter, the FCA sets out its
view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we
analysed their strategies and business models. We considered a wide range of
information and data, including firms regulatory histories, the number and nature of
complaints, and findings from the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on
guarantor lenders, which involved issuing a data request to firms in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across
the High Cost Lenders portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending
patterns
firms affordability checks may be insufficient, leading to loans that customers may
not be able to afford.
The FCA sets out its areas of focus for all firms in the portfolio on page three of the letter.
The section entitled Relending says:
Relending: We have seen a high volume of relending across all credit products in
the portfolio. We aim to carry out diagnostic work across the portfolio so that we can
better understand the motivation for, and impact of, relending on both consumers and
firms. This work will examine aspects of relending such as customers borrowing
journeys, firms marketing strategies for offering additional credit and the costs of
relending for consumers. We want to understand what harm, if any, relending may
cause consumers. As part of this work, we will proactively engage with home-
collected credit firms to ensure they understand our expectations. We will also
discuss any changes to their processes as a result of the new rules and guidance onrelending which we issued in our December 2018 Policy Statement on high-cost
credit.
The section entitled Affordability says:
Affordability: We recognise that there is an inherent challenge for these firms in
assessing affordability for both new loans and repeat borrowing. High-cost credit
customers finances are often squeezed and they may have poor credit histories and
low financial resilience. Nevertheless, firms must ensure that they are complying with
all our affordability requirements. We gave an outline of these requirements in the
Dear CEO letter we sent to HCSTC firms in October 2018. While this letter was
aimed at HCSTC firms, the main principles are relevant to all firms in this portfolio.
Finally, under the section entitled Complaints it says:
Complaints: We know that there have been increasing numbers of complaints about
many of the products in this portfolio. Firms should ensure that they are handling
complaints appropriately. We expect firms to fulfil all relevant obligations, including
analysing the root causes of complaints and taking into account the Financial
Ombudsman Services relevant decisions. We gave further detail about what we
expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in the Dear CEO letter we issued
to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to all firms in the portfolio.
I accept that this letter, refers to high-cost short term lenders, which Jones isnt one. But
I think it is useful to see how the FCA looked at some of the issues. Turning to the Dear
CEO letter issued by the FCA on 15 October 2018, which was mentioned in the
Affordability section of the March 2019 FCA letter.
We note that the Ombudsman has recently published four examples of
determinations of individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach
to the issues raised in those complaints (see: https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm). If relevant, firms should take these
examples of determinations into account as part of establishing their own effective
procedures for complaints handling (see DISP 1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were
flagged in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014, in which we said that we
were concerned that repeat borrowing could indicate a pattern of dependency on
HCSTC that is harmful to the borrower. We noted that rigorous affordability
assessments were key to avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they
are making responsible assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
The above, are the rules and guidance that Im considering when thinking about whether
Jones did anything wrong when it lent to Mrs J.
Questions for me to consider before deciding whether Jones did anything wrong when it
provided Mrs J with her loans.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing in mind everything that Ive set out above and our long-established approach to
considering these types of complaints (which is also set out on our website), I think the
overarching questions, I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Jones, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy
itself that Mrs J would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would thosechecks have shown that Mrs J wouldve been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point
where Jones ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Js
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt
have provided further credit?
Did Jones act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Jones did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs J and that
she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Jones, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mrs J would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
It is important to note the FCA at the time, didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how an
assessment of affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and
sources of information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the
sustainability of the arrangement for the consumer. Although, the previous Office of Fair
Trading guidance does provide some examples of information a lender may wish to use.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of the lending
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of
creditworthiness would likely need to be adaptable to the individual needs and
circumstances of a consumer. That is to say, what is sufficient for one consumer might not
be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance might
not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with
the circumstance of each request for credit. In general, Id expect a lender to require more
assurance, the greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit
in a sustainable way.
But, certain factors might point to the fact that Jones should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs J. These factors include, but are
not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of credit agreements, and the longer the
period of time during which a customer has been given the credit (reflecting the risk
that ongoing use of these agreements may signal that the borrowing had become, or
was becoming, unsustainable).
It seems for each loan Jones wouldve asked Mrs J for details of her income and expenditure
for its assessment of whether to lend. It seems no other checks such as a credit search was
carried out before approving these loans.
Loans 1  4
The adjudicator didnt uphold these loans because he hadnt seen enough to make him think
that Jones had acted unreasonably when it approved these loans. As both Jones and Mrs J
have agreed with the adjudicators assessment about these loans they no longer appear tobe in dispute.
But for completeness, given the number of loans, the amounts borrowed and what Jones
knew about Mrs Js circumstances at the time, I also agree a reasonable decision was taken
to approve these loans.
I therefore intend not to uphold Mrs Js complaint about these loans.
Loans 5  9
Jones has shown, for these loans (such as loan 5) Mrs J signed a declaration to confirm that
she could afford the loan repayments. In addition, Jones income and expenditure
information sheet shows Mrs Js income was made up of benefits and had no outgoings
apart from food. Overall, Jones believed Mrs J had around £229.55 in weekly disposable
income which it considered to have been more than sufficient for Jones to believe Mrs J
could afford her repayments.
Similar checks were carried out before loans 6  9 were approved, which showed Jones a
similar picture. Mrs Js income was made up of benefits and she had minimal weekly
outgoings.
It seems, the details of Mrs Js income and expenditure may have been checked, but no
details have been provided from Jones to show what these additional checks may have
involved. Or has provided any evidence to demonstrate what it was provided with by Mrs J at
the time to demonstrate that the figures in the documentation were correct.
While Ive thought about the checks Jones carried out, by and from loan 5, I no longer think it
was reasonable of it to have continued to have relied on the information being provided to it
 even if it was checking that Mrs J was in receipt on benefits. I dont think, for the reasons,
Ill go into below that Jones carried out proportionate checks before it advanced these loans.
Given the fairly quick uptake of borrowing, Mrs J had overlapping loans and had returned for
new lending shortly after previous loans were repaid. I think this ought to have prompted it to
carry out further checks in order to make sure these loans were affordable for Mrs J.
Jones couldve done this a number of ways, it couldve asked to see copies of her bank
statements, copies of benefit statements, utility bills as well as looking at her credit report 
or at least try to establish whether there was any other outstanding credit that Mrs J owed.
As I say, it wasnt reasonable to rely on Mrs Js declaration that she had no outstanding
credit.
Overall, based on what Ive seen I dont think that the checks from at least loan five were
proportionate or went far enough and Im satisfied this is compliant with CONC, whereby the
checks being proportionate needed to change depending on what Jones knew. In this case
Mrs J was coming back for new loans on the same day previous loans were being repaid
and she was taking loans concurrently.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I must be
satisfied that had Jones carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered that
Mrs J couldnt afford them.
Mrs J hasnt, to date, provided copies of her bank statements or other supporting
documentation. So, I dont know and cant say for sure what Jones may have seen had it
verified the information she provided it as part of the loan application. I know she has sent us
a debt advice charity income and expenditure form. My reading of this is that it is an up-to-
date summary of her finances, rather than what they were at the time the loans were
approved.
So, without any further information from Mrs J about her other living costs, its
difficult for me to conclude what Jones wouldve likely seen had it made better checks.
Based on the information Ive been given to date, had Jones done further checks, I can onlyconclude that it wouldve thought these loans were affordable. So, Im intending not to
uphold Mrs Js complaint about loans 5 to 9.
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where
Jones ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Js indebtedness in a way
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further loans?
In addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Mrs J by
Jones, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending and what
unfolded during Mrs Js lending history with Jones. This is because, there may come a point
where the lending history and pattern of lending itself demonstrates that the lending was
unsustainable.
It is also worth noting here that in August 2020 the FCA released its review to Relending by
High Cost creditors. Although this review came out during the lending relationship, it didnt
include any new information or amendments to the rules but clarified the position that really
was always there within the rules.
The review said;
In that, we highlighted the risks in relation to repeat borrowing given that it could
indicate a pattern of dependency on credit that is harmful to the borrower. Rigorous
affordability assessments are key to avoiding harm in this area, and firms should
ensure they are making proportionate and responsible assessments of the
sustainability of borrowing
Ive already concluded above, and the same goes for here, that the checks Jones had
carried out werent by this time proportionate and so I cant fairly conclude that its checks
were rigorous and so opens the door that Mrs J may have been taking these loans in an
unsustainable manner.
I also acknowledge the document provided by Jones which provides further commentary
around each loan application, but as Ive said above, by now it wasnt fair or reasonable to
solely rely on what Mrs J was telling it.
So, referencing the relevant rules and guidance as summarised in the earlier part of my
decision, Jones was required to establish whether Mrs J could sustainably repay her loans 
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence
calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This
is because CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular
the customer should be able to make repayments on time and while meeting other
reasonable commitments.
It follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have realised, that
a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able
to make their repayments without borrowing further. I think this point was reached for Mrs J
by loan 10.
At this point Jones ought to have realised Mrs J was not managing to repay her loans
sustainably. Mrs J had been indebted to Jones for nearly 20 months. So, Jones
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs J was having to borrow further
to cover the hole making her previous loan repayments was leaving in her finances
and that Mrs Js indebtedness was now unsustainable.
So, rather than a picture of decreasing indebtedness which would happen when a
loan is taken and repaid, there was a pattern of repeated and at times increasing
borrowing. I think having taken out ten loans, over this period, it was a strong
indicator that Mrs J was starting to struggle financially.Mrs J had developed a pattern of taking out new lending (and repaying old lending)
on the same day or very shortly afterwards, for example loan nine was taken out on
the same day as loan seven. Loan 10 was also taken out only a couple of weeks
after loan eight had been repaid. To me that shows that Mrs J had long term financial
issues that she needed the money for and wasnt merely using these loans to plug a short 
term gap in her finances but to continue to make ends meet.
And this is reflected in the information Jones recorded about why Mrs J was taking
these loans. Some of these loans were used to fund yearly expenditures such as
Christmas. And it isnt necessarily or automatically unreasonable to use this type of
credit to do this. But using a high-cost form of borrowing over a prolonged period is
still likely to have caused financial problems, and in this case the evidence suggests
it left Mrs J with little alternative but to borrow again in the future, when these yearly
expenditures were likely to be incurred again, as she did.
From loan 10 onwards Mrs J was typically provided with new credit whilst she hadnt
repaid other loans and by the end she had three loans running at the same time.
Further supporting my view, that Mrs J was likely having financial difficulties as there
was a continued need for credit.
Mrs J wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Jones. Loan 17 was
taken out, over 43 months after Mrs Js first loan and the capital sum borrowed was
slightly more than the first loan. However, this loan was taken on while loans 15 and
16 were still running, giving a combined weekly repayment due to Jones of £92.
Which is significantly more than the £16 a week commitment she had at loan one.
Mrs J had in effect paid large amounts of interest to service a debt to Jones over an
extended period.
I think that Mrs J lost out because Jones continued to provide borrowing from loan 10
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Js indebtedness by allowing her
to take credit over an extended period.
the length of time over which Mrs J borrowed was likely to have had negative
implications on Mrs Js ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the
market for these loans.
Overall, Im upholding Mrs Js complaint about loans 10 - 17 and Ive outlined below what
Jones needs to do to put things right.
Gaps in lending
Ive thought about what Jones says about the gaps. For example, there was around 10 days
between Mrs J repaying loan 10 and taking loan 11. I dont think this gap has any bearing on
the outcome that Ive reached, because it is too small for Jones to have believed there had
been a significant change in Mrs Js circumstances and that these loans were now,
somehow, sustainable for her.
There was however, a slightly larger gap of three months between Mrs J repaying loan 14
and being granted loan 15. In some situations that may be enough, for me to have
concluded that Jones could start the chain of lending again, and that break wouldve been
enough to in effect re-set what a proportionate check could be.
However, in this case, I dont think the gap is long enough when considering the time Mrs J
has spent almost continuously indebted to Jones and the fact loan 15 was her largest capital
loan. Altogether, this makes me think the gap wasnt long enough for Jones to have been
confident that Mrs Js financial position had improved to such an extent that the loans were
now sustainable for her.
I appreciate Jones may feel that Mrs J only raised a complaint because it declined to offer
her further credit in July 2022. Given what Jones says at the time, about the repayment plan
it does seem to have been prudent to have declined any further request for credit. However,
ultimately, Mrs J is entitled to raise a complaint about irresponsible lending and it is for Jonesto show that it has complied with the relevant regulations.
Did Jones act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here that
leads me to conclude Jones acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs J in some other
way. Indeed, it does seem to have treated her fairly and with forbearance once it became
aware of her financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Jones accepted the findings made in the provisional decision and made an offer in 
line with the recommendation. However, it does mention the settlement is the pre-tax figure, 
but Jones has requested that the payment can be made without deduction of tax But, 
tax is payable on the 8% simple interest so Jones may wish to discuss this matter with 
HMRC. 
Im sorry to hear about the passing of Mrs Js mum and sister. This must have been a very 
difficult time for her and given what she has told us she clearly needed to find additional 
funds to cover unforeseen additional costs. 
Mrs J has clearly had a difficult time and I thank her for sharing this information with us. 
However, the information Mrs J provided doesnt unfortunately, give me with specific details 
of her finances during the time loans 5  9 were granted and so without this, it isnt possible 
for me to recommend that Jones pay compensation for these loans. 
Overall, I still dont think Jones was wrong to have granted loans 1  9, based on the 
information that I have to hand. However, by loan 10, the pattern of lending was now harmful 
for Mrs J and so loans 10  17 shouldnt have been granted. 
Ive outlined below what Jones needs to do in order to put things right for Mrs J. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Jones should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened if it had stopped lending from loan 10, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs J may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a
viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming
that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonableto conclude that Mrs J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Joness liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has
done wrong and should put right.
I direct that Jones does as follows because Jones shouldnt have given Mrs J loans 10 - 17.
A. Jones should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs J towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Jones has already refunded.
B. Jones should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs J which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs J originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Jones should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs J as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs J 
having made overpayments then it should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Jones should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mrs J. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Jones should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mrs J.
E. The overall pattern of Mrs Js borrowing for loans 10  17 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs 
Js credit file. Jones does not have to remove loans 15  17 from Mrs Js credit file 
until these have been repaid, but Jones should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Jones to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Js 
complaint in part.
Jones Finance Company should put things right for Mrs J as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman