DRN-3371735
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy that NewDay Ltd, trading as Marbles, provided her with increasing
amounts of credit, which she feels was unaffordable for her at those times.
What happened
Miss F applied for a NewDay credit account in September 2016. Her application was
successful, and NewDay provided Miss F with a credit card account with an initial credit limit
of £900. New Day offered and implemented several credit limit increases on the account,
and also approved Miss F for other NewDay branded credit accounts on three other
occasions, such that by January 2020 the total amount of credit being provided to Miss F by
NewDay was £8,450.
In December 2020, Miss F raised a complaint with NewDay on the basis that, in all
instances, the credit that NewDay had provided to her had been unaffordable for her at
those times. NewDay looked at Miss Fs complaint, but they noted that theyd undertaken
checks into Miss s financial position before offering any credit or further credit to her, and
they felt that on all occasions thered been nothing resulting from these checks that should
have given them cause to suspect that Miss F might not be able to afford the credit being
offered. So, they didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Miss F wasnt satisfied with NewDays response, so she referred her complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that thered been nothing
in the creditworthiness information that NewDay had assessed for the earlier provisions of
credit that should have given NewDay cause to suspect that Miss F might not be able to
afford that credit. However, they felt that the information that NewDay assessed about Miss
Fs financial position for some of the later provisions of credit  when Miss F had an
increasing amount of existing credit debt  was such that NewDay should have reasonably
concluded that Miss F might not be able to afford that credit, and therefore shouldnt have
provided that further credit to her.
NewDay didnt agree with the view put forward by our investigator on this complaint and
continued to feel that all provisions of credit had been provided fairly and reasonably. So, the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 February 2022 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how 
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before 
approving a customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of 
credit available to a customer on an existing line of credit, the business would 
undertake reasonable and proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that 
any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
In this instance, Miss F applied for four different NewDay branded credit accounts 
(which Ill refer to as Accounts 1, 2, 3, and 4 respectively). And at each point of 
application, NewDay took information from Miss F about her income and expenditure, 
as well as obtained information about Miss F from a credit reference agency, so as to 
get a better understanding of Miss Fs wider financial position at that time. 
Furthermore, before NewDay increased the credit limit on a credit account (which 
took place a total of five times) they reviewed how Miss F had managed that credit 
account to that time, as well as obtained updated information from a credit reference 
agency to refresh their understanding of Miss Fs wider
financial position.
It's notable that at all four points of account application, which took place in 
September 2016, October 2017, February 2018, and January 2020 respectively, 
Miss Fs declared personal income didnt change significantly, being £21,000 per 
annum in 2016 and rising to £22,000 at the time of the 2018 and 2020 account 
applications.
This is in contrast to the amount of existing credit that Miss F held, which increased
consistently and significantly throughout the period under consideration, being 
approximately £3,000 at the time of the first account application in 2016, rising to 
approximately £8,600 at application two in 2017, £12,500 in 2018, and £19,400 at the 
time of the final account application in January 2020.
Conversely, having reviewed the various account statements, its evident that Miss F 
didnt appear to be struggling to maintain the credit accounts within the agreed credit 
limits. And I say this because there are very few instances of Miss F going over the 
credit limit on an account and incurring over-limit fees as a result. And this picture of 
Miss F being able to maintain her credit accounts appears to be supported by the 
information that NewDay frequently obtained about Miss Fs credit file, which 
continued to show that Miss F wasnt in arrears on any of her other credit accounts or 
was using short-term payday loans, which  might have been indicators that Miss F 
was in financial difficulty such that the provision of further credit likely shouldnt have 
taken place.
All of which paints the picture that Miss F, during the time that NewDay approved her 
for initial and further credit, had a stable but relatively low annual income and was 
able to manage and maintain her credit commitments without significant incident. 
However, its also notable that Miss Fs total amount of existing credit was increasing 
steadily and significantly, to the point where the total amount of credit debt that Miss 
F held was approaching Miss Fs annual income amount.
This doesnt feel sustainable to me, and I find it difficult to conclude that, by 
continuing to provide Miss F with increasing amounts of credit, NewDay were 
providing credit to Miss F responsibly here.
This begs the question of at what point did Miss Fs amount of existing credit become 
such that the provision of further credit to Miss F shouldnt fairly and reasonably have 
taken place. This is a difficult question, but its notable that in their correspondence 
with this service, NewDay have stated that they consider a debt-to-annual-income 
percentage of 60% and above to be too high.It's also notable that, at the time of the third credit account application in February 
2018, Miss Fs annual income was £22,000, her total amount of existing credit was 
£12,500, and NewDay approved Miss F for a further £1,500 credit, taking the total 
amount of Miss Fs credit to £14,000  which equates to over 63% of Miss Fs annual 
income at that time.
Accordingly, given that NewDay appear to have not adhered to their own standards 
by providing this credit, and given also that I feel that this provision of credit marks 
the tipping point from when the provision of further credit by NewDay to Miss F no 
longer feels fair and responsible, my provisional decision here will be that NewDay 
should have concluded that all the credit provisions after and including the third 
account application in February 2018  which also include a credit limit increase on 
the first credit account in October 2018 (from £4,000 to £5,200) and the fourth credit 
account application in January 2020  most likely wouldnt be affordable for Miss F 
and therefore shouldnt have been provided to her. And I will be provisionally 
upholding this complaint in Miss Fs favour on that basis.
As such, my provisional instructions are that NewDay must reimburse to Miss Fs 
accounts all interest, fees, and charges that have accrued or been incurred on the 
two most recently applied for credit accounts (accounts 3 and 4) and also for any 
portion of the balance of credit account 1 above £4,000 from the point of the credit 
limit increase to £5,200 onwards.
If these reimbursements result in an account having a credit balance in Miss Fs 
favour, this balance must be paid by NewDay to Miss F along with 8% interest 
calculated to the date of payment.
NewDay must also remove all adverse credit reporting relating to any and all of Miss 
Fs credit accounts from February 2018 onwards.
Finally, NewDay must make a payment of £250 to Miss F to compensate her for any 
trouble and upset this matter may have caused. This payment may not take the form 
of a credit to one of Miss Fs NewDay accounts unless Miss F gives her permission 
for it to do so.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Miss F and NewDay the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. 
Neither Miss F or NewDay provided any comments or new information, and so I see no 
reason not to issue my final decision on the same basis as outlined above.
Putting things right
NewDay must reimburse to Miss Fs accounts all interest, fees, and charges that have 
accrued or been incurred on the two most recently applied for credit accounts (accounts 3 
and 4) from inception, and also for any portion of the balance of credit account 1 above 
£4,000 from the point of the credit limit increase to £5,200 onwards.
If these reimbursements result in an account having a credit balance in Miss Fs favour, this 
balance must be paid by NewDay to Miss F along with 8% simple interest calculated to the 
date of payment.
NewDay must also remove all adverse credit reporting relating to all four of Miss Fs credit 
accounts from February 2018 onwards.Finally, NewDay must make a payment of £250 to Miss F to compensate her for any trouble 
and upset this matter may have caused. This payment may not take the form of a credit to 
one of Miss Fs NewDay accounts unless Miss F gives her permission for it to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd, trading as Marbles, on 
the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman