DRN-1793765
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complained that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy associated with their mortgage by Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS).
What happened
In June 1994 Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage with BOS. Then in November 1996 they 
took out a PPI police associated with this existing mortgage. This policy covered them jointly 
for a benefit to be paid out to cover their repayments if either of them was off work through 
sickness or accident or were made unemployed. Mr and Mrs L cancelled the PPI in October 
1997 when they re-mortgaged.
Mr and Mrs L complained to BOS that the PPI was mis-sold but BOS didnt uphold their 
complaint. BOS also considered if any excess commissions and profit share had been 
charged on the premiums that needed to be repaid. It said that the mortgage Mr and Mrs L 
took out didnt fall within the rules and guidance introduced about this. Therefore, no refund 
for excess commission and profit share was due.
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with what BOS said so brought their complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they didnt think that the PPI was mis-sold and what BOS had said 
was fair. 
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Mr and Mrs L have complained about more than one PPI policy taken out with BOS. In this 
decision I am only considering if the PPI policy taken out in 1996, related to their mortgage 
ending 37-4 was mis-sold. Other policies have been considered separately. 
Mr and Mrs L say the policy was mis-sold as they were pressured into taking it out and 
believed it was mandatory in order to get the mortgage. They say if it had been clear they did 
not have to have the policy they would not have taken it out and they didnt need it. 
The records and information available in this case are limited. The sale of the PPI took place 
around 24 years ago, so this is not surprising.  BOS does not have the actual forms 
completed by Mr and Mrs L for the PPI but does have some computer records recording 
information from the time. These records indicate that Mr and Mrs L took out the PPI in 
November 1996, to cover the mortgage payments for their mortgage which had been taken 
out over two years earlier in 1994. So the PPI was sold at a totally different time to that when 
Mr and Mrs L took out their mortgage. It is believed the sale of the PPI may have taken place in branch and the customer advisor 
would have explained the PPI to Mr and Mrs L. BOS had in place processes for advisors to 
follow when the policy was sold. 
BOS has said this was an advised sale, so the process would have involved obtaining 
information about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances and then making a suitable 
recommendation to them. Information about the policy, covering costs, benefits and basic 
terms and conditions should have been explained taking account of Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances. It would then have been for Mr and Mrs L to decide if they wanted the PPI 
policy. 
I cannot be sure exactly what was said in any meeting, but I think Mr and Mrs L clearly 
agreed to take out the policy and knew at the time they had a choice. As their mortgage had 
already been in place for over two years, Mr and Mrs L would have known they did not have 
to have the PPI to get their mortgage. The application made in November 1996 was purely 
for the PPI cover. 
I also note Mr and Mrs L say they were pressured. As I have said, I dont know what was 
said to them at the time they took out the policy, but as they already had their mortgage, I 
cannot see how pressure to take out the policy to obtain the mortgage can have been 
applied. 
Taking into account all the circumstances at the time, I think Mr and Mrs L would have 
known they had a choice whether or not to take out the PPI and they chose to take it 
because they thought it would be of benefit to them.
I have also considered if the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs L. I cannot be certain if full 
details of the policy were explained to Mr and Mrs L. So I have looked at what information 
has been provided from the records of BOS and by Mr and Mrs L from their recollections.
The monthly cost of the premium would have been paid as part of Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage 
direct debit and notification of the amount and the change to the direct debit would have 
been provided. So they should have known the cost. 
The benefit was an agreed amount of £300 to cover Mr and Mrs L jointly at the rate of 50% 
each. This amount and the shared benefit must have been discussed for the PPI to be put in 
place with these specific terms. So I think Mr and Mrs L would have been aware of the cost 
and benefit when they signed the application form. 
I dont know fully what information was given to Mr and Mrs L about the terms and conditions 
that applied to the policy. After they took it out, they would have been sent further 
information and a Certificate of Insurance which would have provided full information, but 
this was after they had agreed to take out the PPI. 
Looking at what I know of Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time they took out the PPI, I 
think they were both eligible for the policy. And I have seen nothing to show they were 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. So I think the PPI would have 
been useful for them if something went wrong.
Mr and Mrs L were both employed and had some employment sickness benefits if they had 
been off work and may have received basic redundancy payments if made unemployed. But 
the PPI policy would have paid out in addition to any work benefits or redundancy. And 
would have been useful to pay the mortgage at what could have been a difficult time if either 
of them was not working for any reason. Mr and Mrs L have said they had some savings but I have no information about how much 
these may have been. But again, savings could have been needed for other living expenses 
and may have been essential if either Mr L or Mrs L were not working. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr and Mrs L at the time of the sale about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But I think they chose to take out the PPI at the time - 
so it looks like they wanted this type of cover and I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put Mr and Mrs L off taking out the cover.
It follows I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by BOS. I think at the time Mr and Mrs L were 
aware they had a choice whether to take it out and they thought it would be useful.
Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums would need to be refunded by BOS. However, the type of mortgage Mr and Mrs L 
took out is not affected by the rules and guidance put in place by the Financial Conduct 
Authority relating to this. So, no excess commission or profit share is due to be refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Bank of Scotland 
Plc to Mr and Mrs L and Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman