DRN-1286967
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax treated him when he 
attended a branch.
What happened
Mr C says he had an appointment with Halifax on 17 September 2019 in order to add his 
wife to his account. He says he spoke to Halifax a few days before the appointment to 
confirm the documents required. On the appointment date he says the Halifax staff member 
was late and her desk was not clear. Mr C says the staff member laughed at his wife's 
passport and was rude and clearly had an issue with Mr C's and his wife's nationality. The 
staff member would not accept the documents and Mr C says there was discrimination 
present and that the staff member should apologise personally to him and his wife.
Halifax accepts the meeting was not recorded and has apologised and paid Mr C £50 
compensation. It says it's also provided feedback to its staff member. Halifax says it's staff 
member says the documents provided were not sufficient and says it would not require a 
staff member to apologise in person.
Mr C unhappy with that response brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought overall Halifax had acted fairly by apologising for not recording the meeting and 
by paying a fair level of compensation. The investigator didn't think it possible to say what 
took place in the meeting as both sides have given different versions and didn't think it our 
role to say if discrimination had taken place- that was the role of the courts. The investigator 
didn't think it appropriate to ask the staff member to apologise in person.
Mr C doesn't accept that view and says the staff member had a dislike for his nationality and 
the decision not to record the meeting was deliberate. He says the compensation doesn't go 
far enough and maintains the staff member should apologise in person. Mr C says he 
managed to open an account with a different bank without problem and says the documents 
required should be for any bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr C will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about what took place. 
We are not the regulator of banks or building societies so its not our role to punish a 
business or tell a business what documents it requires, as in the case, to open an account. 
So whilst I appreciate that Mr C was able to open an account with a different bank using the 
documents he had I don't think it follows that Halifax made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
concluding it required further documents from Mr C and his wife before proceeding with the application. I'm satisfied such matters are for Halifax to decide upon when exercising its 
commercial judgement and not something I can fairly interfere in.
There is no question that Halifax made a mistake by not recording the meeting. And I 
appreciate Mr C's frustration in those circumstances as without such a recording I can't fairly 
make any conclusions about what took place during that meeting. But I am satisfied that 
Halifax has acted fairly by apologising for that mistake and paying what I think is a fair and 
reasonable amount of £50 compensation. I don't think Mr C suffered any direct financial loss 
as a result of the mistake but I accept he was caused inconvenience as he felt he had no 
alternative but to open a bank account elsewhere. Overall I think that award fairly reflects the 
level of Halifax's mistake and the impact it had upon Mr C. I can't fairly conclude that the 
failure to record the interview was deliberate but Mr C is aware that feedback has been given 
to the staff member on this point.
I appreciate Mr C says that Halifax discriminated against him and his wife. I have explained 
why I can't be sure what took place in the meeting. But in any event, as the investigator has 
explained, it's not our role to decide if the law has been broken as that is the role of a court.
I also appreciate that Mr C would like the Halifax staff member to apologise in person. But 
I'm satisfied that is not appropriate or fair. The staff member is employed by Halifax and  she 
was acting for Halifax in the September 2019 meeting. So I'm satisfied that its for Halifax to 
apologise for what took place, which its done, and its Halifax that has paid the 
compensation. I hope Mr C appreciates that the staff member was not acting in a personal 
capacity when the meeting took place and I have said that Halifax has provided feedback to 
that staff member.
I'm satisfied that overall Halifax has dealt fairly with this complaint and so I can't order it pay 
any further compensation or take any further action in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this compliant.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman