DRN-4005211
The complaint
Mr P complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to prevent him losing money to a scam.
Mr P has used a representative to bring his complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly 
only refer to Mr P and will ascribe the representatives comments to him. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2022 Mr P sadly fell victim to a scam  at 
the time he believed he was investing with a genuine firm. As a result of the scam, Mr P took 
a loan with a lender Ill refer to as Z. This was paid into his account with his own bank L. 
From there Mr P transferred £16,000 from his account with L to his Revolut account. Mr P 
then used his Revolut debit card to purchase cryptocurrency through a legitimate exchange 
B. Revolut processed this payment without taking any further steps beyond the 3DS 
authorisation process. 
When Mr P took out further lending with L, they called him into branch and ultimately invoked 
the Banking Protocol. This meant Mr P spoke to the Police and the scam was discovered. 
Mr P later complained to Revolut. He says they didnt do enough to protect him or warn 
against scams and that they failed to promptly action a chargeback for his payment to B. 
Revolut didnt agree theyd done anything wrong and the complaint was considered by our 
service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend it should be upheld. In summary she 
thought Revolut ought to have intervened in Mr Ps £16,000 payment to B, but she wasnt 
persuaded that this would have made a difference to him continuing with the payment. Mr P 
disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr P, so Ill explain why.
Mr P has said that screensharing software was downloaded which allowed the scammers to 
help him. But he doesnt dispute authorising the payment to B which forms the basis of his 
complaint. Im not going to make a finding as to whether Revolut ought to have intervened in 
Mr Ps £16,000 debit card payment to B. I dont need to do so to fairly decide this complaint. 
Revolut are an Authorised Electronic Money Institution (EMI) and not a bank. As such their 
accounts might be used differently compared to a more traditional bank account. And whilst 
Revolut still owe their customers a duty of care, they dont have all the same obligations that 
a bank would to intervene in unusual or out of character transactions to try to prevent 
customers falling victim to scams. 
The position here is that either Revolut didnt need to intervene, in which case they did 
nothing wrong in processing Mr Ps payment instruction unchallenged. Or, even if I were to 
find that they ought to have intervened, I agree with our Investigator that the level of 
intervention that reasonably could have been expected, wouldnt have resulted in the 
discovery of the scam or Mr P not making the payment. 
When L intervened in Mr Ps account, he initially told them that he was making the payment 
to his Revolut account to be sent on to a family member due to a personal emergency. L 
didnt accept this and required Mr P to attend a branch where he was questioned in more 
detail and ultimately the Police were called as a result of L following the Banking Protocol. It 
was upon the involvement of the Police that Mr P realised hed been the victim of a scam. 
Mr P also said in his own submissions that he was coached by the scammer as to what to 
say. And in one of the emails hes provided between him and the scammer he said: I am 
finding this whole process too stressful, having to concoct stories to loan companies, the 
bank and worst of all to the police. 
I accept that the in-branch interaction with L and the involvement of the Police took place 
after Mr P had made the £16,000 debit card payment. But if Revolut had stopped and 
challenged this payment, I think Mr P would have similarly not been truthful as to the reason 
for it. It was clear that at this stage Mr P was prepared to follow the instructions of the 
scammer and to tell regulated firms what they needed to hear to facilitate lending and or 
payments being made. 
Mr P says he was feeling under stress when lying to L and I think its likely his testimony 
didnt stand up to scrutiny in part for that reason. But its a lot easier to maintain a lie via an 
online chat rather than an in-branch interaction with the addition of all the non-verbal 
communication that would have gone along with what Mr P was saying.
In the event of an interaction about the payment, Id still have expected Revolut to have 
asked probing questions designed to try to unearth a potential scam and to have given 
appropriate warnings. Im just not persuaded that, in the circumstances of this complaint, this 
would have made a difference. I think Mr P would have lied to Revolut and would have been 
able to reassure them that he wasnt in the process of being scammed. The evidence is 
persuasive that a phone call from L was insufficient to discover the scam or alter Mr Ps 
decision. 
I understand the argument Mr P has presented which is that if Ls actions put him on the 
path to discovering the scam, then why couldnt Revolut have done the same? But as Ive 
mentioned before, Revolut are an EMI and not a bank. And Revolut calling Mr P into a 
branch and invoking the Banking Protocol leading to the involvement of the Police (which is 
what it took to finally unearth the scam), wouldnt have been an option for them.
Once the payment had already been made, the only potential avenue for recovery would 
have been the chargeback scheme. The payment in question took place on 12 May 2022 
and Revolut say that by the time Mr P contacted them it was too late to raise a chargeback.  
B are a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange and there is no suggestion that they didnt do 
what was asked of them (convert the funds to cryptocurrency and send it on as instructed). 
The evidence Mr P has provided from B supports that this took place on the same day as his 
payment. So irrespective of any time limits, I dont think there was ever going to be a valid 
option for recovery through the chargeback scheme. So, anything Revolut did or didnt do 
wont have impacted this.  Mr P has also said he was vulnerable at the time of the payment. But I cant see that Revolut 
reasonably could have been aware of this. And Im not persuaded that Mr P should 
automatically have been considered vulnerable solely on the basis of his age (which was in 
his early 70s at the time). Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr P has experienced with 
regards to his health and in dealing with the impact of being the victim of a cruel scam. But 
Im not persuaded, in the circumstances of this complaint, that this can fairly be used as a 
reason to direct Revolut they need to do more. 
Despite my natural sympathy for Mr P, even if I were to expect Revolut to have intervened in 
his payment to B. Im not persuaded this would have resulted in either the scam being 
discovered or Mr P deciding not to continue. And I dont think there were any other failings 
by Revolut where it would be fair and reasonable to require them to make a payment.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman