DRN-3416422
The complaint
Mr C and Miss L are unhappy a subsidence claim made under their home insurance has
been declined by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).
What happened
Mr C and Miss L noticed their conservatory was cracking in 2019 and carried out minor
redecoration. However, the cracking re-occurred. In July 2020 they contacted RSA, their
home insurance provider, to make a claim under their policy.
RSA inspected Mr C and Miss Ls property and said they thought clay shrinkage was
causing the subsidence, due to a neighbours Eucalyptus trees, but said further
investigations were needed to determine the depth of the conservatory foundations. The
ground near the conservatory and main house were subsequently investigated by
specialists. They said that whilst roots were present from a nearby neighbours Eucalyptus
trees, the subsidence was being caused by the conservatory being built on made ground.
RSA said the foundations werent deep enough for the type of ground the conservatory was
built on, and that was causing the movement. So, they declined Mr C and Miss Ls claim as
they said the subsidence was as a result of faulty workmanship, which is excluded under
their policy.
Mr C and Miss L didnt agree and obtained their own structural survey. This didnt conclude
the conservatory was moving due to the type of ground it was built on. It also said that once
the trees had been removed, then no further movement should take place.
Mr C and Miss L also had their conservatory demolished and a new conservatory built. The
contractors who carried out the works also said the ground under it was clay, rather than
made ground.
Mr C and Miss L were unhappy with RSA declining their claim, so they approached this
service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said that he was persuaded
the conservatory was built on clay, rather than made ground as RSA had concluded. And
he was also persuaded that the neighbours trees nearby were the cause of the subsidence.
He said RSA hadnt shown the trees were in situ when the conservatory was built, and the
conservatory was exempt from building regulations. So, he said there was nothing to say the
foundations needed to be deeper or built to any specific requirements.
Therefore, he concluded it was unfair for RSA to rely on the faulty workmanship exclusion.
He said RSA should accept the claim, cash settle for the costs Mr C and Miss L have
incurred in demolishing and replacing the conservatory and reimburse the cost of their
independent surveyor report.
RSA didnt agree with our investigators assessment. They said that Mr C and Miss Ls own
independent report had said the foundations were insufficient. They also noted that a simple
repair was proposed after a 12-month period of monitoring, but Mr C and Miss L hadnt
completed monitoring, instead theyd demolished and rebuilt a new conservatory.
RSA further said that if they accepted the ground was clay, rather than made ground as
theyd first concluded, the original builder of the conservatory should still have assessed the
site conditions and building regulations as good industry practice. They said that the
foundations werent built in line with this. So, they maintained the faulty workmanship
exclusion would apply.
Our investigator maintained that there were no regulations to follow as the conservatory was
exempt, and RSA hadnt evidenced the trees were present prior to construction, so he said
they didnt need to be taken into account.
RSA didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator. So, I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my provisional findings, before I reached my final 
decision. 
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reporting the claim, RSA appointed a loss adjuster to investigate. They said 
they thought the subsidence was indicative of clay shrinkage due to trees roots, likely 
from the neighbours Eucalyptus trees, but said further investigations were required 
to establish the foundation depths. A specialist was then appointed who carried out 
investigations and concluded the conservatory had been built on made ground.
RSA said the foundations were particularly shallow and as the ground was made 
ground the foundations werent suitable, which had then caused the subsidence. 
RSA declined the claim and relied on the following policy exclusion:
Uninsurable risks
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused
by or resulting from:
Poor or faulty design, workmanship or materials.
Mr C and Miss L appointed their own specialist to carry out a structural survey. They
concluded that the depth of the foundation was below the thaw/freeze zone and was 
to a sufficient depth to support the weight of the conservatory, so it shouldnt move 
on that basis alone.
Our investigator said this report had concluded the cause was due to tree roots, 
rather than the type of ground being made ground. And the report does indicate that 
if the Eucalyptus trees are removed there should be no further movement.
Mr C and Miss L subsequently had their conservatory demolished and the contractor
confirmed the ground was clay rather than made ground. So, our investigator waspersuaded that the tree roots and clay ground was causing the subsidence, rather 
than due to it being as a result of made ground unable to support the weight of the 
conservatory. RSA now appears to accept the ground being clay, following our 
investigators assessment. And having had sight of all the information, Im inclined to 
agree.
But RSA has maintained that the exclusion still applies. They outlined that for clay 
soil, building regulations say the foundations should be at least 750mm and will 
commonly need to be increased, in particular where vegetation is present. But RSA 
say the foundations were only 550mm, so fall far short of best practice in any event 
for clay soils, even if they werent taking into account the presence of trees and 
vegetation.
There has been some discussion between Mr C and Miss L and RSA whether the
Eucalyptus trees were present when the conservatory was built. RSA says the 
builder shouldve taken into account the presence of these trees along with the type 
of ground. But the conservatory was built before Mr C and Miss L purchased the 
property. So, they cant be certain exactly what was discussed at that time of 
construction, whether the builder took into account the trees, or if they were even 
present at the time.
Our investigator says he doesnt think they were present based on what Mr C and 
Miss L say. But having looked at the correspondence between Mr C and Miss L, it 
seems they arent certain of that. Theyve said they are unsure, and also say in any 
event they werent visible over the height of their fence until more recently. So, they 
say even if they were present, then they werent obvious to see.
It cant be known with any certainty either way whether the trees were present or not,
especially given the amount of time passed, and the rate in which those types of 
trees can grow.
Mr C and Miss Ls own specialist report also says it is known that the trees werent 
well established at the time of construction, but this isnt saying they werent in 
existence at all, instead it implies that if they were, they werent fully grown. Our 
investigator has focussed on RSA not being able to prove they were present, rather 
than Mr C and Miss L proving they werent. But either way, its not possible for me to 
determine this with certainty.
RSA say regardless of this, if they accept the ground is clay, rather than made 
ground, the conservatory foundations still werent in line with regulations or the 
standards from a major home warranty provider, which they say were best practice at 
the time.
Theyve referred to building regulations that say if the ground is clay, this requires a
foundation at a minimum of 750mm. And thats a minimum. They say that if there are 
tall trees present, then it needs to be in excess of this. As the conservatory 
foundations are only 550mm, then it still doesnt meet the minimum depth, even if tall 
trees arent taken into account (or didnt exist or need to be).
RSA have also referred to Mr C and Miss Ls own report. This says that taking into 
account standards from the new home warranty provider, their own report concluded 
the minimum depth shouldve been 1.5m to cater for the nearby Eucalyptus trees. 
RSA has commented that this is the same depth as their house foundations, and 
their house hasnt suffered subsidence, only the shallower foundation conservatory 
has.RSA has also carried out their own calculations using the standards Mr C and 
Miss Ls surveyor has referred to and they say this indicates a foundation depth of 
2.3m shouldve been the minimum. But either way, the conservatory only has a 
foundation of 550mm, so falls far short of both depths in any event. And RSA say that 
if the foundations of the conservatory had taken into account the clay ground and 
external influence, it wouldnt have subsided.
So, RSA says the faulty workmanship exclusion still applies in any event.
However, Mr C and Miss Ls conservatory was exempt from building regulations. And 
the builder also wasnt required to follow the standards outlined by the new warranty 
provider either. So, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for RSA to apply that exclusion 
solely on the basis the builder hadnt strictly complied with those regulations or 
standards which didnt apply to the conservatorys construction.
However, whilst it was exempt and the builder wasnt under an obligation to follow 
these strictly, they still had a duty to build a conservatory to a reasonable standard. 
And they should still have taken into account best practice at the time even if they 
didnt specifically need to strictly comply with those regulations.
As Ive mentioned, there is some uncertainty whether the Eucalyptus trees were 
present when the conservatory was built, and its impossible to determine that. But 
Mr C and Miss L say that even if they were present, then they still wouldnt have 
been above the height of their fence line so not easily visible.
However, the builder still wouldve had an obligation to build the conservatory to a
reasonable standard. And even if they werent the height of the fence line, they still 
wouldve needed to take into account the surroundings including if they were present, 
along with the ground type, and allow for impact and influence of that.
But in any event, accepting the ground is clay, rather than made ground, the 
building regulations  taking these as good industry practice rather than a 
requirement - say that for clay soil, foundations should be at least 750mm, and more 
to take into account trees and future external influence. Whether the trees were 
present or not, the conservatory foundations still didnt broadly meet the depths 
which were considered good industry practice.
So, whilst the builder wasnt under an obligation to strictly comply with these 
regulations, they still indicate the level of depths which would be good practice, even 
in the absence of trees being present. So, on balance, I cant say that the builder 
took into account or followed good industry practice. And I note that Mr C and 
Miss Ls own report also indicates the same. Therefore, on balance, as a result there 
has been subsequent movement of the conservatory.Whilst Mr C and Miss Ls own report says that the type of ground is suitable for the
construction, this is more of a general comment on the basis of the weight of the
conservatory alone. The foundations would also have needed to allow for external 
influence, and Mr C and Miss Ls own report also indicates the foundations shouldve 
been deeper to do this.
Mr C and Miss Ls own surveyor report also said that following the removal of the 
Eucalyptus trees, the conservatory should be monitored to check for movement for a 
period of 12 months, before a simple repair could then be carried out. However, Mr C 
and Miss L havent had monitoring carried out and have had the conservatory 
demolished and a new conservatory rebuilt, which includes foundations, so more 
than the simple repair required, as determined by their own surveyor.
Whilst I recognise it will come as a disappointment to Mr C and Miss L, on balance, 
Im not minded to conclude RSA has acted unfairly by relying on the faulty 
workmanship exclusion to decline the claim for the reasons outlined. So, Im not 
minded to conclude RSA should accept the claim or cover the cost of rebuilding the 
new conservatory.
Our investigator also said RSA should reimburse the cost of Mr C and Miss Ls 
independent surveyor report. And this was on the basis he said it altered the claim 
decision, and showed RSA was wrong in the claim decision theyd reached. 
However, I dont agree this is the case, so Im not minded to direct RSA to reimburse 
this. Ill explain why.
Whilst there is some difference in the determination of the type of ground the 
conservatory was built on, RSAs agent initially said this could be root induced clay 
shrinkage. And following this, they carried out trial pits and bore holes, which 
indicated otherwise. Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to reach 
that conclusion of the ground type based on the investigations carried out at the time. 
And when the old conservatory was demolished, along with its foundations, inevitably 
it gave a much more extensive opportunity for the contractor to assess the ground 
type than wouldve been possible with isolated trial pits or bore holes. The bore holes 
completed by RSA did indicate the type of ground they determined via these 
inspections, so I cant say those original conclusions were unfairly reached at the 
time.
And in any event, I dont think Mr C and Miss Ls own report demonstrates the overall 
claim decision reached by RSA was wrong, even if the initial ground type was 
considered to be different. So even if the ground type had been determined as clay 
from the outset, RSA still wouldve relied on the same exclusion, and I think that 
wouldve been fair for the reasons outlined. Therefore, I cant say that the report Mr C 
and Miss L obtained has changed the overall claim position. So, based on everything 
Ive seen Im not minded to conclude it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct 
RSA to cover the costs associated with this. 
Therefore, my provisional decision was not to uphold the complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
RSA responded accepting my provisional decision. They said they had nothing further to 
add.Mr C and Miss L sent several responses. In these they said no one has said the foundations 
should be deeper than they were. They provided additional information around Eucalyptus 
tree roots, and think regardless of the foundation depth, they wouldve caused damage at 
some point due to the destructive nature of them.
In addition, Mr C and Miss L said the conservatory wasnt demolished and a new one built, 
instead it was dismantled, new foundations built and then reassembled. And if they hadnt 
done this, despite being told it was stable, they still believe it wasnt and a local repair 
therefore wasnt possible.
Mr C and Miss L also referred to the differing reasons RSA declined the claim throughout, 
but feel theyve disproved all of those. And they also dispute the ground investigations 
carried out by RSA were sufficient. And theyve reiterated, in any event, the conservatory 
wasnt subject to building regulations. 
And Mr C and Miss L say the trees werent present when the main property was built, they 
were planted by the neighbours at some point and were uncontrolled and being allowed to 
grow to full height. They also said that as the roots could attack the conservatory 
foundations, this prevented them attacking the main house foundations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, and 
the responses Mr C and Miss L have provided to it. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
it will disappoint Mr C and Miss L, I havent reached a different outcome to that in my 
provisional decision.
Mr C and Miss L say from the multiple builders who have looked at their conservatory, none 
have said the foundations shouldve been deeper. And in any event, they say the 
conservatory wasnt subject to building regulations.
I discussed this point in my provisional decision. I said I recognise the conservatory wasnt 
subject to building regulations (or requirements by a major new home warranty provider). But 
the builder was still under an obligation to build a conservatory which was built to a 
reasonable standard. And whilst they werent required to strictly follow those building 
regulations, they give an indication of good industry practice at the time.
Accepting the ground is clay rather than made ground, the regulations said a minimum of 
750mm should be used, and deeper where there is vegetation. Whilst they werent strictly 
required to be followed, they give a good indication of good industry practice at the time. So, 
in order for me to conclude that the foundations had been built to a reasonable standard, I 
would expect them to be reasonably in line with the depths highlighted in the regulations, 
even if they werent required to meet them specifically. But here, the conservatory 
foundations were significantly shallower, and so not reasonably in line with the regulations, 
even if vegetation wasnt present. On balance and taking everything into account, Im 
persuaded that as a result of the foundations being too shallow, there has been subsequent 
movement of the conservatory.I also note Mr C and Miss Ls comments that no one has said the foundations should be 
deeper. However, I dont entirely agree with this. When RSA declined the claim, Mr C and 
Miss L appointed their own structural engineer to carry out a survey. Their own surveyor 
report says the foundations shouldve been deeper and around 1.5m. So, both RSA and 
Mr C and Miss Ls own surveyor have said this. 
Mr C and Miss L have provided information about Eucalyptus trees and how they can 
damage a property. But that isnt disputed here.
I also note Mr C and Miss Ls comments that the conservatory wasnt demolished and a new 
one built. Instead, it was disassembled, new foundations dug, and then rebuilt. Whilst the 
conservatory wasnt replaced in its entirety, Mr C and Miss L did send this service 
information in which they said a new roof was necessary as the old one couldnt be reused, 
and three different quote options for a new roof ranging from £4,000-£9,000.
But that doesnt change the fact that a simple repair after a period of 12 months of 
monitoring  as recommended by Mr C and Miss Ls own surveyor - wasnt carried out. 
Although I note Mr C and Miss Ls comments that they felt a simple repair couldnt be 
completed, the monitoring still wasnt carried out as recommended. And I havent seen any 
expert reports which show that a simple repair, as recommended by their own surveyor, 
couldnt be carried out or that it wouldnt have been effective.
Regardless of this, my consideration here isnt whether the repairs carried out were 
appropriate or excessive. Instead, my consideration is whether RSA has fairly relied on the 
faulty design and workmanship exclusion when declining the claim. So regardless whether it 
was demolished, dismantled or replaced, this would only be key in my determination if I said 
RSA hadnt fairly applied the exclusion and I was directing them to deal with the claim and 
either meet their own costs or Mr C and Miss Ls costs to repair it. But thats not the outcome 
Ive reached.
Mr C and Miss L have also disputed the detail and manner in which the ground 
investigations were carried out by RSA. However, Im satisfied that RSA reasonably relied 
on these findings based on the investigations carried out at the time. As I mentioned, when 
Mr C and Miss L then had the conservatory dismantled and the foundations fully exposed, 
this wouldve always given more access for the ground underneath to be looked at.
And Mr C and Miss L says the Eucalyptus trees werent planted by the developer who built 
the main property, instead the neighbour planted them after. I dont dispute that. And the 
conservatory was built after the main property construction too. In my provisional decision, I 
said it wasnt possible to determine with certainty whether the trees were planted prior or 
after the conservatory construction. And Mr C and Miss L werent the property owners at the 
time, so they are unable to say with certainty whether they were, and/or whether the 
conservatory builder took them into account or not at the time of construction. 
But, as Ive explained above, even removing the requirement to consider nearby vegetation, 
the conservatory foundations were significantly shallower than the depths set out in the 
building regulations. And while I accept these didnt strictly apply, I do consider that they give 
an indication of good practice. So, I think the foundations ought to have been built 
reasonably in line with these depths  which they werent. 
One additional point mentioned by Mr C and Miss L was that they believe the main house 
wasnt affected because the roots could devour the conservatory. But this supports that if the 
conservatory foundations had been deeper (and in line with good industry practice), like they 
were for the main house which wasnt affected by the tree roots and subsidence, then on 
balance its likely that it wouldnt have been affected either. With the above and my provisional decision in mind, I dont think RSA has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in relying on the faulty design and workmanship exclusion and declining Mr C 
and Miss Ls claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman