DRN-3755449
The complaint
Mrs I complains about a catalogue account which was opened in her name with Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited.
Throughout her complaint, Mrs I has been represented by a third party. But for ease, Ill just 
refer to Mrs I.
What happened
In June 2012, Mrs I says a third party used her personal details to open a catalogue account 
with Shop Direct. She says she discovered the account when a debt recovery agent got in 
touch with her around four years after the account was opened. Mrs I says she told agent 
she wasnt connected to the account and that they agreed to remove her from their 
database.
In May 2019, the debt recovery agent contacted her again. This time they looked closer into 
Mrs Is concerns that the account with Shop Direct was opened fraudulently. The agent 
didnt find any evidence of fraud, so continued to pursue Mrs I for the outstanding balance 
owed to the account.
Mrs I subsequently made a complaint to Shop Direct and asked them to remove her name 
from the account and to remove the adverse information from her credit file. Mrs I also asked 
them to reimburse her for the legal fees she had incurred. 
Shop Direct responded to say that Mrs I hadnt raised any concerns with them since the 
account was opened in 2012. They told Mrs I she should contact the debt recovery agent as 
the account had been sold to them to collect the outstanding balance. 
Mrs I didnt accept Shop Directs response and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mrs Is concerns and found that Shop Direct had treated her fairly. 
He concluded that most of Mrs Is personal details matched the application that was made in 
2012 and that repayments were made to the account. 
He also said that Shop Direct had delivered items to Mrs Is address along with 
correspondence about the account. So, he found that Shop Direct hadnt treated Mrs I 
unfairly, by holding her responsible for the outstanding balance of the catalogue account.
Mrs I didnt agree and said she didnt receive any correspondence or items from Shop 
Direct. She also said some of the details used in the application didnt match her own and 
that she didnt make any payments from her bank account to Shop Direct.
The investigator didnt change his conclusions, so Mrs Is complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mrs Is complaint is that she says she didnt open or authorise the opening of the 
catalogue account with Shop Direct. To help me decide if its fair for Shop Direct to hold 
Mrs I responsible for the balance owed to the account, Ive thought about the details used in 
the application. Ive also looked closely at the orders placed with Shop Direct and at what 
happened when the account entered into arrears, before it was passed to a debt recovery 
agent.
Im never going to know exactly what happened when the account was opened, or when the 
deliveries were made. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
The application for the catalogue account
Shop Direct have sent us the details used to open the catalogue account. The application 
was completed online and I can see that the correct address for Mrs I was used. I can also 
see that the applicant knew how long Mrs I had lived at that address, her date of birth, first 
name, title and home telephone number.
The application record shows that Mrs Is surname was spelt using an incorrect letter near 
the end of her name. I think it would have been prudent for Shop Direct to have corrected 
that, after they had completed some of their account opening checks. But, I also think the 
applicant used Mrs Is correct contact details, which Shop Direct used in their administration 
of the account. 
Shop Direct have said a welcome letter would have been sent to Mrs I in June 2012. We 
dont have a copy of that letter, or a record of that letter being sent. But, we do have records 
of deliveries to Mrs Is address. So, I think its likely correspondence was sent directly to 
Mrs I by Shop Direct. And I think this would have posed a risk to the applicant, if they were 
looking to conceal the account from Mrs I.
Mrs I says that the email address given to Shop Direct when the account was opened wasnt 
connected to her. However, I can see that it contains similar words to that of the email 
address she currently uses. We dont have any records of any emails sent to Mrs I by Shop 
Direct. So, Ive placed more weight on the other records available, to enable me to consider 
if its fair for Shop Direct to hold Mrs I responsible for the outstanding balance of the account.
Having thought about all the evidence, on balance I dont think there was anything unusual 
at the application stage which should have led Shop Direct to conclude the account was 
opened fraudulently. 
The orders placed with Shop Direct
To look further into how the account was used, Ive considered the orders placed and where 
they were delivered to. I can see from the account records that in the first three months of 
the account being active, four orders were placed amounting to £739. The limit of the 
account at that time was £1,000.
All four orders were delivered to Mrs Is home address. Three items within those orders were 
returned to Shop Direct and the balance was adjusted accordingly. I can also see that 
repayments were regularly made to the account.On balance, I think the operation of the account in the first three months is consistent with 
how catalogue accounts are used. Other orders were placed with Shop Direct after the first 
three months, albeit they were delivered to different locations. 
I think the account continued to be operated in a similar way, in that repayments were made 
and some items were returned by the recipient. In all the circumstances, I dont think how the 
account was operated, would indicate to Shop Direct that it was being used fraudulently.
Mrs I says she didnt receive any deliveries from Shop Direct and that she doesnt have a 
connection with the different locations used for some of the deliveries. However, Ive seen 
that Shop Direct allows a customer to choose different delivery addresses. So, I dont think 
that using a different delivery address means Shop Direct shouldnt hold Mrs I responsible 
for the balance of the account.
Furthermore, Mrs I says she didnt make any repayments to Shop Direct and her bank 
statements from the time support that. While I accept this may show that Mrs I didnt make 
payments from her current account, I can see there were other ways to make repayments to 
Shop Direct. 
Weve received evidence from Shop Direct showing that the repayments were made through 
their website. But there isnt any information to show from which bank account they were 
made from, or the payment method used. This means I cannot say for sure what bank 
account or card was used. But, I think the account holder had several options of how they 
could make payments. So Im not persuaded by what Mrs I says about how her bank 
statements show she could not have sent any funds to Shop Direct.
The arrears accrued in 2013
The records from Shop Direct show that the account holders address was changed in 
January 2013. In the following months, the account entered into arrears and Shop Direct 
sought to get repayment of those arrears. And the account holder stopped placing orders for 
any new items. 
I can see that four payments totalling £293.43 was made to the account during this time. I 
can also see that Shop Direct arranged a repayment plan in August 2013 for the remainder 
of the balance.
Mrs I says she didnt receive any notice from Shop Direct about a repayment plan and didnt 
make any payment towards the arrears. She says she first became aware of the catalogue 
account when a debt recovery agent contacted her in 2016.
Ive concluded that Im not persuaded the details used in the application and the operation of 
the account would have caused Shop Direct to suspect that the account was opened 
fraudulently. 
Similarly, I think the accumulation of arrears and the significant payments made to satisfy 
those arrears wouldnt have raised concerns about fraud. Ive also considered where Mrs I 
says she didnt raise her concerns about the account being opened fraudulently with the 
police.
Overall, I dont think the circumstances surrounding the arrears built up on the catalogue 
account show that it was opened or was being operated fraudulently. I acknowledge where 
the arrears got to a stage where they werent being repaid. But, I dont think this means 
Shop Direct have treated Mrs I unfairly, by involving a debt recovery agent to pursue her for 
the remaining balance.Summary
Ive carefully looked at all the evidence from Mrs I and Shop Direct. On balance, I think Shop 
Direct treated Mrs I fairly when they held her responsible for the repayment of the balance of 
the catalogue account. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to require Shop Direct to 
remove Mrs Is details from the account or to remove any adverse information from her credit 
file. I also dont think Shop Direct needs to reimburse the solicitors fees Mrs I has incurred.
Should Shop Direct make further contact with Mrs I about the balance of the account, then I 
remind them of their responsibility to treat her financial circumstances with due consideration 
and forbearance. This may mean looking at Mrs Is income and expenditure details to come 
to an affordable repayment arrangement with her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman