DRN-3885182
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. dealt with a claim against her travel insurance policy. Reference to Mapfre 
includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs C has annual travel insurance policy underwritten by 
Mapfre. The policy started on 18 May 2021.
Mrs C planned a skiing trip with a friend. Originally, the departure and return dates for 
the trip were 3 January 2022 to 8 January 2020 respectively. I understand that Mrs C 
and her friend decided to extend their trip to a second country until 12 January 2022. 
Unfortunately, on 6 January 2022, Mrs C broke her arm whilst skiing. She was 
transported to hospital by air ambulance and received treatment. 
On 6 January 2022, Mrs C contacted Mapfre in order to make a claim. Its common 
ground that Mapfre didnt assist Mrs C. So, Mrs C made her own arrangements to curtail 
her trip and return home. Mrs C returned to the UK on 9 January 2022 with the 
assistance of her friend. She pursued her claim, which included additional return flights 
to the UK, her medical costs and unused accommodation costs. 
Initially, Mapfre said that there had been failures in the service it provided and offered 
compensation of £200. It dealt with Mrs Cs claim for medical expenses but declined her 
claim for curtailment of her trip. There was further correspondence and Mapfre agreed 
that it was medically necessary to curtail the trip, so it would cover the claim in full. 
Mapfre also paid Mrs C compensation of £500. 
Mrs C says that she didnt received the assistance promised by Mapfre. She says that 
she had the inconvenience of making her own travel arrangements whilst injured, in pain 
and in shock. Mrs C says that she received no special assistance on the flight home. 
Mrs C said that Mapfre turned her claim into a complaint, which slowed down progress of 
her claim. Shes also concerned that the policy documents she had were incorrect. 
Mrs C wants Mapfre to apologies for the poor service she received and to pay more 
compensation. Mrs C thinks appropriate compensation is £1,526, which is the amount 
she estimates Mapfre saved by providing poor service.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that the compensation of 
£500 Mapfre had offered in relation to Mrs Cs distress and inconvenience was fair. The 
investigator said that he didnt think it was unreasonable for Mapfre to treat Mrs Cs 
concerns about the service she received as a complaint. He said that he noted Mrs Cs 
concerns in relation to the policy documents but that he was looking at Mapfres actions 
and the provision of policy documents isnt something Mapfre is responsible for. 
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator. She said that Mapfre has an incentive not to 
provide a proper service as it costs it less to pay compensation than provide the service. 
Mrs C said that Mapfre should be held accountable for its actions, which she believes 
were deliberate. She asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was 
passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
On 16 December 2022, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I 
indicated that I intended to uphold the complaint. I said: 
Its clear and quite understandable that Mrs C has strong feelings about this matter. Shes 
provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all this carefully 
and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that Mrs C wont take as 
a discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think are the central issues in the case.
Based on what Ive seen, Mapfre wasnt responsible for providing Mrs C with incorrect 
policy documents. I do appreciate that its confusing dealing with several parties but 
Mapfre is the underwriter of Mrs Cs policy, so its responsible for dealing with her claim. 
I dont think that Mapfre was at fault in treating Mrs Cs concerns as a complaint. She was 
clearly  - and understandably - dissatisfied with the service she was receiving. 
The remaining issue for me to decide is the fair level of compensation for Mrs Cs distress 
and inconvenience caused by the poor service she received from Mapfre in this case. In 
doing so, we dont look to punish the insurer. Mrs C suggests that appropriate compensation 
is a sum equivalent to the amount Mapfre would have paid in relation to her claim if it had 
dealt with it correctly. Thats not how we approach cases of this nature. Instead, we look at 
the effect of the poor service on the individual as we think that produces a fair and 
reasonable result. 
Unfortunately, the service Mapfre provided fell very short of the standard Mrs C could 
reasonably have expected when she took out her policy. She was left without assistance at a 
vulnerable time. Mrs C has provided medical evidence which says that her description of 
being unable to wash and dress independently or feed herself is entirely consistent with her 
injury and that she was very limited in relation to bimanual tasks. Mrs C says that she was in 
pain and in shock. So, it was difficult for her to deal with the curtailment of her trip, arrange 
return flights and return home without assistance. Fortunately, her friend who returned with 
her is an orthopaedic nurse and was able to assist her. But it remained the case that Mrs C 
didnt have the assistance her policy could have provided and her return journey was less 
comfortable than it would have been if Mapfre had assisted her.  
I think that Mapfres failure to deal with Mrs Cs claim for medical assistance caused her 
considerable distress, upset and worry at what was already a difficult time. Ive seen nothing 
to support Mrs Cs contention that Mapfres failure was deliberate. 
Following Mrs Cs return to the UK, it took Mapfre some time to deal with her claim 
effectively. It initially declined Mrs Cs claim for curtailment of her trip and made inaccurate 
assumptions about her needs and requirements. Following its medical review of Mrs Cs 
claim in early March 2022, Mapfre agreed to deal with Mrs Cs claim for curtailment. Mapfre 
made its final offer of compensation in mid-March 2022, over two months after Mrs C first 
made her claim. 
Considering everything, I think that total compensation of £750 in relation to Mrs Cs distress 
and inconvenience is fair and reasonable in this case. In reaching that view, Ive taken into 
account the nature, extent and duration of Mrs Cs distress and inconvenience both in 
relation to her initial claim for medical assistance and in her subsequent dealings with Mapfre throughout her claim. I understand that Mapfre has already paid Mrs C £500 in 
relation to her distress and inconvenience. I intend to direct it to pay an additional £250.
Mapfre has apologised for its poor service. I dont direct Mapfre to apologise again  not 
least because I dont think that a forced apology would have much meaning.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mapfre said that it will wait for Mrs Cs acceptance of the decision. Mrs C responded to say 
that she accepted the additional compensation but felt strongly that Mapfre should be held 
accountable for what she considers deliberate and calculated behaviour. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the responses to my provisional decision. As both parties accept what Ive said I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. For the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Mapfre treated Mrs C fairly and reasonably. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I now direct Mapfre to pay Mrs C compensation of £250 in 
relation to her distress and inconvenience in addition to the £500 it has already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. should now take the steps Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman