DRN-3642190
The complaint
Mr M complains that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declined a claim under his home insurance.
QIC used a third party company to handle Mr Ms claim and most of his correspondence has 
been with this company rather than directly with QIC. For the avoidance of doubt, any 
reference to QIC includes its agents, including the claims handling company.
What happened
Mr M had a QIC home insurance policy. In November 2021, he discovered damage following 
a storm. There were three areas of damage: 
Part of the felt flat roof had been torn off.
Slate tiles had been blown off the pitched roof.
Water had come through the roof causing damage to internal walls and ceilings. 
Mr Ms builder made some emergency repairs to the roof and estimated a full repair would 
cost £4,500. Mr M made a claim on his insurance. 
QIC appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyors report said, in summary:
No other flat roofs in the street were damaged.
Photos taken before the temporary repairs showed holes in the decking boards.
The front edges of the felt were cracked.
He estimated the felt roof was 20-25 years old and had surpassed its life 
expectancy.
The damage to the felt roof was due to wear and tear.
Based on this report, QIC told Mr M the storm force winds merely highlighted the poor 
condition of the roof and they were not the direct cause of the damage. It declined his claim 
for damage to the felt roof and internal damage to walls and ceilings. 
However, QIC accepted Mr Ms claim for replacement tiles for the pitched roof. It offered him 
£1,459.57 in settlement, less the policy excess of £250. This sum included the cost of the 
builders temporary repair, a dehumidifier, and a sum to reflect the increase to Mr Ms 
electricity bill while the dehumidifier was running.
Mr M rejected QICs offer and brought his complaint to this service. He believes QIC should 
settle his entire claim in full and reimburse him for additional costs he incurred. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He didnt think QIC 
had shown that the damage wasnt covered by Mr Ms policy, so he didnt think it was fair for 
QIC to decline the claim. He thought QIC should settle the claim in full and pay Mr M £300 to 
reflect QICs delays handling his claim.
QIC disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 July 2022. I said:
Like most polices, Mr Ms cover only makes QIC liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events. The damage needs to be caused by one of the insured events listed in his 
policy. Section 1.3 of Mr Ms policy booklet shows hes covered for loss or damage caused 
by a storm. 
As our investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage, we ask 
three questions: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed. 
So the first thing Ive got to consider is: were there storm conditions on or around the date of 
the claim? 
Mr Ms policy booklet defines a storm as, among other things, a gale of Force 10 or above 
(as defined under the internationally recognised Beaufort Scale) reaching wind speeds of at 
least 55mph. QIC accepts the weather conditions on 26 November 2021 met the policy 
definition. 
Ive checked this. Local weather records for the area show wind gusts of 74mph at a weather 
station seven miles from Mr Ms home. Ive also checked the Met Offices website and its 
information for the 2021/22 storm season. This shows that Storm Arwen hit the UK on 26 
and 27 November. The storm brought northerly winds gusting widely at over 60Kt 
(69mph) [and] was one of the most powerful and damaging winter storms of the latest 
decade. So Im satisfied the weather conditions met the policy definition of a storm.
Im also satisfied that the damage  felt torn from the flat roof, tiles torn from the pitched roof, 
internal water damage caused by rain coming through the damaged roof  is consistent with 
storm damage. 
So the only question is whether the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
QIC says they werent, relying on its surveyors report and the exclusion in Mr Ms policy for 
loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including wear and tear (General exclusions, 
page 15). Having reviewed all the evidence, I agree in part. 
The surveyors report is brief but, crucially, is supported by his photos. These show what 
appears to be significant age-related deterioration of the flat roof. In my opinion, the photos 
support the surveyors view that the roof is in poor condition with a felt covering that has 
been deteriorating for some time. Im conscious that the winds recorded close to Mr Ms 
home were extremely violent, however the kind of deterioration described by the surveyor 
isnt consistent with damage caused by a one-off storm.
Mr M hasnt provided any expert evidence that contradicts QICs surveyor. Instead, he said 
the hole in the decking board was hidden under layers of nailed down felt and there was no 
escape of water into the room below. I can understand why he thinks the storm caused the 
damage. I think many people would assume the same. However, I think the surveyors report 
and photos are more compelling  the roof was already in poor condition before the storm. So I think QICs decision to reject this part of Mr Ms claim was reasonable. 
The report doesnt comment on the pitched roof and broken tiles. The photos taken before 
Mr Ms builder made the emergency repairs show significant damage and, in the absence of 
any expert evidence on this, I think its reasonable to conclude that this was caused by the 
storm. Im pleased QIC accepted this part of the claim. 
QIC wouldnt pay for the internal water damage. It said this was pre-existing damage 
indicated by heavy staining and strong discolouration, had previously been painted over, 
and the mould showed it was due to condensation rather than a leak. On QICs last point, Mr 
M says the mould only developed in the month it took QIC to send its surveyor. 
The surveyors report makes no comment on the cause of the internal damage. It simply 
notes the staining as well as a crack in the wall in the rear bedroom which requires 
investigation. As I said, the photos show significant damage to the pitched roof. It also 
appears from the photos that at least some of the water damage is on the inside of this 
pitched roof. I dont agree that the photos show evidence that existing water damage had 
been painted over. And Mr M told us there wasnt any water damage beneath the flat roof. 
So Im not persuaded that QICs decision to reject Mr Ms claim for water damage was fair.
On balance, I think it more likely than not that the water damage to Mr Ms walls and ceilings 
was a direct result of the storm  not gradually over time  therefore should be covered by 
Mr Ms policy. Apart from the large crack in the rear bedroom  which I think is unlikely to 
have been caused by the storm  I think QIC should pay for any redecoration to repair this 
damage. Mr M should provide QIC with invoices/receipts for any work already done, and 
quotes for work that remains outstanding.
In summary, I think:
QICs decision to reject the claim relating to the flat roof was fair. 
Its decision to accept the claim for the broken tiles on the pitched roof was also fair. 
Its decision to reject the claim for the internal damage to the walls and ceiling wasnt 
fair. I think QIC should settle this part of the claim.
Finally, our investigator thought QIC should pay Mr M compensation for the delay in sending 
its surveyor to inspect the damage and subsequent delay in deciding his claim. I agree with 
him. Mr M reported the damage on 27 November 2021. QIC didnt send its surveyor until 30 
December and didnt tell Mr M its decision on his claim until 31 January 2022. Given the time 
of year and the amount of damage to the roof and inside of Mr Ms home, I dont think the 
inspection and decision on Mr Ms claim should have taken over two months.
Mr M took out a personal loan to pay for the roof repairs himself. He wants QIC to pay the 
loan fee and interest. I dont think thats reasonable. While I understand Mr Ms anxiety to 
have the roof fixed and why he took out the loan to pay for the repairs, he told us that nearly 
40% of the loan was to cover personal debt. And ultimately only about 15% of the loan was 
for repairs that I think QIC should cover. So I dont think it would be reasonable for me to ask 
QIC to cover the full loan fee or interest. 
However, I think the delays in QIC dealing with Mr Ms claim caused him some distress and 
inconvenience. I think QIC should pay Mr M £200 to reflect this.
Responses to my provisional decision
QIC accepted my provisional decision and had nothing to add.Mr M didnt accept my provisional decision. He thought Id made several errors in my 
findings and said, in summary:
The entire felt roof was ripped off during the storm. He sent us a photo showing the 
felt in one piece after it landed in his front garden, before he cut it up for ease of 
disposal.
Several houses in his street and neighbouring streets suffered structural damage.
There was only one hole in the middle of the decking board and no water damage 
before the storm.
QIC told him he couldnt use his own surveyor, so he couldnt provide his own expert 
advice.
He bought his home 18 months before the storm. Hed had no problems with the flat 
roof since then and wasnt alerted to any damage or wear and tear to the felt when 
he bought the house.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms comments. In answer to his points:
The fact the whole felt roof was torn off doesnt change QICs surveyors assessment 
of the roofs condition before the storm.
The surveyors photos show pre-existing damage to both the felt and the decking 
boards.
Felt roofs have a finite lifespan. QICs surveyor believed the roof was 20-25 years old 
and already beyond its life expectancy. I dont think this was an unreasonable 
conclusion. 
I dont doubt that the storm caused damage to neighbouring houses. However, Im 
here only to assess the damage to Mr Ms house.
Having said that, the surveyors photos show flat roofs on neighbouring houses that 
werent damaged by the storm. 
I think its reasonable that QIC requires its own surveyor to assess the damage as 
part of handling any claim. However, Mr M has always been free to appoint his own 
expert to challenge QICs findings.
As I said in my provisional decision, the surveyors photos support his conclusion that the flat 
felt roof was old and deteriorating. I agree that the storm caused damage to the roof but 
dont agree that the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage (as required in the 
third test I set out above); instead, the storm highlighted underlying damage that was already 
there. That means Im satisfied that QICs decision to decline this part of the claim was fair. 
Neither party has provided any comment or evidence on my other findings about the pitched 
roof, QICs delays investigating Mr Ms claim, or proposed redress. I see no reason to 
change my decision on these points.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. I require QIC Europe Limited to:
Settle Mr Ms claim for the damaged roof tiles (and additional costs) in line with its 11 February 2022 offer.
Settle Mr Ms claim for the internal water damage to walls and ceilings caused by the 
storm.
Pay Mr M £200 to reflect the inconvenience caused by delays investigating the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman