DRN-3860076
The complaint
Mr C complains ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) gave him unsuitable advice to take out a 
new personal pension plan rather than re-join his previous occupational pension scheme 
(OPS), and that the compensation it later paid for this was incorrect.
What happened
Mr C first joined his OPS in 1981 but by 1988 had opted out of it. In 1989, a firm ReAssure 
later became responsible for advised Mr C to take out a new personal pension instead of 
re-joining his previous OPS.
In 1994, the regulator established an industry-wide review of particular pension business 
carried out between 1988 and 1994, known as the Pensions Review. ReAssure offered 
Mr C a Pension Review as part of this, which he accepted. Following the review, ReAssure 
sent Mr C an outcome letter in 2001. This said the 1989 pension advice was unsuitable and 
caused Mr C a financial loss of £6,192.71, and offered to put this right by paying this amount 
into Mr Cs personal pension. Mr C accepted this offer. 
Mr C says he began having significant health difficulties in 2005 and retired early on ill-health 
grounds in 2015. But that he couldnt take his pension benefits until reaching age 55 in 2018.
In 2022, Mr C complained to ReAssure that its 1989 advice was unsuitable. He thought hed 
been pressured into accepting its 2001 offer, and this had only compensated him for loss of 
life cover and not pension benefits. So he wanted to be compensated properly.  
ReAssure said its 2001 Pension Review was carried out in line with the regulators guidance 
and assumptions at that time. That its 2001 outcome letter had accepted the 1989 pension 
advice was unsuitable and offered the correct amount of compensation. And it wasnt 
obliged to carry out another review for Mr C.  
Mr C asked our Service to investigate. He said his work meant hed been away at sea much 
of the time, and told us more about the health and financial difficulties he and his wife faced. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Cs complaint. She thought ReAssure had carried out its 
2001 Pension Review for Mr C in line with the regulators guidance and assumptions at that 
time and wasnt required to carry out a further review.
Mr C said the Investigator hadnt fairly or properly considered his complaint. He said hed 
mistakenly accepted the inadequate 2001 offer after being worn down. But our Investigator 
didnt change her mind. As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was referred for 
an Ombudsmans decision.  
While that referral was underway, Mr C told us he thought ReAssure had used some 
incorrect assumptions to calculate its 2001 compensation offer  the wrong OPS start date 
and the wrong gender. And Mr C said he was later wrongly advised to increase his 
contributions to his new personal pension. 
This complaint came to me to consider. I contacted Mr C and ReAssure to say I hadnt seen 
anything to persuade me that, when providing redress, ReAssure had carried out the review 
incorrectly, and so I didnt intend to ask ReAssure to do anything further. 
ReAssure said it had nothing to add. For his part, Mr C reiterated that ReAssure had given 
him unsuitable advice and hadnt fairly compensated him for it. He said hed paid into his 
OPS between 1981 and 1989 and had only opted out of his OPS once, in 1987. Mr C 
provided details of his employments over the years, as well as a copy of his OPSs 
Estimated Retirement Options Statement dated 4 March 2023. He also asked if the 
government had added a £1,000 payment to his new personal pension as he thought it had 
promised to do. 
Im now in a position to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by acknowledging the health and financial issues Mr C has told us about. Im 
very sorry to hear of these, and I dont doubt theyve caused him a great deal of distress and 
difficulty. But while I dont wish to cause Mr C any further distress, Im not asking ReAssure 
to do anything more here. Ill explain why.
Mr C feels very strongly that the 1989 advice was unsuitable, and also suggests he later 
received further unsuitable advice to increase his contributions to his new personal pension. 
But theres no need for me to consider this because ReAssures 2001 Pension Review 
accepted that its advice to start a personal pension rather than re-join his OPS was 
unsuitable. Therefore, whats left for me to consider is whether ReAssure compensated him 
for this correctly when it carried out Mr Cs Pension Review.
Its important to note that under the industry wide Pensions Review established by the 
regulator, businesses were only required to conduct the review once, using the standards 
and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. This is because the assumptions 
or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess the future loss. In 
general, the assumptions to be used for the calculation were those relevant to the time that 
the calculation was done, and compensation was paid on this basis. This included where 
mistakes were discovered in the original calculations  a re-calculation would usually be 
done using the same assumptions that applied at the date of the original calculation.
Unfortunately, in many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt 
materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, has had an impact on the benefits 
provided by personal pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid following 
the review, plus the existing value of the pension, would be high enough to match the OPS 
benefits at retirement date, this hasnt been the case for many consumers. But that alone 
isnt a reason to carry out a further Pension Review and recalculate compensation.
The Pension Review was intended to be a one-off exercise. So businesses could provide 
redress for mis-selling, knowing they wouldnt be liable for future compensation. And 
consumers could be reassured that the mis-selling had been recognised and put right at that 
point in time using what were considered reasonable assumptions without needing to revisit 
the matter many years later. Because of this, the Pension Review was a very tightly 
regulated process, subject to supervision and sampling at the time by the regulator.The regulators current guidance, referred to as FG17/9, was originally aimed at complaints 
upheld about OPS transfers/opt outs received after 3 August 2016 or received before this 
date that hadnt been settled in full and final settlement already. It was initially intended that 
any case that fell within the Pension Review period would be excluded from this updated 
guidance. 
However, it was subsequently decided some cases could be included - where reviews by 
businesses hadnt been carried out in accordance with regulatory standards at the time of 
the review - and/or where the particular circumstances of a case were not addressed by 
those standards. The onus under this guidance is on the consumer to show theres been a 
mistake. 
ReAssures 2001 Pension Review calculated its unsuitable pension advice in 1989 had 
caused Mr C a financial loss of £6,192.71. But Mr C thinks this isnt enough and that 
ReAssure didnt carry out the review correctly because it used some incorrect assumptions 
to calculate its compensation offer. Ive considered all the comments and evidence both 
parties have provided me with. This includes the evidence of the 2001 review that ReAssure 
has provided our Service, including a copy of the 2001 outcome letter sent to Mr C which set 
out its compensation offer and the information and assumptions that offer was based on. 
And it also includes the evidence Mr C has provided me with regarding his OPS.
Mr C suggests ReAssure used the incorrect gender when it carried out the 2001 review, 
because it said Mrs. I do note the 2001 letter says Mrs C in one place. But I think its more 
likely than not that this was simply a typing error, as everything else in the letter is clearly 
about Mr C. And I can see that the assumptions ReAssure based its calculations on use the 
correct gender for Mr C. 
Mr C also says ReAssures 2001 review was based on the incorrect OPS start date (1987 
instead of 1981) and that he only opted out of his OPS once in 1987. The evidence Mr C has 
provided shows he first joined his OPS in 1981. But both the 2003 OPS statement of 
benefits and the 2023 Estimated Retirement Options Statement that Mr C has provided 
shows the period of service for which he had a benefit in the OPS was from 1987 to 1988.
And from the evidence ReAssure has provided, it seems that Mr C first joined his OPS in 
1981 but by 1986 had chosen to opt out of it and had received a refund from it. He then 
opted to re-join this OPS in 1987. And while in 1988 he chose to opt out of it again, he had 
preserved benefits from 1987 and was eligible to re-join it at the time of ReAssures 
unsuitable advice in 1989. So while I acknowledge Mr C thinks ReAssure should have used 
1981 as his OPS start date, Ive not seen enough evidence to fairly conclude that it was 
incorrect for ReAssure to use 1987 as the date from which Mr C had pensionable service in 
this OPS. And as I say, its the case that the Pension Review was a very tightly regulated 
process, subject to supervision and sampling at the time by the regulator.
Having considered all the evidence provided by both ReAssure and Mr C, I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that, when providing redress, the review was carried out 
incorrectly. Im satisfied ReAssure checked whether Mr Cs benefits could be reinstated into 
the OPS  they could not. So I think the 1989 pension advice was reviewed and 
compensation was calculated in line with the regulators guidance and requirements at the 
time. 
I know Mr C says he thought the 2001 compensation was only for loss of life cover and not 
his pension, and was pressured into accepting that compensation. But the 2001 review 
outcome letter ReAssure sent to Mr C makes clear the £6,192.71 of compensation offered, 
and which ReAssure paid, was for the loss of pension value caused by its unsuitable 
pension advice in 1989. And while the letter did say Mr C should sign and return the enclosed form within 28 days if he wanted to accept the offer, it also made clear he could 
ask for more time if he needed to think about the offer or seek independent advice about it. 
Mr C has also asked whether the government paid £1,000 into his new personal pension. 
But thats not a point I can consider in this complaint, as Ive not seen that Mr C has yet 
complained to ReAssure about it, and its unclear whether this is something that ReAssure 
would be responsible for in any case. So Mr C would firstly need to complain about this point 
to the responsible business or organisation. And it will let Mr C know how he can escalate 
that complaint, in the event he remains unhappy with its response.
So, while I realise this will be a very great disappointment to Mr C, Im not asking ReAssure 
to do anything further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman