DRN-4351335
The complaint
Miss J complains about the service provided by Bridgewater Support Solutions Ltd trading 
as DFH Financial Solutions Ltd (DFH). 
What happened
Miss J has explained that she completed a DMP application via DFH. But Miss J decided not 
to proceed and contacted DFH to withdraw within the cooling off period. Miss J has 
explained that when she contacted DFH she met with resistance. Miss J also says debts 
with businesses she didnt owe money to were included on the paperwork. Miss J has added 
that despite cancelling the arrangement with DFH it still continued to contact her creditors 
and advise it had authority to act on her behalf. 
Miss J says that despite contacting DFH to complain on several occasion it failed to look into 
matters or issue a final response. In April 2023 Miss J referred her complaint to this service. 
We contacted DFH on 17 April 2023 on Miss Js behalf and asked it to respond to her 
complaint. No response was received. 
On 4 July 2023 and 25 July 2023 an investigator contacted DFH and asked for its case file. 
On 5 August 2023 the investigator issued their view of Miss Js complaint and upheld it, 
asking DFH to pay her £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. A response was 
chased on 18 August 2023 and the investigator explained that if we didnt hear back Miss Js 
complaint would be referred for a final decision. No response was received so on 1 
September 2023 the investigator contacted DFH again and explained Miss Js complaint had 
been referred for appeal. They asked DFH and Miss J to respond by 15 September 2023 
with any comments or information. No response was received from DFH. 
The case was allocated to me a short time later and I asked the investigator to contact DFH 
again to remind it of its obligation under the Financial Services and Markets Act to provide 
information to the Financial Ombudsman Service requested as part of an investigation. DFH 
was given a further two weeks to provide the information requested. We reminded DFH that 
decisions, if accepted by the consumer, are legally binding. The investigator requested case 
evidence again. No response from DFH was received by the deadline given. 
Miss J responded to confirm they were willing to proceed in line with the investigators 
recommendations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Miss J has given us detailed testimony concerning the level of service provided by DFH after 
she completed a DMP application. I understand Miss J later decided the nature of DFHs 
fees werent made clear and decided not to go ahead. But Miss Js explained the process of 
cancelling the arrangement with DFH wasnt straight forward and that she met unnecessary 
resistance. In addition, despite Miss J cancelling the services of DFH, shes told us it still 
contacted her creditors and made claims it was acting on her behalf. Having looked at what 
Miss J said, I can understand why she was frustrated with the service provided and went on 
to raise a complaint. 
Miss Js explained DFH failed to respond to her complaint or follow up with her. Weve 
contacted DFH on several occasions about Miss Js complaint, including sending requests 
for its case file, the investigators findings and confirmation the case was being referred for a 
final decision. Despite contacting DFH and reminding it of its obligation to assist with an 
investigation, weve had no response. 
Our remit requires us to move cases on without undue delays. Im satisfied DFH has been 
given fair chance to supply its side of Miss Js complaint and respond. And Im satisfied 
weve got sufficient information on file from Miss J to reach a fair decision. 
I agree with the investigator that Miss J was put to some inconvenience. Miss J says the 
nature of DFHs fees wasnt clearly explained at the outset and that it was difficult to cancel 
its services. Based on the available information, I agree that a payment of £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused is a fair and reasonable way to resolve Miss Js case. Im 
going to proceed on that basis and uphold Miss Js complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Js complaint and direct Bridgewater Support Solutions Ltd 
trading as DFH Financial Solutions Ltd to pay her £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman