DRN-3445243
The complaint
Mr R complains about data handling issues when he took advice from Mortgage Advice 
Bureau Limited about re-mortgaging. He says due to these issues his re-mortgage didnt go 
ahead and hes been left on a higher rate of interest. 
What happened
Mr R had a mortgage with an interest rate product that was due to expire in May 2021. He 
wanted to re-mortgage with the bank that provided his main banking services. Mr R took 
mortgage advice from MAB, which recommended a mortgage and applied to the lender on 
Mr Rs behalf. 
Mr R was contacted in late March 2021 about a valuation of his property. Due to the loan to 
value ratio the lender required a physical valuation of the property. Mr R wasnt happy with 
the valuers requirement that he remain outside the property or in a different room during the 
inspection. Mr R says this wasnt required under Covid guidelines at that time. 
Mr R was also unhappy about the data policies of the surveyor and the solicitor appointed by 
the lender. He says MAB didnt explain why these businesses were involved in his mortgage 
application and he hadnt consented to this. He said their data handling practices werent 
aligned with MABs data protection policies or modern slavery statements. Mr R decided not 
to continue with the application.
MAB said all lenders would instruct a valuation to be carried out on their behalf as part of the 
mortgage application process. It said if Mr R wasnt prepared to allow this hed have to stay 
with his existing lender and take out one of its preferential products.
Mr R said this meant MAB couldnt recommend a suitable mortgage. He asked it to return its 
fee. Mr R says hes been left on a higher rate of interest with a lender he doesnt want to be 
with. He wants a confirmation that his data is being correctly handled.
Our investigator said MAB had provided a copy of the notice it gave to Mr R about how it 
uses personal data and how its shared with third parties for the purpose of processing an 
application. It explained why surveyors and valuers are part of a re-mortgage process. He 
said MAB isnt responsible for the data policies of the lender, or the solicitor or valuer 
appointed by the lender. Our investigator said it was Mr Rs choice to cancel his application. 
Mr R didnt agree, saying his mortgage application was badly handled. Mr R says:
it isnt usual practice for MAB or a lender to assign solicitors or valuers to the mortgage 
application without his advice. He said he was under no obligation to allow this.
he agreed that his data could be shared for the purpose of finding a suitable lender, not 
solicitors or valuers. He said the lender had written to him denying it was involved in 
appointing these companies.
some of these processes have gone through MAB against its policies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr R contacted MAB for mortgage advice. MAB recommended a mortgage and made an 
application to the lender on behalf of Mr R. 
The lender instructed a surveyor to carry out a valuation. And because the product Mr B 
applied for included free legals it also appointed a solicitor to carry out the legal work.
I dont agree with Mr R that this isnt usual practice. Lenders ask for a valuation to help 
assess whether a property is suitable security for the loan. Lender are entitled to instruct 
their own valuer: they dont have to rely on a valuation carried out on behalf of the borrower. 
Lenders ask a solicitor or conveyancer to check the property title and carry out the 
necessary work to ensure the mortgage (the charge on the property) is enforceable. Lenders 
often allow borrowers to choose a solicitor from the lenders panel. Here, the product 
included free legals and the lender appointed the solicitor. 
I agree theres no obligation for Mr R to accept this. But I think its unlikely a lender would 
offer a mortgage without a valuation by a surveyor instructed by it, and completion of the 
necessary legal work by a solicitor instructed by it or on its panel. I think it was reasonable 
for MAB to say that it wouldnt be able to find a lender that didnt require this. I think it was 
reasonable for MAB to tell Mr R that if he wasnt prepared to allow a prospective lender to 
instruct a valuation hed have to stay with his existing lender. 
I dont find it surprising that the data protection processes of the lender, surveyor and 
solicitor arent the same as MABs. Theyre different entities and each is responsible for its 
own policies and processes. The surveyor and solicitor operate in different professions with 
different regulatory obligations to MAB, in addition to general data protection regulations. 
Whether their policies are correct is outside the scope of this decision. Whether the lender 
denied appointing the solicitor and surveyor is also outside the scope of this decision. 
Mr R says the mortgage recommendation from MAB wasnt suitable because he wasnt 
happy with the valuer and solicitor appointed by the lender. He said if MAB couldnt find a 
suitable lender (that is, one that allowed him to choose the valuer and solicitor) it should 
refund its fee. I dont think its reasonable to require MAB to refund its fee or pay 
compensation for any additional interest Mr R pays while remaining with the same lender. 
I think MAB did what it said it would do, and what Id expect it to do. It recommended a 
mortgage and made an application on Mr Rs behalf. It explained why the surveyor and 
solicitor were involved. I dont think MAB could reasonably have known that Mr R expected 
to appoint the valuer and solicitor rather than the lender, that he expected the data policies 
and processes of all parties involved in the mortgage to be the same, or that hed cancel the 
application when he found out this wasnt the case.
MAB gave Mr R a copy of its client privacy notice, explaining how it manages personal data 
and when it could be shared with third parties. This included making an application to the 
lender. As part of the application process, Mr R also signed the lenders declaration (which 
included information about the lenders use of his data and sharing his data with third parties). 
I havent seen anything to suggest that MAB mis-used Mr Rs data. If Mr R remains 
concerned about this, he can consider contacting ICO. But having considered the available 
evidence, I dont think MAB made an error here or treated Mr R unfairly. It follows that I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to require MAB to pay compensation or take any further steps. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman