DRN-1628203
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited is not of satisfactory quality. He wants MotoNovo to accept his
rejection of the car.
What happened
Mr W obtained a second hand car using a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo on 3 
August 2019. He says that, within a couple of days, he noticed there was a problem with the 
car's suspension. He reported this to the supplying garage and it investigated. It kept the car 
for around two weeks and replaced some parts. But Mr W said the replacement parts 
weren't made by the manufacturer and the problem hadn't been fixed. He complained to 
MotoNovo.
MotoNovo made arrangements for an independent report. The engineer couldn't replicate 
the fault and concluded that the car was fit for purpose and satisfactory condition for its age 
and mileage.
Mr W didn't agree and arranged for the manufacturer to carry out some diagnostic tests. The 
manufacturer concluded there was a fault - the suspension lost height overnight.
As the conclusion of the diagnostic tests contradicted the independent report, MotoNovo 
arranged a second independent report using a different car inspection business. This 
engineer concluded there were no issues with the car's suspension.
Mr W also reported other problems with the car, included a leaky sun roof, problems with the 
radio, and the frequent need to fill the car with oil.
The second independent report noted a problem with the oil warning light and a smell of oil 
in the car. But concluded this was a wear and tear issue which would not have been present 
when the car was supplied.
Based on the conclusions of the independent reports, MotoNovo did not uphold Mr W's 
complaint and did not accept his rejection of the car.
Mr W didn't agree and brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one 
of our investigators. Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He 
concluded that the manufacturer's diagnostic tests and the photos provided by Mr W show 
there were faults with the car within the first six months of it being supplied. The supplying 
garage had attempted a repair that was unsuccessful, so our investigator recommended that 
MotoNovo should now accept Mr Ws rejection of the car and that it should:
End the finance agreement with no further liability for Mr W.
Refund the vehicle deposit, plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
thedate of settlement.Refund half of one monthly payment for loss of enjoyment plus 8% simple interest on 
the refund amount from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the manufacturer's inspection report cost (if not already refunded).
Remove any adverse information from Mr W's credit file;
Pay £150.00 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that the issues with 
the car have caused.
 
MotoNovo didnt agree. It said, in summary that:
When Mr W first contacted MotoNovo, he complained that the repairs hadn't been 
carried out using genuine manufacturer's parts. It was only when 
MotoNovo defended this complaint point that Mr W said there was still a problem with 
the suspension.
Two independent reports concluded there is no problem with the suspension. The 
second inspection took place under the same conditions as the manufacturer's 
testing - the car had been left overnight.
It had already paid for the manufacturer's diagnostic report, so Mr W has not had to 
pay for it.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this
service can consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo is the supplier of goods under
this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the 
quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint I would have to be 
persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has taken 
place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its age 
and mileage when it was supplied, and how long after supply the fault(s) materialised.
The car in this case was around five and a half years old and had a mileage was around 
79,000 when the car was supplied. 
Mr W says he noticed a problem with the rear suspension within a few days of obtaining the 
car. Even though the car was second hand with a relatively high mileage, it's reasonable to 
expect that something like the suspension would be functioning as intended. Mr W took the 
car back to the supplying garage. It must have agreed there was a fault because it replaced 
the rear air suspension units. The fault occurred very shortly after the car had been supplied which leads me to conclude 
that the fault was present or developing when the car was supplied - so the car wasn't of 
satisfactory quality. 
This doesn't automatically mean Mr W has a right to reject the car. The Consumer Rights 
Act allows the supplier an opportunity to carry out a repair. The supplying garage replaced 
some parts and I need to decide whether the work it carried out fixed the fault, or whether 
the car is still not working as expected. And I've considered this very carefully. 
MotoNovo obtained two independent reports. The second report was obtained because the 
manufacturer's report obtained by Mr W conflicted with the conclusions of the first report. 
The three reports conclusions were as follows:
First independent report
The engineer could not replicate any fault with the suspension. He noted some other issues, 
but concluded these were cosmetic. The report concluded that the car was fit for purpose 
and satisfactory taking into account its age and mileage.
Manufacturer's tests
The manufacturer reported that, "found fault with OSR ride height sensor. Left overnight, lost 
height on both sides, but worse on OS. Both bellows different manufacturers and not [the 
car's manufacturer]"
Second independent report
The engineer found no issue with the car's suspension. He reported a possible issue with 
the oil warning light, and a smell of burning oil in the car, but concluded this would not have 
been present at the point of sale.
I don't think it was unreasonable for MotoNovo to rely on the independent reports when 
considering Mr W's complaint. But I can't dismiss the findings of the manufacturer's report. 
As noted by our investigator, the tests carried out by the manufacturer were over a two day 
period and seem to have been more extensive than those carried out by either of the 
independent inspectors. The manufacturer clearly concluded that there is a fault with the 
suspension. And this fault seems to be the same as the one reported by Mr W within a few 
days of the car being supplied to him. 
In the circumstances, and after very careful consideration, I am persuaded by the 
manufacturer's report and by what Mr W has told us. I find that there is still a fault with the 
supsension and that this fault is the same one reported by Mr W in the few days after the car 
was supplied.
The supplying garage was given the opportunity to resolve the fault. But the repairs it carried 
out have not fixed it. So I find its fair that MotoNovo should now accept Mr W's rejection of 
the car
In arriving at this conclusion, I've taken into account that when Mr W first complained to 
MotoNovo he said that the supplying garage had used replacement parts not supplied by the 
manufacturer. But if the fault had been fixed using non-manufacturer's parts, I find it unlikely 
that Mr W would have complained. I can see this has also been commented on in the 
manufacturer's report. The manufacturer clearly has a vested interest in using its own parts 
on a car. But I don't find it likely that the manufacturer would have reported a fault when there wasn't one, just because non-manufacturer's parts were present on the car. So this 
doesn't change my overall conclusion.
Mr W also reported other problems with the car - including the oil warning light, as noted in 
the second independent report, a leaky sunroof, and a problem with the radio. But I do not 
need to make a finding on whether these faults were present at the date of supply and 
whether this affects the satisfactory quality of the car. That is because I've already decided 
the car wasn't of satisfactory quality because of the fault with the suspension.
In accepting Mr W's rejection of the car, MotoNovo will need to cancel the agreement with 
nothing further for him to pay, removing it from his credit file. It should also refund the cash 
deposit Mr W paid, plus interest. I think that our investigator's recommendation for  
compensation for loss of enjoyment of the car and for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to be fair and reasonable. Ive also considered whether MotoNovo Finance should 
refund any more of the payments Mr W has made under the agreement. But, as hes been 
able to drive the car, I think its fair that he pays for this use. Likewise, he should have to pay 
for the normal costs of running a car, such as insurance.
Our investigator concluded that MotoNovo should reimburse Mr W for the cost of the 
manufacturer's diagnostic report. But, in response to our investigator, MotoNovo told us it 
arranged to pay the invoice in full at the time. And Mr W agrees. So I don't find it needs to 
make any further payment for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited should:
1. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mr W.
3. Refund the cash deposit paid of £5,000, plus 8% simple interest from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
4. Refund half of one monthly payment for the loss of enjoyment of the car. 
5. Pay Mr W £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
6. Remove the finance agreement from Mr W's credit file.
 
MotoNovo Finance Limited should add 8% simple interest to payments 3 and 4. HM 
Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
MotoNovo Finance Limited must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman