DRN-3058983
The complaint
Miss M complains that Society of Lloyds trading as Lloyds of London (SOL) avoided 
(treated like it never existed) her unoccupied property insurance policy, refunded the 
premiums paid and declined a claim she tried to make for water damage.
My reference to SOL also includes the underwriting syndicate which actually provided the 
cover under Miss Ms policy.
What happened
Miss M took out an unoccupied property insurance policy with a SOL syndicate via a broker. 
The policy was subsequently renewed twice.
In December 2019 Miss M discovered her property had been damaged by a water leak from 
the flat above. In February 2020 she tried to make claim for the resulting damage that had 
been caused to her flat. Miss Ms property was inspected by SOL agents and they said the 
property was in a poor state of repair, so their findings were referred back to underwriters for 
consideration.
SOL said when taking out the policy (and at renewal) Miss M had declared the property was 
in a good state of repair, and they didnt think that was the case. They considered this to be 
a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled them to avoid the policy, decline the 
claim and return the premiums Miss M had paid. But they paid £200 for the delay in reaching 
a claim decision.
Miss M was unhappy with this so she brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked 
into things and didnt think SOL needed to do anything further.
Our investigator felt the property wasnt in a good state of repairs when the policy was taken 
out (and renewed). Therefore he said Miss M hadnt taken reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. He considered the actions SOL had taken following this (avoiding the 
policy, declining the claim and refunding the premiums), and thought that was reasonable in 
the circumstances. He also noted that SOL had paid £200 compensation for the delays in 
reaching a claim decision, and he didnt recommend this be increased.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
SOL thinks Miss M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
took out the policy (and when it was renewed). They say that Miss M had declared to the 
broker, who passed the information on to SOL, that the property was in a good state of 
repair when that wasnt the case. This answer was reflected in the statement of fact and 
documents Miss M was provided after the initial sale, and at subsequent renewals.
There were several misrepresentations SOL thinks were made which also included non-
compliant door and window locks at the property. But these werent material to the policy or 
claim outcome overall, so they werent relied on by SOL when reaching their decision. 
Therefore, I wont comment on these points further and will instead focus, as have SOL, on 
the state of repair.
Its SOLs view that Miss Ms property was in a poor condition when she purchased it, and 
several months later, bought her insurance policy. Whilst Miss M had declared some works 
would be carried out in the future which SOL were aware of, these were modernising the 
property. These planned works also werent completed by the time the claim arose, after the 
policy had been renewed twice, so the property was in the same or similar condition at that 
time as when the policy was first taken out. 
The statement of fact and documents provided to Miss M following the sale (and renewals) 
of the policy reflect the questions that SOL needed to know the answers to. And this 
contained a clear question; whether the property was in a good state of repair  with the 
answer being yes. The follow-on renewal documents also confirmed that Miss M had 
declared the property was in a good state of repair. They also said the implications of 
incorrect answers being given. 
Miss M accepts she answered this question as yes, and this was the answer given to SOL 
and that isnt in dispute. But Miss M says she thinks the property was in a good state of 
repair. But SOL dispute this and say she shouldve said it wasnt. So, I first need to decide 
whether Miss M took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out (and 
renewing) the policy.
Miss M said that redecoration, plumbing and wiring would be completed along with a new 
bathroom and kitchen being installed. This is noted on her documents and that isnt 
disputed. Miss M also mentioned in the calls she had that she would be doing the 
redecoration herself, and contractors would complete the kitchen, bathroom and rewiring. 
She later said that family members who worked in the trade would be completing the works. So, SOL were aware that works would be carried out. But I dont think there was enough in 
the type of works noted on the statement of fact and documents alone to indicate the 
condition of the property was poor in itself. And alongside this, in any event, the statement of 
fact also reflected Miss M had said the property was currently (and at subsequent renewals) 
in a good state of repair at that current time  which she doesnt dispute. 
Miss M says that she thought the property was in good state of repair as her view was that it 
was watertight and needed modernising because it was tired. And thats why she says she 
told them it was in a good state of repair.
Following the loss an inspection was carried out on the property by SOL agents. They said 
the property was in very poor condition and much of that was historic rather than loss 
related. They said all the utilities had been isolated and there was extensive rot and damp 
issues. They noted that there was a collapsed ceiling, and there was wallpaper which had 
fallen from the walls. They also noted an external dripping overflow pipe which they say had 
caused rot damage. Whilst Miss M disputes the condition was poor, I havent been provided 
with evidence which demonstrates this is inaccurate, and the images provided in my view 
dont show it to be in a good state of repair overall.
In addition to SOL agents report, they also relied on additional information obtained from 
around the time of the sale of the property, and subsequent policy inception. Miss M 
purchased the property at auction for a relatively small sum. And SOL obtained a copy of the 
auction advertisement. This said:
The property is currently non habitable, therefore non mortgageable, and requires a full 
programme of upgrading and modernisation
It then went on to include a warning which said:
Unsafe properties are evidently in a condition that poses a serious risk to the health or 
safety of occupants or visitors, or where the way the home is marketed suggests it is 
unsuitable for occupation in that condition. There is little point in a condition survey being 
undertaken on a home that is unfit for occupation in any case, and is being advertised as 
such.
Miss M has since said that she thinks the property being described by the auction house in 
that condition was a sales tactic, but shes been unable to provide evidence of this. And 
following Miss M saying this, our investigator also contacted the auction house. They said 
this type of warning would only ever be placed if theyd determined it was needed due to the 
condition of the property. Therefore Im unable to conclude, on balance, that it was a sales 
tactic or the information wasnt reasonably accurate.
None of the planned works declared to SOL were carried out during the subsequent 
renewals or prior to the loss due to a change in Miss Ms circumstances, and she had 
differing intentions for the property due to this. So, on balance, the overall condition was still 
the same or similar at each renewal as it was when she purchased it. 
I dont think a reasonable consumer would conclude a property is in a good state of repair if 
it isnt habitable, isnt mortgageable, requires full upgrading and has a warning that it poses a 
serious health and safety risk. Consequently, having considered all the information provided, 
I dont think Miss M took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out, 
or renewing, the policy. So, I now need to decide if the misrepresentation Miss M made about the state of repair was 
a qualifying one. This means I need to consider what SOL wouldve done if theyd been 
aware the property wasnt in a good state of repair.
SOL has provided underwriting evidence that if they had been aware Miss Ms property 
wasnt in a good state of repair when taking out (or renewing) the policy then it would have 
been outside their risk appetite, and they wouldnt have offered cover. Therefore, Im 
satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one here.
SOL hasnt specifically said whether they believe Miss Ms misrepresentation was careless 
or if it was deliberate or reckless. But I can see that they have provided a refund of 
premiums. This means they have treated Miss Ms misrepresentation as careless. I dont 
think this decision is unfair, taking into account the circumstances of this case.
As Im satisfied Miss Ms misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions SOL can take in accordance with CIDRA. The remedies set out in CIDRA explain 
that for a careless misrepresentation, the insurer may avoid the policy providing it can show 
that but for the misrepresentation, it wouldnt have offered cover. They also need to provide 
a refund of premiums. 
This is what SOL did in this case. Therefore, taking everything into account, Im satisfied 
SOL was entitled to avoid Miss Ms policy in accordance with CIDRA. And, as this means 
that  in effect  her policy never existed, SOL does not have to deal with her claim for water 
damage. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I 
think allowing SOL to rely on it to avoid Miss Ms policy produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint.
Miss M is also unhappy with the time it took for SOL to reach a claim decision. SOL 
acknowledge that it took much longer than it shouldve and paid £200 compensation. Having 
considered this further, it appears this was due to internal discussion taking some time and 
the claim not being actively progressed. But its clear this took longer than it shouldve and 
thats not disputed. SOL paid £200 compensation for this. Im satisfied thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint so Im not going to ask them to increase 
this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman