DRN-1879921
The complaint
Miss E complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE unfairly asked 
her to pay the remaining annual premium of her motor insurance policy after her car was 
declared a total loss. 
What happened
Miss E took out a car insurance policy in June 2019. This premium was for a period of one 
year. Miss E paid for the premium by monthly instalments under a credit agreement 
arranged by the insurance intermediary.
In September 2019, Miss E had an accident in that car and made a claim on the policy. The 
claim was settled on a total loss basis, and Miss E received £5,250 from the insurer. Miss E 
accepted this payment in settlement of her claim.
Miss E expected that, after the claim was finished, if she cancelled the policy, the monthly 
payments would no longer be needed. Miss E did then cancel the policy, as she decided not 
to immediately buy a car with the money received from the insurer. The insurer told her that 
she still needed to pay for the premium for the full year. Miss E doesnt agree that this should 
have been paid, as she no longer had a car and so didnt need an insurance policy for the 
rest of the year. So, Miss E brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator said that the terms and conditions of the policy made it clear that in the 
event a total loss claim had been made, the full annual premium would be due. The insurer 
accepted this view. Miss E disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After making a claim against the policy for an accident, Miss E accepted the payment of 
£5,250. She didnt raise any complaint about the way this claim was handled, or the payment 
received, so I havent looked at this.
In cases such as these, I need to decide if the insurer has applied the terms and conditions 
of the policy in a fair and reasonable way. 
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
Important information:
13. Termination of the contract
If you cancel the policy, you will be entitled to a proportionate refund of premium provided 
that no claim has been made during the current period of insurance.
And the policy wording says:
8. Cancelling your policy 

If we have paid for the total loss of your car, you must pay the full annual premium and you 
will not be entitled to any refund.
In my experience, its standard practice for an insurer to require full payment of the premium 
when theres a fault claim against a policy. This is because the policyholder has had the 
benefit of the cover. So, its generally not unreasonable for the insurer to require the 
premium to be paid in full.
Miss E said that she doesnt think its fair to pay for insurance when she no longer has a car, 
which I can understand. But the premium paid was for 12 months of cover. Where a claim 
has been made against a policy, it makes no difference when in the year-long term the 
accident happened. The credit facility Miss E used to pay monthly was offered to make the 
premiums more manageable. It does not mean that the cover was being offered on a month-
to-month basis. 
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Im satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable for the insurer to have charged the premiums for the full policy  as there was a 
claim. I wont be asking them to do anything as a result of this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Es complaint against Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe 
SE. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Deborah Hall
Ombudsman