DRN-4103490
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect them from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help them recover the money 
once theyd reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr and Mrs S were victims of an investment scam. Mr S had wanted to invest some money 
for retirement and came across a company who Ill refer to as G while researching online. 
G had been at the top of the search results and was mentioned in an article Mr S had read. 
Before speaking to one of Gs brokers, Mr S checked the website and was impressed it had 
a live-trading graph showing the prices of different coins increasing and decreasing, a live-
chat function and a customer service section. Mr S had also seen positive reviews on 
Trustpilot, and the broker explained that any negative reviews were left by competitors. All 
this made G appear genuine. 
The broker told Mr S he could achieve a steady stream of income by investing in 
cryptocurrency. He was told to download Anydesk so he could be shown how the trading 
would work. The broker asked him to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency 
exchange company and then load the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet. On 21 June 
2021, Mr S paid £359.87 to a company Ill refer to as C using a debit card connected to his 
HSBC current account. The broker called daily and Mr S could see profits on his trading 
account. On 12 July 2021, he was given a refund of £73.71. 
The broker told Mr S that hed need to invest more money and so on 26 October 2021, he 
paid a further £2,515.69 from his HSBC credit card (this payment is the subject of a separate 
complaint). Then, on 28 October 2021, he paid £793.80 to a cryptocurrency exchange 
company and a further £9,993 to a different cryptocurrency exchange, having been advised 
to do so when the first exchange asked for additional verification.
On 2 November 2021 Mr S paid a further £9,993, believing he was going to receive his 
profits, but he was told there had been a tax issue and he would need to pay £4,985 to avoid 
allegations of money laundering. He realised hed been the victim of a scam when he didnt 
receive any money and he couldnt get in touch with the broker. He reported the scam to 
HSBC, but it said it was unable to support the claim as hed authorised the transactions and 
the payments had gone to an account in his own name.
When Mr and Mrs S complained to HSBC it said it was unable to provide a refund because 
Mr S had control of the beneficiary account. It explained its fraud detection system was 
based on current fraud trends and not all payments would flag for further checks. It said it 
expected its customers to carry out their own due diligence before making this type of 
payment and provided advice on how Mr and Mrs S could protect themselves against fraud 
in the future.
Mr and Mrs S werent satisfied and so referred their complaint about HSBC to this service. 
They explained that over the course of five months, Mr S had invested £26,050.95 (including 
the £2,519.69 credit card payment). They said HSBC didnt contact them at all throughout 
the scam period and had allowed transactions to go through without warning them about the 
risks. They explained Mr S isnt an experienced investor and was unable to tell the difference 
between a real trading platform and a scam platform. The scammer had used high pressure 
sales tactics and Mr S had believed he was dealing with a reputable firm and had a profit 
credited back to his account. 
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. He noted there was a warning about C 
on the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) website published 
on 22 March 2022, which was more than a month before Mr S made the first payment. He 
explained that, given the timing of the alert relative to the first payment, HSBC ought to have 
identified C from its watchlist and automatically blocked the payment. He explained HSBC 
should have contacted Mr and Mrs S to warn them that they were making a payment to a 
business about which there were warnings, and that he thought it was likely they wouldve 
reconsidered their decision to make that and all the subsequent payments. 
As he was satisfied HSBC couldve prevented Mr and Mrs Ss loss, he recommended it 
should refund all five payments (not including the payment from their HSBC credit card, 
which as Ive said is the subject of a separate case here), less the £73.72 that had been 
refunded, and pay 8% simple interest on the settlement from the date of the payments to the 
date of settlement.
HSBC has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. It has argued that 
there was no basis to conclude Mr and Mrs S would have decided not to go ahead with the 
later payments because Mr S had found the broker to be persuasive and convincing and 
there were no warnings about G at the time, so Mr S would likely have been persuaded that 
the warning had nothing to do with G and was no cause for concern. In support of this 
argument it pointed to the fact the broker had advised Mr S to use a different cryptocurrency 
exchange when the first one asked for additional verification.
HSBC has argued there was no obligation, regulatory guidance or industry practice requiring 
it to block payments to merchants which were the subject of an IOSCO warning and that, 
notwithstanding the approach this service has subsequently adopted, this was not the 
approach taken at the time of the payment. It has also argued that its not clear whether the 
IOSCO warning actually related to C as the name featured on Mr and Mrs Ss statement 
wasnt an exact match for any of the names featured in the IOSCO warning. 
HSBC has questioned whether the first payment was related to the later payments and 
whether the payments to the cryptocurrency exchange companies were actually lost to 
scammers.
It has said Mr and Mrs S contributed to their own loss, arguing that theyd gone ahead in the 
face of negative reviews, assurances of returns that were too good to be true and 
implausible reasons for the final three payments. Finally, it has said that 8% interest should 
only apply to £1,153.67 of the payments.
Our investigator accepted HSBC should apply the account interest to £24,971 of the redress 
which was funded from their savings account, and that 8% interest should only be applied to 
£1,153.67 which came from the joint account.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr and Mrs S say theyve fallen victim 
to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. The CRM code didnt apply to any of the 
payments Mr S made to cryptocurrency exchange companies because the accounts were in 
his own name.
Im satisfied Mr S authorised the payments for the purposes of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of the 
bank account, Mr and Mrs S are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. This is because there is a warning about G on the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) register dated 14 July 2021 and Mr S was directed by G to pay C, about 
which there was an IOSCO warning, something I wouldnt expect from a genuine investment 
company. But, although Mr S didnt intend the money to go to scammers, he did authorise 
the disputed payments. HSBC is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it 
may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether HSBC should have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. HSBC had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these 
payments were part of a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have 
intervened to warn Mr S when he tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or 
suspicious payments on an account, Id expect HSBC to intervene with a view to protecting 
Mr S from financial harm due to fraud. 
The first payment didnt flag as suspicious on HSBCs systems but even though it wasnt for 
a large amount, it was to a company in respect of which there had been an IOSCO warning 
in place for more than a month, so HSBC should have identified that and blocked the 
payment. Regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As 
long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated  in its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims  
that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watchlist of types of scams 
and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence with other 
banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the regulator gave no specific 
timings, its not unreasonable to expect HSBC to update its watchlist and communicate 
internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being posted by the FCA or IOSCO. In 
my judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bells and lead to the payment 
being paused pending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer.
HSBC has argued that its not clear whether the IOSCO warning actually related to C, as the 
name featured on Mr and Mrs Ss statement wasnt an exact match for any of the names 
featured in the IOSCO warning. I accept the company name is shown differently on the statement, but I think its clear the extra element is part of the web address and not the 
company name, and I think HSBCs systems should reasonably have detected this and 
searched for both the name as shown on the statement and the name without part of the 
web address.
It has also questioned whether all the payments were part of the same scam. The first 
payment took place on 21 June 2021 and yet the second payment (from Mr Ss credit card 
account) wasnt until 26 October 2021 and they were to different merchants, so its 
reasonable for HSBC to question whether they were both linked to the same scam. 
Mr S has produced a message he received from G which confirmed he had money on his 
trading account in July 2021. The message doesnt specify how much Mr S had invested at 
that point, but Im satisfied its evidence of Mr S having already paid money to G and, on 
balance, I think it was probably the payment he made to C in June 2021. There is a further 
email from G dated in October 2021 in which Mr S mentions a refund of £750 and refers to 
himself as £3313.49 out of pocket. As this is the sum of the second and third payments 
(£2519.69 and £793.80) it seems likely the refund Mr S believed he was entitled to was 
related to a previous investment, which, Im satisfied, was probably the payment he made to 
C in June 2021. So, Im satisfied the payment of £359.87 that Mr S paid to C on 21 June 
2021 was related to G. And as Ive seen emails between Mr S and G discussing the later 
payments, Im satisfied all the payments were part of the same scam.
Critically, because of the IOSCO warning, Im persuaded HSBC should have contacted Mr S 
to tell him he was making a payment to a company in respect of which there was an IOSCO 
warning. I would also expect it to ask some probing questions in response to which I think its 
likely Mr S would have told it about the involvement of a third-party and that it was the third-
party who advised him to pay C. I would then expect HSBC to have warned Mr S about the 
risks associated with this type of investment and discussed with him the nature of the checks 
hed undertaken.
I think that, on balance, a call from HSBC would probably have made a difference to Mr Ss 
decision to go ahead with that payment and the subsequent payments. This is because, 
even though there were no warnings about G at the time he made the first payment and Mr 
S clearly trusted the broker, I havent seen any evidence he would have been prepared to go 
ahead in the face of clear advice from HSBC that the fact this was a high risk investment and 
G had advised him to  pay a company in respect of which there was an IOSCO warning 
meant it could be operating a scam, and I think he most likely would have changed his mind 
about the investment and decided the risk of proceeding was too high to accept.
Because of this, I think that HSBC missed an opportunity to intervene in circumstances when 
to do so might have prevented Mr and Mrs Ss loss. 
Ive considered whether the settlement should be reduced for contributory negligence, but I 
dont think it should. Mr S has explained that the scammer was very professional, and G had 
a professional-looking website and so he believed this was a genuine investment 
opportunity. Having considered the circumstances of this scam, Im satisfied it was 
sophisticated and I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr S to have thought it was genuine. 
He did some basic online research, and this had left him feeling confident about the 
investment. Consequently, whilst there may be cases where a reduction for contributory 
negligence is appropriate, I dont think this is one of them.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC missed an opportunity to intervene to prevent Mr and Mrs Ss 
loss and so it should refund the money they lost, with interest.My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC should: 
refund £26,124.67.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, on £1,153.67 and account interest on £24,971 
from the respective dates of loss to the date of settlement.
*If HSBC deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should provide Mr 
and Mrs S with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman