DRN-2640402
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds settlement of a claim they made 
under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R have a travel insurance policy linked to their bank account. In November 2019 
they booked a package holiday which was due to take place in April 2020. In December 
Mr R was referred to a consultant for investigations and the following month he was 
diagnosed with cancer. In between the referral and the diagnosis Mr and Mrs R made further 
payments towards the balance of their holiday. 
Following Mr Rs diagnosis the holiday was cancelled as he was due to start treatment. 
Mr and Mrs R received a partial refund from the tour operator, in line with the booking terms 
and conditions so they claimed the outstanding costs from Aviva. 
Aviva said they could only offer a refund of around £60, once the excess had been deducted 
because they would only cover the costs incurred before Mr R had been referred to his 
consultant. They said that had they been made aware of Mr Rs referral theyd have been 
unable to offer cover. Mr and Mrs R made a complaint but Aviva maintained their decision to 
decline the claim. In their final response letter Aviva incorrectly referred to Mrs R being 
unwell. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought that Aviva had fairly declined 
the claim and that theyd acted in line with the policy terms. Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and 
asked an ombudsman to look at the complaint. They pointed out that Aviva could use their 
discretion in the circumstances. They have also pointed out that their holiday, ultimately, 
wouldnt have gone ahead in April 2020 due to the impact of Covid-19 and theyd have been 
able to recover the costs in full from their travel provider.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to hear of Mr Rs diagnosis. Its clear that Mr and Mrs R have had a very 
difficult time and I dont doubt what theyve told us about the impact of Mr Rs illness on their 
personal circumstances. Whilst I have a great deal of empathy with Mr and Mrs Rs 
circumstances Im not upholding this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The relevant policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy define a medical condition as:
Any illness, disease or injury that you have had in the 12 months prior to booking a 
trip(s) where you have;
been prescribed medication and/or
received or are awaiting medical treatment, tests or investigations and/or
been referred to, or had follow up with a specialist and/or
been admitted to hospital or had surgery.
And it explains the following:
If after the trip has been booked you are referred to a consultant/specialist or 
admitted to hospital, you will be covered for cancellation of your trip and we will pay 
travel costs you had paid before this happened. If you still wish to travel you must call 
us and we will tell you if we are able to cover the condition. If we are unable to cover 
the condition but you still wish to go on the trip, we will not cover any claim relating to 
that condition.
The health exclusions section of the policy says: 
1. There is no cover for any claim arising directly or indirectly from the following:
(a) Any medical condition unless it is shown as an 'Accepted condition' or we have 
been told about it and we have accepted it in writing.
And in relation to the excess the terms say: 
In the event of a claim for loss of deposit only we will not pay the first £20 of each 
insured persons claim. 
Has Aviva unfairly declined to settle the claim in full?
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont think Aviva 
has acted unfairly in the circumstances of this case when it declined to refund all of Mr and 
Mrs Rs holiday costs. 
Mr R was referred to his consultant in December 2019. At that point in time theyd paid the 
initial deposit to the tour operator. But the policy terms required Mr R to contact Aviva at that 
stage to inform them of the change in health. I can understand why Mr R didnt think he 
needed to as he was told by his consultant it wasnt anything to worry about and that they 
still planned to go on holiday. However, the policy terms are clear that is what Mr R needed 
to do. 
If Mr R had contacted Aviva to say that hed been referred to a consultant Aviva would have 
excluded this from cover. And once the diagnosis had been made Avivas underwriting 
criteria shows that they wouldnt have been able to offer him cover to travel. So, in summary, 
its fair for Aviva to conclude that they wouldnt have covered Mr Rs condition from 
December 2019 onwards. As Mr and Mrs R made the final payments towards their holiday 
after December 2019 Aviva has fairly declined the claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
Mr and Mrs R have pointed out that had they not cancelled the holiday theyd have got a full 
refund from the tour operator as theyd booked a package holiday and due to Covid-19 they 
would have got a refund. I appreciate the point they are making but Covid-19 was an 
unprecedented event and Mr and Mrs Rs holiday was cancelled in late February 2020, as a 
result of Mr Rs change in health. So, I cant fairly say that Aviva is responsible for this.
Aviva offered Mr and Mrs R £60 in settlement of the claim. I think thats in line with the policy 
terms as Mr and Mrs R paid a deposit of £100 and theres an excess of £20 per person. Therefore, I dont think thats an unreasonable offer in the circumstances of this case. Mr 
and Mrs R should contact Aviva directly if they want to accept the settlement.  
Ive also taken into account the overall service Mr and Mrs R received. I dont think there 
were unreasonable delays. The claim was made in February 2020 and the outcome was 
given in April 2020. Whilst this is longer than Id usually expect I bear in mind that during this 
time Aviva was dealing with the immediate impact of Covid-19. Finally, I can see that Aviva 
did incorrectly refer to Mrs R as being unwell when they issued their final response letter. I 
can understand why this was upsetting in the circumstances but I dont think it impacted on 
Avivas handling of the claim and overall Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs R have been treated 
fairly. Therefore, these points dont change my thoughts about the overall outcome of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman