DRN-4049622
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) dealt 
with a claim under her insurance policy.
Mrs A is the only named policyholder and is represented on this complaint by Mr A. As Mr A 
seemed to mainly deal with the claim and complaint, I will normally refer to him.
What happened
Mrs A contacted AA to make a claim when water came through a ceiling. AA assessed the 
claim and accepted it. AA identified a range of damage to be repaired and appointed 
contractors to carry out the work. Mr A contacted AA because he was unhappy with several 
aspects of the work. AA offered a cash settlement and some compensation to address the 
issues raised.
A few months later, Mr A contacted AA to complain that the coving that had been fitted by 
AAs contractors was smaller than other coving at his property. When AA replied it said the 
coving was of an acceptable quality. It said the ceiling painting works had been included in 
the cash settlement.
When Mr A complained to this service, our investigator upheld it in part. He said there wasnt 
evidence to show works had failed or that any required works werent included in the cash 
settlement. However, he said there were issues with how the claim was dealt with, including 
delays. So, he said AA should pay £300 compensation.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigator and also said there were a number of issues that 
hadnt been addressed. So, the complaint was referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision that explained what I was considering as part of the complaint 
and how I thought the complaint itself should be resolved. Mr A replied to my provisional 
decision with some information I wasnt previously aware of. So I issued a second 
provisional decision on 15 March 2023. 
In my second provisional decision, I explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the 
complaint in part. I said:
For avoidance of doubt, I will again explain what I think is covered by this complaint. I remain 
of the view that the only issues I am considering are about the coving and some cracking to 
a ceiling. Im aware Mr A has said he raised concerns about the quality of the work carried 
out, including issues with some flooring, the standard of the painting and decorating and 
electrical work, plus the impact of these on his and Mrs As living conditions. Mr A also 
raised concerns about an injury to his toe, which I understand is being dealt with elsewhere.
From what Ive seen, items such as the electrical work, the flooring and the standard of the 
decorating were dealt with through a cash settlement AA paid Mr A to rectify its contractors 
works. It also paid him some compensation. I havent seen evidence Mr A complained about 
those issues again. I also havent seen evidence that Mr A raised concerns about his living 
conditions, beyond complaining about his foot injury. So, I dont intend to comment on these 
items any further.
I should note that Mr A said he would be interested to hear the phone calls Ive referred to 
below. Before making my first provisional decision, I requested the call recordings. These 
couldnt be provided, so I based my findings on the other available evidence, which included 
call notes and other records. 
I will now consider the complaint itself. A few months after the cash settlement was paid, Mr 
A contacted AA again to complain about the new coving. I havent been able to listen to the 
phone call, but Ive read the written record of that call. This explained that following the cash 
settlement being made, Mr A had arranged for his own builders to carry out the work. The 
builders told Mr A the coving was 1.5 inches smaller than the existing coving and that the 
ceiling was shoddily painted. Mr A told AA the work wasnt like for like.
So, Ive thought about this. AA replaced some coving as part of dealing with the damage. 
This coving was smaller than other coving at the property. In response to some questions I 
asked, AA checked its records again and found evidence of an email from Mr A confirming 
what had happened with the coving. Its my understanding this email was sent while AAs 
contractors were still dealing with the claim. I have quoted it more extensively than in my first 
provisional decision to include what was said about the ceiling rose. It said:
It was agreed between [a contractor] and myself that if I was to accept a slightly smaller 
coving which would be cheaper to buy (approx. £2,000). In return he will be happy to put 
spotlights in the dining and kitchen and hall, as water had leaked there as well and affected 
the electrical work. As a compromise I was happy to agree. It then came about the 3rd Rose 
he was not prepared to change on the ceiling, by not changing the 3rd rose this would look 
completely out of place with the rest of the work.
When AA investigated the complaint, it also spoke to the contractor, who said Mr A wouldnt 
wait for moulds of the coving to be made and that he had agreed the material choice over 
the phone. 
In response to my first provisional decision, Mr A said he didnt recall making an agreement 
about the coving. He said he did recall a discussion about the ceiling rosette, which is why 
Ive now included more of what was said, and the spotlight and the costs involved. Its my 
understanding that the wording quoted above was sent as an email attachment. Given the 
way this was phrased, this seemed to be what Mr A himself had said. Mr A doesnt now 
recall agreeing to the coving, but I note that he does seem to recall other details about the 
ceiling rose and the spotlights. Mr A also queried who would charge £2,000 for eight lights. I 
havent seen anything that said the spotlights cost £2,000. This was the amount saved on 
the coving. Mr A also said the coving was chosen by the contractor. I dont dispute that, but 
in the context of the evidence Ive considered, this suggests that Mr A agreed to a smaller 
sized coving identified by the contractor. Mr A didnt want to wait for the moulds of it and 
instead agreed the material choice over the phone.
Mr A also queried whether I was saying the cash settlement covered the coving. Before I 
made my first provisional decision, I took time to establish what the cash settlement covered. 
It included painting and decorating costs which, from what I can see, included decorating 
issues with the coving. The cash settlement was paid a few months before Mr A raised 
concerns about the size of the coving.
So, I remain of the view that I think it was more likely than not Mr A was aware of the 
difference in size in the coving and that he agreed to it. Regardless of this, Mr A seemed to 
accept the coving as fitted and it was only a few months later that he complained it wasnt the same size, which I think indicated he was satisfied with it when it was fitted and for some 
time after. Im aware Mr A also complained about the standard of decoration of the ceiling. 
From what Ive seen, the cash settlement included redecorating costs due to the poor 
standard of work by AAs contractors. As a result, I dont currently intend to require AA to do 
anything further in relation to the size of the coving or the ceiling decoration.
In my first provisional decision, I also considered the cracking in the ceiling. At that time, I 
explained AA had said the issues with the ceiling was caused by a leak from the flat roof 
above, which was unrelated to the claim that is the subject of this complaint. AA had referred 
to the flat roof in response to Mr As complaint and I hadnt seen anything that suggested Mr 
A disputed the flat roof. I said I hadnt seen anything that persuaded me AAs assessment 
was unfair or unreasonable. 
However, in response to my provisional decision, Mr A said there isnt a flat roof at the 
property. Ive no reason to doubt what Mr A has said. That being the case, I dont think I can 
reasonably conclude that AA fairly or accurately assessed the damage to the ceiling and 
whether the cracking should be covered as part of the claim. As a result, I currently intend to 
uphold this part of the complaint and to say that AA should send a surveyor to inspect the 
cracking to the ceiling and coving to assess whether it should be covered as part of the 
claim. This includes assessing whether it is the result of poor workmanship when AAs 
contractors carried out the work. AA should also provide Mr A or Mrs A with a clear 
explanation of whether it is covered or not.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 29 March 2023. Both parties replied before that date.
Mr A replied and in summary:
He explained again which ceiling his complaint was about. He said the repairs should 
have been covered by a one-year warranty.
He agreed with AA reviewing the work.
He described issues with the laminated floor.
He said he would like a copy of the call recording where he agreed to the smaller coving, 
as he couldnt remember agreeing to it.
He said the eight spotlights were in exchange for the ceiling rose.
He described some personal issues he had been dealing with and said this might have 
affected how he had responded to some of the points I had raised.
AA replied and apologised if its correspondence suggested the roof was flat. It attached a 
photo of the roof it was referring to, which was of a ground floor part of the property with a 
sloping roof. It said this wasnt below where the leak occurred and wasnt considered as 
related to the peril. It also said that its contractor had previously agreed to redecorate this 
area, which it considered to be reasonable given it was determined to be unrelated damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive considered the additional comments from both 
parties. To be clear, I was aware which ceiling Mr A was referring to as the focus of this complaint. However, Im grateful to both parties for clarifying the situation with the roof and 
for providing a photo.
This doesnt change my view about how the ceiling that is the subject of this complaint 
should be dealt with. Im still not persuaded that the cracking and condition of that ceiling 
was properly assessed by AA when Mr A raised concerns. I remain of the view that AA 
should send a surveyor to inspect the ceiling and to clearly explain to Mr A or Mrs A whether 
it is covered as part of the claim.
Ive also noted Mr As comments about the laminated floor but, as I previously noted, that 
doesnt form part of this complaint. Im also aware Mr A has said hed like to listen to a 
phone call I referred to. As I explained in my second provisional decision, I asked AA for the 
phone calls, but wasnt provided with them. I formed my view based on other records. Ive 
noted Mr As additional comments, but this doesnt change my decision on the size of the 
coving fitted.
Putting things right
AA should send a surveyor to inspect the cracking to the ceiling and coving to assess 
whether it should be covered as part of the claim. This includes assessing whether the 
cracking is the result of poor workmanship when AAs contractors carried out the work. AA 
should also provide Mr A or Mrs A with a clear explanation of whether it is covered or not.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld in part. I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to send a 
surveyor to inspect the cracking to the ceiling and coving and assess whether it should be 
covered as part of the claim. It should provide Mr A or Mrs A with a clear explanation of 
whether it is covered or not.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman