DRN-4053596
The complaint
Miss B complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) unfairly cancelled her 
motor insurance policy and the level of customer service received from it was poor.
Advantage are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of the intermediary. As Advantage have accepted it is accountable for the actions 
of the intermediary, in my decision, any reference to Advantage includes the actions of the 
intermediary.
What happened
In September 2021 Miss B used a price comparison site to obtain a quote for a motor 
insurance policy.
She responded to the questions asked and accepted a policy with Advantage. The policy 
was set up and all the details were sent to Miss B for checking.
In July 2022 Miss B made a claim on her policy after an accident.
When Advantage looked into her claim it said it was unable to offer cover due to her using 
her car for parcel deliveries. It cancelled her policy from 10 August 2022. However it decided 
that it would still cover her claim because she was not using the car for parcel deliveries at 
the time of the accident. It did not offer her a replacement vehicle whilst the repairs to the car 
were taking place.
Miss B said she had told Advantage she declared she delivered parcels, but Advantage said 
it was an online application and it had not spoken to her.  
Advantages claims department did not contact Miss B to provide feedback regarding the  
claim outcome and she had to make calls to it herself. She was also provided with a contact 
number of a department that was closed for the day, meaning she spent more time than was 
needed on the phone in a call queue.
Advantage agreed there had been a lack of communication from its claims department. It 
issued £50 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused.  
As Miss B was not happy with Advantage she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said they were not 
satisfied with Advantages actions. They said it wasnt reasonable for Advantage to cancel 
Miss Bs policy whilst the claim was going on as she relies on her car to travel to work. They 
said Advantage should award Miss B a further £250 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to her.
As both Miss B and Advantage are unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has 
been brought to me for a final decision to be made.
What I provisionally decided -and why
I looked at the policy documents that were issued to Miss B at the policy start date. I saw 
that Miss B declared herself as employed as a car delivery driver. And that the industry was 
courier services. I saw she declared that the car would be used socially, driving to a 
workplace and for business use. 
Advantage said had it been made aware of her true occupation, a parcel delivery driver, and 
that she would be using her car to deliver parcels that it would not have offered a policy as it 
did not cover couriering. It said this was outside its acceptance criteria.
I saw evidence from Advantage that Miss Bs application was completed online. There is no 
evidence of any phone calls with Miss B at the inception of the policy.
I looked at the terms and conditions of Miss Bs policy. On page 26 it says;
General exceptions
Your policy doesnt cover the following:
For any type of delivery, renting out, peer to peer hire schemes (including when the
hirer is using your Car) or use for hire and reward and including (but not limited to)
use as a taxi or for couriering.
I also looked at Advantages acceptance criteria for a policy. It says;
 Acceptance criteria
No driver will require business use in relation to a driving occupation eg courier, fast food 
delivery, motor trade or any other involving hire and reward or commercial travelling.
Within her welcome pack, that included all her policy documents, Miss B was advised to 
check everything was correct and if they were not right to tell it straight away.
I think that if Miss B had read the policy terms and conditions, she would have noticed the 
policy did not cover couriering. However I also think that Advantage should have undertaken 
more thorough checks of the details Miss B submitted, and it accepted, as it has recorded 
she works in courier services. If it had then it would not have offered her a policy. 
I think in this case both Miss B and Advantage failed to effectively check details at the start 
of this policy. However I dont think either party did this deliberately.
 
Advantage made the decision to continue with Miss Bs claim, as she was not using the car 
to deliver parcels at the time of the accident. I think its decision to cover the claim and repair 
her car was fair in the circumstances. It could have looked to void the policy and not cover 
the claim. 
I do not think Advantage was unfair when it cancelled Miss Bs policy on 10 August 2022. It 
did not stop the claim being progressed and completed. Advantage cannot be expected to 
cover for an occupation it was not informed about until after the policy was cancelled. 
I understand Miss B said she used the car to travel to another job and I am sorry that she 
was inconvenienced. However Advantage cancelled the policy because she wasnt covered 
to use the car for courier work. As she didnt declare she had a secondary occupation it 
could not be expected to take this into consideration. Advantage also said it did not offer a 
courtesy car due to the risk that it may be used for deliveries.
I think the £50 Advantage have paid to Miss B for the stress caused due to its lack of 
communication is fair. I do not think Advantage need to do any more in the circumstances of 
this complaint.Therefore, I intend not to uphold Miss Bs complaint and do not intend to require Advantage 
to do anything further in this case.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss B did not respond.
Advantage responded and said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further evidence was submitted to be considered, I maintain my provisional decision 
and do not require Advantage to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman