DRN-3504292
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Landmark Mortgages Limited is pursuing them for a debt in an 
aggressive, intimidating and unfair way. They ask for compensation. Mr and Mrs A are 
represented by a family member in bringing the complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A had a mortgage with Landmark. Mr and Mrs A made lump sum payments 
totalling £35,000 in June 2020. These payments were incorrectly applied to their account 
twice. Mr A called in late June 2020 to check the payments had arrived, and said he 
intended to make a further payment of £25,000. Landmark said only £21,000 was required to 
repay the account. Mr A paid this. Landmark sent letters confirming the account was fully 
redeemed and the charge removed from the property title.
Landmark picked up the error in October 2020. It contacted Mr and Mrs A in early November 
2020 saying they owed £35,000. It took legal action, and Mr and Mrs A say they received 
aggressive and intimidating calls. Mr and Mrs A say this has severely affected their health.
An ombudsman issued a decision saying we cant look into Mr and Mrs As complaint about 
the incorrect settlement figure, which led to the mortgage being redeemed in error and the 
charge removed. But we can look into their complaints about:
contact from Landmark being intimidating and aggressive
it was unfair to take legal action
the way Landmarks solicitors dealt with the complaint.
Our investigator said Landmark had made reasonable attempts to explain what had 
happened and sort out the matter amicably. It set out what steps it would take next  for 
instance to re-instate the charge. She said Landmark hadnt taken unfair or unreasonable 
action.
The representative said the claim had now been settled out of court. He asked for 
compensation for the effect this matter has had on Mr and Mrs As health and wellbeing. 
Mr A has been unable to work due to health problems and Mrs A needs 24-hour health care. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Landmark says it gave Mr A incorrect information about the amount needed to repay the 
loan in mid-June 2020. It says it was wrong to redeem the loan and remove the charge, as 
the loan hadnt been fully repaid. Landmark offered compensation for the upset caused by 
the error, but considers it is still owed a debt which ought to be secured by a charge on Mr 
and Mrs As property. Mr and Mrs A say Landmarks error in mid-2020 means it cant fairly 
ask for repayment of the balance. An ombudsman has issued a decision explaining why this 
isnt something we can look into. I do appreciate that it must have been incredibly 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs A to be told they owed £35,000 several months after they 
thought the mortgage had been repaid.
Landmark wrote to Mr and Mrs A in late 2020 setting out what it intended to do about the 
unpaid balance. This included re-instating the account and the charge on the property and 
calculating payments to repay the mortgage. It said without Mr and Mrs As co-operation it 
would need a court order to re-instate the charge. Landmark says its solicitors sent 
documents to Mr and Mrs A for them to sign so that it could re-instate the charge.
Landmark says between early 2021 and December 2021 (when Mr and Mrs A made their 
complaint) it was unsuccessful in making contact with Mr and Mrs A to discuss these steps. 
It said it only made phone contact with them on one occasion, when they didnt agree to 
complete security questions. Its records support this. I havent seen evidence to persuade 
me that the attempted calls were aggressive or intimidating.
Mr and Mrs A found the situation upsetting, and would have preferred not to be contacted 
about the unpaid balance, which they consider they shouldnt be asked to pay. But I dont 
think it was unfair for Landmark to try to contact them to agree a way forward. 
Landmark was unable to make meaningful contact with Mr and Mrs A about payment of the 
balance. It says Mr and Mrs A didnt sign and return the documents needed for its charge to 
be re-instated. In mid-2021 Landmark instructed its solicitors to apply to court to re-instate 
the charge. Mr and Mrs A contested the application. Its for the court to decide whether to 
grant the orders applied for. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair for Landmark to 
make the application.
I can understand that the situation is upsetting for Mr and Mrs A. They were contacted about 
a debt, received letters from solicitors and were party to court proceedings. This must have 
been stressful. Mr and Mrs A have health problems and I appreciate this made matters more 
difficult for them. But I dont think, based on the available evidence, that Landmark was 
intimidating or aggressive, or that its solicitors were inappropriate in their communications 
with Mr and Mrs A. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Landmark to pay compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman