DRN-4115578
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Lloyd's Insurance Company SA rejected a claim on their 
buildings insurance policy, and about the time it took to make a decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G made a claim on their policy after they noticed cracks in the walls and a drop 
in the floor level at their property.  
Lloyds appointed loss adjusters to consider the claim. They said the problem might be due 
to leakage from a drain or water pipe that had washed away material below the floor, and 
there may be subsidence caused by an escape of water.
When Mr and Mrs G questioned this, a surveyor was instructed to inspect the property. He 
said:
the land next to the property was agricultural and there had been significant changes 
to the irrigation system used there;
while there were problems with the drains, it was almost impossible to determine how 
much any leaks might have contributed to the ground movement;
the timing of events and amount of movement was far more likely to mean the 
problem was due to changes in the ground moisture content, with movement and 
breakage of the drains happening as a result, leading to water leakage.
The loss adjusters didnt agree with the surveyor and said:
given the type of soil at the property, there was no logic to the surveyors argument 
and no scientific evidence to support it;
the original analysis was correct  the subsidence had been caused by escape of 
water and so was excluded.
On this basis, Lloyds said the subsidence was due to leaking pipes or drains and there was 
an exclusion in the policy for subsidence due to escape of water, so there was no cover. Mr 
and Mrs G complained but Lloyds didnt change its position. It did accept there had been 
some delays in dealing with the claim and offered compensation of £400 for this.
Mr and Mrs G then referred the complaint to this Service.
Our investigator said the evidence from the surveyor was more persuasive and on the basis 
of this, the likely explanation was that the escape of water from the drain didnt cause the 
subsidence  rather, the drain cracked because of the subsidence. She asked Lloyds to  
deal with the claim. She said the £400 compensation it had offered for the delay was fair.
Mr and Mrs G accepted the investigators view but Lloyds disagreed and requested an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The policy provides cover for subsidence. So if the problem is due to subsidence then, on 
the face of it, the claim should be covered unless Lloyds can show an exclusion applies.
Lloyds is relying on the comments from the loss adjusters rather than the surveyor, and on 
the basis of their comments is treating this as a claim for escape of water. Although theres 
cover for this in the policy terms, theres an exclusion for subsidence caused by water 
escaping from the home.
There seems no dispute that there has been subsidence, which is covered by the policy. But 
Lloyds says it was caused by an escape of water and theres an exclusion for that. So the 
onus is on Lloyds to explain why the claim should not be covered. 
Neither report can say for certain what caused the problem. I appreciate the loss adjusters 
comments are from someone professionally qualified. But they didnt carry out the same 
level of inspection at the property. 
The surveyor visited the property twice and carried out fairly detailed inspections, including 
removing the toilet, opening up the sceptic tank and a CCTV inspection of the drains. He 
explains why he doesnt think water leakage could have caused the problem, especially 
given that any leakage was limited (Mr G has explained that the property was empty for long 
periods, with the water turned off). His professional opinion is that the subsidence was due 
to changes in the water content in the soil, as a result of change of use of the neighbouring 
land. And he says the drains probably broke as a result of the ground movement, rather than 
the other way round. The loss adjusters report isnt based on the same detailed inspection, 
with pipes being exposed and inspected. 
Theres no conclusive proof either way as to the cause of the problem. But on balance, I 
dont think the evidence Lloyds is relying on is persuasive enough for it to treat this as a 
claim for escape of water and apply the exclusion it has relied on.
Im not satisfied it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances to decline the claim. To 
put things right, Lloyds should accept the claim and go on to consider how to settle it fairly, 
in line with the remaining policy terms.
There was some delay dealing with the claim but Lloyds has acknowledged this and offered 
compensation of £400. Mr and Mrs G didnt accept this at the time though they did accept 
the investigators view that it was reasonable. I agree they would have found any delay 
upsetting but I think the offer of £400 is fair compensation for the distress caused at the time.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Lloyd's Insurance Company SA to 
accept the subsidence claim; and
if it hasnt already done so, pay compensation of £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs G.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman