DRN-4164494
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (RBS) lent to him irresponsibly when 
it gave him a loan that he says he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr H took out a fixed sum loan agreement with RBS in March 2018 for £17,050. The loan 
was intended to pay off Mr Hs business and personal overdrafts and repayable over 91 
months.
Mr H says that RBS failed to conduct sufficient checks on his individual financial position. He 
thinks RBS was negligent in allowing him to take the loan. He asks that RBS pay back all 
interest and any charges he paid and to pay him compensation.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed.
Our investigator reviewed the further points Mr H made but concluded it didnt make a 
difference to their view. As Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain 
why I have reached this decision. Mr H make detailed submissions, all of which I have read 
and considered. I will only refer to those points which are relevant specifically to the matter 
of whether RBS did anything wrong when it gave him the loan.
Mr Hs loan was taken out to pay off Mr Hs business overdraft and his personal overdraft. 
He was a sole trader and, as such, I am satisfied I have the jurisdiction to consider his 
complaint (which has not been disputed by either party).
Mr H had exceeded his business overdraft and it had subsequently expired and become 
due. He had been in discussion with RBS for some time about how to pay back the money 
he owed on his business account. RBS was not willing to agree to the terms Mr H was 
proposing as he hoped to pay off the overdraft over a much longer period than RBS was 
willing to accept. The alternative was to allow Mr Hs business account to enter recoveries 
(effectively to default) and to be made non-operational. Understandably, Mr H didnt want 
this to happen. RBS offered to refinance his overdraft at a lower interest rate, which Mr H 
accepted. And he asked for the amount to be increased to allow him to also pay off his 
personal overdraft. Mr H intended for his personal overdraft facility to be reduced to £1,000.
RBS agreed to this. In March 2018 the loan was drawn down. Mr H later complained that 
RBS did not conduct due diligence on this lending and that if it had it would have realised he 
couldnt afford the loan.
RBS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Hs income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that RBS should fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include things like 
understanding Mr Hs income, the total amount Mr H borrowed, and the length of time Mr H 
had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of 
lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. For smaller sums 
and in the early days of a lending relationship it may be reasonable for RBS to have done 
fewer checks. It follows that for larger sums, over a longer period, more checks may be 
necessary and proportionate.
In Mr Hs case, he already had an existing relationship with RBS because he had both his 
personal and business accounts with the business. This provided RBS with a good picture of 
Mr Hs income and expenditure without detailed external checks. Having said this, I can see 
that RBS did conduct a check with an external credit reference agency and the results were 
recorded as clear. It is likely this refers to whether Mr H or his business had any arrears, 
defaults or County Court Judgments.
RBS also calculated Mr Hs personal and business disposable income each month. It was 
able to do this accurately as it had direct access to those accounts. RBS assessed that Mr H 
had sufficient disposable income each month through each account to cover the repayments 
on the loan.
Mr H has provided copies of his bank statements and I have seen nothing on these to 
suggest the outcome of RBSs assessment was inaccurate. We also asked Mr H for a copy 
of his credit file from the time, which ought to be readily available as the lending was less 
than six years ago, however he hasnt been able to supply this. So, I dont have any 
evidence to suggest that even if RBS did more checks it would have seen anything different.
On this basis, I consider that RBS did sufficient checks to make sure the lending was 
affordable. I dont think it needed to do any further checks and so I consider RBS acted fairly 
in lending to Mr H. 
While I know this will be disappointing for Mr H, it may be helpful if I explain what would likely 
have happened in principle if I had upheld his complaint. 
In such circumstances I would have sought to place Mr H back in the position he would have 
been if he hadnt taken the loan. This would normally involve directing a refund of interest 
and charges paid during the loan term. However, in Mr Hs circumstances I dont think this 
would have been fair. In Mr Hs case, without the loan it is likely his business account would 
have been sent to recoveries. Ultimately, without the debt being repaid in full, this would 
have led to his business becoming insolvent, which was clearly something Mr H was hoping 
to avoid. While it is not clear the same was proposed for Mr Hs personal overdraft, the interest rate on the loan was far more favourable than the interest rate on each overdraft, 
meaning that Mr H was in a better financial position by taking the loan. 
Although Mr H complains that he was forced to take the loan, it was open to Mr H to 
approach any other lender to seek a loan or another way of meeting his obligations to RBS.
I note also that Mr H complains about the way RBS handled his complaint and its response 
to his requests for information. Complaint handling is not in this services jurisdiction and so I 
am unable to make a finding about this.
I understand this will be deeply disappointing for Mr H, but I do not think he lost out as a 
result of anything RBS did wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. It follows that The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC does not 
have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman