DRN-3623855
The complaint
Mr R, a named driver under his daughter Miss Rs policy has complained about how long it 
took Hastings Insurance Services Limited to make requested changes to Miss Rs car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss R bought a car insurance policy through a broker, Hastings. Miss R wanted to change 
the number of No Claims Discount (NCD) years from nine to eight and she wanted to 
change the type of use to business use. Miss R said it wasnt possible to change the type of 
use to include social use when she bought the policy. 
Mr R and Miss R contacted Hastings by phone and email between December 2021 and 
February 2022. Mr R complained to Hastings. He said it wasnt clear when Miss R bought 
the policy that business use would include social use. Mr R said Hastings took over two 
months to carry out the changes and he was unhappy that Hastings intended to charge Miss 
R an administration fee. He wanted Hastings to compensate him for his time and the 
inconvenience caused. 
Our Investigator found that from the online journey it was made clear that business use 
included social use. And he didnt find that Hastings had caused any delay in amending the 
NCD. Hastings had asked for evidence. As soon as it received the evidence, it updated Miss 
Rs NCD promptly under the policy. 
However, the Investigator thought Hastings had poorly handled Mr and Miss Rs requests to 
add business use for Miss R to her policy. He thought the request was clear in several 
emails between December 2021 and February 2022, but Hastings didnt add business use to 
the policy until 21 February 2022. In addition to the emails sent by both Mr R and Miss R, Mr 
R had spent considerable time in phone calls with Hastings trying to resolve the issue. 
The Investigator saw that Hastings had agreed to waive the admin change fee and the 
additional premium it would otherwise cost to add business use. But he didnt think this was 
enough to resolve Mr Rs complaint. To reflect the additional time and inconvenience caused 
to Mr R, the Investigator recommended Hastings pay £150 compensation. 
Mr R accepted the Investigators view. Hastings didnt agree. In summary it says that while 
Miss R and Mr R did make several requests to add business use, they didnt accept the 
admin change fee Hastings was correctly entitled to charge and this meant Hastings couldnt 
make the change. So it says it did enough to resolve the complaint by waiving the admin fee 
and additional premium. 
Hastings wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The remaining issue for me to decide is whether Hastings has done enough to resolve the 
complaint that it caused delay in adding business use to Miss Rs policy. 
In response to Mr Rs complaint about business use, Hastings said the following on 15 
January 2022:
I can see when emailing about this to us the agent did mention theres a £20.00 
adjustment fee however this was not correct as you were in your cooling off period. 
Ive noted on the policy that no adjustment fee is to be charged should you still wish 
to change this.
Its clear from the email messages from the policyholder Miss R and her father Mr R 
between December 2021 and February 2022 that Miss R wanted Hastings to contact her 
father about their concerns. And its clear that despite several requests to add business use 
for Miss R, this wasnt completed until February 2022. Given that Hastings said an 
administration fee shouldnt have been charged for the change anyway as it was within the 
cooling off period, I dont think its fair for Hastings to say the reason why it didnt make the 
changes sooner is because Miss R and Mr R didnt agree to the administration fee. 
So I think Hastings should compensate Mr R for the time and inconvenience caused as I 
think Hastings caused unnecessary inconvenience and delayed adding business use to Miss 
Rs policy. For this I think it should pay £150 compensation to Mr R. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to pay Mr R £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused by its poor service 
and delay. 
Hastings Insurance Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman