DRN-4332193
The complaint
Miss M complained that Royal & Sun Alliance insurance Limited failed to repair her 
Motability car in a timely fashion under her motor insurance whilst noting the alternative car 
wasnt suitable and it failed to communicate with her effectively.
What happened
Miss S was involved in an accident on 2 December 2022 and her car was recovered by a 
nationwide recovery and assistance company. They mislaid her car for some weeks and 
when it eventually located the repairs took until May 2023 to be completed. At that point Miss 
M complained that her car was returned with mould and mud. And she complained about the 
lack of communication and updating throughout the process. 
RSA acknowledged its communication fell short and it ultimately paid her a total of £250 
compensation, but otherwise it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Miss M remained 
dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us. The investigator was off the view that RSA took 
too long to repair the car and it should pay Miss M a further £350 compensation and pay for 
a full showroom quality valet of her car. 
RSA disagreed and it felt it wasnt its fault the repair took so long given industry wide delays 
on getting parts and it was of the view that it was nothing to do with it that her hire car for the 
duration wasnt suitable. 
So, Miss Ms complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Miss M is disabled and is entitled to a Motability car. This is in turn identifies Miss M as 
vulnerable. Plus, because she has her car under the Motability Scheme and that she must 
be insured by RSA, this also puts her in a special position and one where RSA needs to take 
more care. 
Her car and insurance for that car are supplied and insured under slightly different rules. Her 
policy specifically says Miss M would be entitled to an alternative car to provide continuous 
Motability under the Motability scheme. Miss M complained that her alternative car wasnt 
suitable for her needs. This is something Miss M should take up with the Mobility Scheme 
providers direct. In this decision I shall simply deal with the duties of RSA in repairing Miss 
Ms car.
Ive seen no evidence to support what RSA has said that the delay in repairing Miss Ms car 
was due to industry wide problems in sourcing the parts required to repair Miss Ms car. 
There is no detail of what parts couldnt be sourced or what parts were unavailable for 
however long. Whilst I dont discount there may well have been some delays at times, I dont 
consider this explains a delay of over five months to repair Miss M s car which I consider 
was very excessive. More so since it was a Motability car and Miss M was a vulnerable 
customer. Theres also the issue that for some reason, RSA had no idea where Miss Ms car 
was being stored for some considerable time which added to this gross delay in repairing her 
car. 
RSA itself acknowledged its communication with Miss M and its service was poor as it 
ultimately paid her £250 compensation. When Miss M received her car back finally it smelt of 
damp and had mould and the interior was muddy. This is unsurprising given the excessive 
length of time RSA and/or its repairers had her car. RSA will note that Miss M complained 
that the tracker on her car showed her car was being driven and moved about during the 
time when RSA didnt know where it was stored also. RSA didnt always listen to the extent 
of Miss Ms complaints in dealing with her which the investigator detailed following its 
disagreement with his view. I think its fair and reasonable to hold RSA and its repairers 
responsible for the state of her car following the repair and I agree RSA should pay for a full 
showroom standard valet of her car. 
Although Im not holding RSA directly responsible for the courtesy car whilst hers was being 
repaired as thats more right against the Motability provider under provisions of the 
agreement, I do consider its care and service to Miss M to fall well below the standard it 
ought to have endeavoured to provide to her, to include returning a clean car. Therefore, I 
consider the further compensation suggested by the investigator of a further £350 to be fair. 
More so because under all the Motability issues Miss M must be insured by RSA under this 
scheme and isnt permitted to be insured by any other insurer. I consider this confers a 
further duty of care to its consumers including Miss M.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do the following: 
Pay the costs of a full showroom standard valet of Miss Ms car. 
Pay Miss M the further sum of £350 compensation in addition to the £250 it already 
paid her for the trouble and upset it caused her in the excessive delay in repairing her 
car. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman