DRN-3432778
The complaint
Miss P complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay), trading as Aqua, irresponsibly granted her 
credit that she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
NewDay approved a credit card application for Miss P in November 2019. They initially 
provided a credit limit of £450 but in March 2020 they increased the credit limit to £1,200.
Miss P says they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for her.
NewDay disagree. They say that when they approved the credit card application they 
reviewed Miss Ps credit file and found she had no arrears and no County Court judgements. 
They said there was only £3,000 of unsecured debt and they didnt see any signs of financial 
difficulty. And when NewDay increased the credit limit in March 2020 they said their risk and 
affordability data showed Miss P had only been over-limit once and had been making more 
than the minimum payments towards her balance. They thought the information suggested 
the lending was affordable for Miss P.
Our investigator thought that NewDay shouldnt have provided the limit increase in March 
2020 and suggested NewDay should take some action to remedy the situation. But as 
NewDay disagreed the complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Account opening.
I think NewDay completed proportionate checks before approving the credit card. They 
reviewed Miss Ps credit file and gathered some information from her about her income and 
circumstances. That information suggested Miss P could afford the limited credit they were 
offering. There was a default on the credit file, but it was historic and had a low balance, so I 
dont think that should have raised concerns. Miss Ps performance on accounts with other 
creditors was good and shed told NewDay she was living with her parents, so her living 
expenses would have been more limited than most.
March 2020 limit increase.
NewDay more than doubled the credit limit in March 2020 only four months after Miss P had 
opened the account. They say they checked the account performance and Miss Ps credit 
file, and I think those checks were proportionate but I dont think the checks demonstrated 
the increased limit was affordable for Miss P.
I think Miss Ps account history was showing signs that she was having some financial 
difficulty. Shed been at, or beyond, her credit limit for the last three months and the account 
had only been open for four months. I think that showed a level of reliance on the card which 
should have made NewDay aware that it was unlikely she would manage a higher limit in a 
sustainable way. I dont think NewDay needed to gather any further information. I think the 
information it had was enough to suggest the increased credit limit was unaffordable.
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay should have increased Miss Ps credit limit beyond £450, I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that 
limit. However, Miss P has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account so I 
think she should pay this back. Therefore, NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and insurances (which have 
not already been refunded) that have been applied to balances above £450. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss P along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after the March 2020 limit increase regarding this account from Miss Ps credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £450, NewDay should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss P for the remaining amount. Once    
Miss P has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
the March 2020 increase in relation to the account should be removed from her credit 
file. 
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for 
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to put things right in the manner set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman