DRN-4492113
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In December 2022, Mr A received a phone call claiming to be from HMRC. The person he 
spoke to told him he hadnt paid the correct amount of tax and that, if he didnt agree to pay 
immediately, he would have to go to court and could face fines and a prison sentence. As 
Mr A believed he was speaking to HMRC, he then made a payment of £1,997 from his 
Lloyds account to the bank details he was given.
Unfortunately, we now know the call and the person he spoke to were part of a scam.
After the scam was uncovered, Mr A reported it to Lloyds and asked it to refund the money 
he had lost. Lloyds investigated but said it thought Mr A could have done more to protect 
himself from the scam, so it didnt agree to refund the money he had lost. Lloyds did pay 
Mr A £30 as compensation for incorrect information it gave him when he initially reported the 
scam though. Mr A wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so referred a complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think the payment was unusual 
enough that Lloyds should have intervened or warned Mr A before allowing it to go through. 
And they thought Mr A should have had concerns about what was happening. So they didnt 
think Lloyds needed to refund the money Mr A lost. Mr A disagreed with our investigator, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mr A fell victim to, in all but a limited number 
of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Was Mr A vulnerable, under the CRM code?
The CRM code says that, where a customer is vulnerable, the bank should refund them in 
full  regardless of whether any of the exceptions to reimbursement apply. And it defines a 
customer as vulnerable if it would not be reasonable to expect them to have protected 
themselves from the particular scam they fell victim to.
Mr A has mentioned that he was under significant personal and financial pressure at the time 
and that his mental health and wellbeing was being seriously tested by his circumstances. 
And I appreciate that this will have been a difficult time for him, and I dont underestimate the 
impact his situation was having on him. But, based on what Mr A has told us, I dont think his 
circumstances were such that he was unable to protect himself from this particular scam.
So I dont think Mr C met the definition of vulnerable from the CRM code, and so the 
exclusions to reimbursement could still apply.
Did Mr A have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
Lloyds has said Mr A didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment, 
because he didnt do enough to protect himself from the scam. And while I appreciate that 
this was a sophisticated scam where the scammers directed Mr A to a genuine government 
website and spoofed their phone number to appear as if it was coming from a genuine 
government number, I do think there were a number of things about what was happening 
and what he was told that should have caused him significant concern.
The person Mr A spoke to doesnt appear to have known any personal information about 
him, other than his name, and doesnt appear to have gone through any security or identity 
verification process with him during the call. And I think its reasonable to expect a legitimate 
organisation such as HMRC to go through some sort of verification process before 
discussing such serious and personal information as legal charges and fines for tax evasion.
Apart from checking the phone number he was being called from, as he was directed to do, 
Mr A doesnt appear to have done any checks to confirm who he was speaking to. And given 
the seriousness of what he was being told and the amount he was being asked to pay, I 
think its reasonable to expect him to have checked this in some way.
During the call, Mr A also asked if he could call back after speaking with his family but was 
told this wasnt allowed. But this isnt how I would expect a legitimate organisation to behave 
and, as this was the first Mr A had heard about the amount he owed, I think its unusual that 
payment would be so urgent. So I think this should have caused him some concern about 
whether what he was being told was genuine.
The account Mr A was asked to make the payment to was also a personal account, rather 
than an HMRC account  which isnt how I would expect a legitimate organisation to operate 
and so should have caused him significant concern. And despite initially being told he hadnt 
paid the correct amount of tax, the website he was directed to was for paying court fines and he was then told he was paying a solicitor for their services. So I think this lack of 
consistency in what he was being told should also have caused him significant concern.
Mr A was also told not to tell Lloyds the payment was to HMRC, but to say it was for paying 
an invoice. And I think being told to mislead his bank or give it incorrect or incomplete 
information in this way should have caused him significant concern.
I sympathise with the position Mr A found himself in. But I think there were a number of 
things here which should have caused him significant concern. And I dont think he did 
enough, or that the seemingly genuine information he was given should have been enough, 
to satisfy those concerns. So I think Lloyds has established that he made the payment 
without a reasonable basis for belief that it was genuine.
Lloyds has therefore established that one of the exceptions to reimbursement under the 
CRM code applies here, and it does not have to refund Mr A all the money he lost.
Did Lloyds meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Mr A had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment, 
he may still be entitled to a refund of some of the money he lost if Lloyds didnt meet its 
obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings when it 
identifies a scam risk.
But the payment Mr A made here wasnt for a particularly large amount. Other payments had 
been made, both in and out of Mr As account, for similar or larger amounts in the months 
before he made this payment. And the payment didnt leave the balance of his account at a 
particularly unusual level.
So I dont think its unreasonable that Lloyds didnt identify a scam risk here, and I wouldnt 
have expected it to provide an effective warning or intervene in any other way before 
allowing the payment to go through. And so I dont think Lloyds has failed to meet its 
obligations under the CRM code here.
Did Lloyds do enough to recover the money Mr A lost?
We expect banks to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money their customers have 
lost, once they are made aware of a scam.
Lloyds evidence shows it contacted the bank the payment was sent to within a reasonable 
amount of time, to ask for the money to be returned. So it has done all I would expect it to 
have done. But unfortunately, the bank the payment was sent to could not return any of the 
money.
Customer Service
Lloyds has accepted that it gave Mr A incorrect information when he initially called it, and 
that this meant he had to phone again before being able to report the scam. But, based on 
the evidence Ive seen, I think the £30 it has paid him was fair and reasonable compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience this incorrect information caused him. So I dont think it 
would be fair to require it to pay anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman