DRN-1801756
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the amount of compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has 
offered to settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out alongside his credit card.
What happened
Mr M took out a PPI policy alongside a credit card in 1999. The PPI premium was paid by 
adding it to the account balance each month, so interest was charged on it when there was a 
balance on the account. 
Mr M complained to Barclays that the PPI had been mis-sold. Barclays agreed to uphold his 
complaint and offered £8,204.27 in compensation. 
Mr M thought the compensation should be more and he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said what Barclays had offered was fair. Mr M remained unhappy and asked 
for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has agreed to uphold Mr Ms s complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So in 
this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, I am only looking at what is 
fair compensation to settle the complaint. 
The purpose of the compensation for mis-sold PPI is to put a consumer as far as possible in 
the position they would have been in if they had never taken out the policy. Overall Barclays 
has calculated the total compensation due to Mr M for the mis-sold PPI was £8,204.27, 
including some compensatory interest after tax. 
This figure included £2,836.96 that was the total amount of the premiums added to Mr Ms 
account. As the premiums were added to the account each month, when Mr M didnt pay off 
his balance, he paid interest on the premiums. Barclays has worked out he paid a total of 
£4,902.09 at card rate interest on those premiums. Then for any times Mr M was out of 
pocket because he paid more than he needed to clear his credit card balance because of the 
PPI, Barclays has worked out some compensatory interest. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from the compensatory interest 
and Barclays must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for 
one.
Businesses have over a number of years developed methods of calculating compensation 
for mis-sold PPI with credit cards. This takes the approach of restructuring the account to 
show what the account would have looked like if the PPI were removed from it. Each 
business has developed a calculator to adjust the account balance by removing the PPI premiums and the interest that was cause by the premiums being in the account each 
month. 
This then shows an adjusted balance without any PPI. The difference in the actual balance 
and the reconstructed balance is the total of the PPI paid. And removing the amount of the 
premiums gives the amount of the interest paid on the premiums. 
I have seen the calculations that Barclays has carried out for Mr Ms account. This shows the 
premiums and interest calculations and the reconstructed balance without PPI. The results 
indicate that the interest caused by the PPI premiums was in total £4,902.09.  And these are 
the amounts Barclays has included in the compensation it has offered to Mr M. 
Mr M only gets any compensatory interest when his account would have gone into credit if 
the PPI is removed, as he has then paid more than he needed to clear the full balance on his 
account. Until then, he hasnt actually paid back the costs of the PPI, he has borrowed on his 
credit card account, so is getting credit card rate interest on the PPI in the balance, which is 
higher than 8% simple interest that is paid for compensatory interest. 
I am satisfied that the calculations undertaken by Barclays to work out the compensation due 
to Mr M are fair. So, I am not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
I think the compensation Barclays Bank PLC has calculated and paid to Mr M for the mis-
sold PPI is fair, and I am not upholding this complaint that any more compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman