DRN-2041012
The complaint
Mr C complains about poor service from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) in 
handling his requests.
What happened
Mr C complains that Aviva made errors in dealing with his pension policies. He held two 
policies with them which he wished to take as lumps sums. It made a number of errors in 
handling his requests. It sent option forms for one and not the other policy and then said the 
value quoted was too low (the quoted value was around £14,000 when it shouldve been 
around £43,000). It corrected that and made payment plus interest. It later sent him papers 
for someone elses policy which left him uncertain as to whether he was entitled to further 
funds. Aviva finally sent papers for the second policy but delayed payment and sent him 
£150.00 for that delay.
Aviva accepted itd made mistakes and sent someone elses policy details to Mr C. It 
admitted the delay in making the second policy payment and sent £150 for the mistake.
The investigator didnt think Aviva had acted fairly. He said that Mr C hadnt suffered 
financially in being sent the wrong policy information. With respect to the delay in payment of 
the second policy he said Aviva needed to put Mr C back in the position he wouldve been in 
but for the mistake. Aviva should do this by comparing the value that wouldve been paid 
from the second policy using the time line for the first policy, if Mr C has suffered a loss this 
should be paid to him plus interest. In addition, he said the award for trouble and upset 
should be £350 so an additional £200 needed to be paid.
Avia said that it had looked at the values and Mr C had benefited from the delay in payment 
and any interest would be covered by the higher amount paid in late May rather than early 
April 2019. It didnt agree to the increase in compensation from £150 to £350. It said that 
because Mr C hadnt been financially disadvantaged it still felt £150 was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva accepts it has made mistakes in managing the payment of Mr Cs policies. This means  
I am able to make an award for any loss and for any distress and inconvenience.
Aviva has confirmed that Mr C was better off as a result of the delayed payment as a higher 
amount was paid to Mr C than wouldve been the case if it had been paid when the first 
policy was paid. It also confirmed the higher amount would cover any interest that wouldve 
been added. So it does not seem that Mr C has suffered a financial loss as a consequence 
of the delayed payment so I no longer need to consider an award for any financial loss as 
proposed by the investigator.
I do however need to consider an award for distress and inconvenience. I note that Mr C 
was sent details of someone elses policy. The letter was addressed to Mr C and it was only 
on enquiry that it became clear this wasnt his. Receiving the letter caused confusion as to 
whether Mr C was entitled to a further amount of about £30,000 that he hadnt been 
expecting. I can understand this was concerning for Mr C and made him doubtful. I say that 
because I can see that in the weeks prior to this hed been quoted a value for one of his 
policies that was around a third of its actual value. That value was corrected but I can 
understand this context would leave Mr C questioning whether the updated value and other 
information provided was correct. This was then followed by a delay in issuing papers for the 
second policy and then delay in making payment. 
Putting things right
Having considered this context I think these mistakes were distressing for Mr C. I think the 
impact was moderate and an award of £350.00 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr C a further £200 (in addition to 
the £150 already paid) in respect of distress and inconvenience.
This amount must be paid to Mr C within 30 days of the date Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited receives notification of Mr Cs acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 30 days, that it takes 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Mr C this compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman