DRN-3614863
The complaint
Mr T complains that ClearBank Limited treated him unfairly in not honouring a promotional 
offer when he opened a Tide business account.
What happened
Mr T is a sole trader. In April 2021 he tried to open a business account with Tide. Tide 
accounts are provided by ClearBank Limited, who are responsible for answering Mr Ts 
complaint. But for convenience, Ill refer primarily to Tide, as thats who Mr T dealt with.  
In summary, Mr T was hoping to take advantage of a promotional offer, whereby eligible 
customers would receive £100 upon opening an account. The promotional code for this offer 
was APR100.  But Mr T had problems downloading the Tide app and didnt manage to open 
the account within the promotional period. He contacted Tide who, as a gesture of goodwill, 
agreed to honour the offer once the account was active and the offer terms and conditions 
met. 
In July 2021 Mr T successfully opened an account. At this point, Tide was running another 
promotion. So Mr T opened his account using both the APR100 code and an additional code 
which entered applicants into a £25,000 prize draw. This second promotion was called 
BEYOUROWNBOSS, which Ill refer to as BYOB. 
In the autumn of 2021 Mr T contacted Tide to query why the £100 hadnt been credited to his 
account. At different times he was told that hed not met the conditions of the APR100 offer 
because hed not deposited £100 into his account within 30 days of opening. And that his 
account was opened using the BYOB code and only one code could be used per application. 
Mr T was unhappy with Tides response and complained.
Tide didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint, so he came to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold Mr Ts complaint, so Mr T asked for an ombudsman to look at things and issue a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge that this has been a frustrating process for Mr T. I can see 
hes spent a lot of time trying to sort things out and has said he felt hurt and let down by Tide 
in their dealings with him. I appreciate that my decision wont be the outcome he was hoping 
for.  
My role is to decide if Mr T lost out as a result of Tides actions. And if so, how that loss 
should best be remedied. 
Before the APR100 offer closed, Mr T contacted Tide asking for the offer page to be resent 
to him as he couldnt find it.  
Tide sent Mr T a link to the page and recommended he check the terms and conditions. 
Having looked both at the message sent to Mr T and at the webpage, Im satisfied Tide 
made the terms readily available to him and that they were clearly set out. The terms are 
relatively short and in bullet point format. There are two conditions that are particularly 
relevant to this complaint:
To be eligible for the promotional offer, you must not use the code APR100 
alongside any other promotional code, and 
The user must [have] made a valid deposit to the value of £100 within the first 30 
days of Tide account approval.
Mr T wasnt able to open his account within the promotional period, most likely because the 
device he was using wasnt supported by Tide, resulting in difficulties downloading and 
running the Tide app. So as a gesture of goodwill, Tide extended the offer, providing Mr T 
met the offers terms and conditions. 
Mr T accepts he subsequently opened his account using both the APR100 and BYOB 
codes. He also accepts he didnt make the required £100 deposit within 30 days of account 
opening. He told Tide all of the difficulties hed had with the app made him possibly forget. 
He thought Tide werent taking that as a factor in how he accidentally did not pay in £100 in 
30 days. Hes subsequently also told us he didnt realise that entering the BYOB code would 
void the APR100 code. 
I accept Mr T was given different information about why Tide wouldnt credit him the £100 he 
thought he was entitled to. Looking at the terms and conditions, I think both reasons for 
refusal were justified, although I acknowledge Mr T was confused by the change of 
reasoning. But I dont think that alters the outcome. Tide made the requirements sufficiently 
clear to Mr T in the offer webpage and specifically advised him to read the terms and 
conditions. He could only use one offer when opening the account. And if, as he thought he 
had, he used the APR100 code, he needed to deposit £100 into his account within 30 days. 
Mr T didnt comply with these conditions, so I dont think Tide treated him unfairly by not 
crediting him the £100. It follows I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against ClearBank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman