DRN-3759474
The complaint
C, a limited company, has complained about the settlement offered by Covea Insurance plc 
in settlement of its business interruption insurance claim.
Mr J, a director of C, has brought the claim on Cs behalf.
What happened
C runs a business which employs several staff. 
It made a claim to Covea after the business had to close in March 2020 due to lockdown 
restrictions. C furloughed its staff (granted them temporary leave of absence).
Covea accepted the claim and made an interim settlement in December 2021. 
C didnt think it was fair that Covea deducted from the claim settlement £34,349 being the 
amount of furlough payments that C had received from the Government. Covea said it was 
entitled to make such a deduction under the terms of the policy.
C brought its complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt uphold it. He thought Covea 
was entitled to deduct the furlough payments under the terms of the policy.
As C didnt agree, it asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Cs business. Since Covea accepted Cs claim, the issue for me to decide is whether it was 
fair and reasonable to deduct from the claim settlement the amount C received from the 
Government in respect of furlough payments. I think the method of settlement was fair and 
reasonable. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Cs policy say that for business interruption claims Covea will 
pay for loss of gross profit. The settlement is based on the loss of gross profit due to a 
reduction in turnover and an increase in the cost of working less any sum saved during the 
indemnity period in respect of the charges and expenses of the business payable out of 
gross profit as may cease or be reduced in consequence of the damage.
I think the above wording makes it clear that any charges and expenses saved during the 
indemnity period would be deducted from the claim settlement. 
The wages C paid its staff during lockdown were a charge and expense of the business.
Under the Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme (CJRS) employers such as C could apply for 
a grant from the Government to cover a percentage of their wages bill. I understand that C 
received £34,349 in respect of a grant under this scheme which it does not have to repay. 
That represents a saving on its wages bill and that in turn is a saving in the charges and 
expenses of the business. 
I appreciate that normally an insurer would pay staff costs as part of a business interruption 
claim. But it doesnt seem fair to me to require an insurer to pay for an expense of a 
business for which the business has already been compensated from elsewhere.
In reaching a decision, amongst other things I have to consider relevant law and I think the 
following judgment is helpful when considering this complaint: Stonegate Pub Company Ltd 
v Covea Corporate Member Ltd and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm). Thats because, 
one of the issues considered by the Court was whether payments received by a policyholder 
under the CJRS were to be taken into account when calculating the sums recoverable under 
the policy. The Court found that payments received by businesses for furlough should be 
taken into account when calculating any indemnity as they did diminish the insured loss. 
So, I think Covea was entitled under the terms of the policy to deduct the amount C received 
in respect of furlough payments from its settlement of Cs business interruption claim. The 
fact that other uninsured businesses have received payments under the CJRS doesnt mean 
that it was unfair of Covea to take these payments into account.
Although this isnt the outcome C was hoping for, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to increase its settlement.
Mr J has told us he is unhappy about delays on the part of Covea in accepting and 
processing Cs claim. However Cs complaint to Covea was focussed on the deduction of 
furlough payments from the claim settlement. So this issue wasnt specifically raised with 
Covea or addressed in its final response letter. I wont look at this aspect as first the 
substance of the complaint needs to have been communicated to the business so that it has 
a reasonable opportunity to deal with it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman