DRN-2634214
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc, trading as M&S Bank, wont 
refund to her the full amount that shes claimed for an online business training course. Her 
husband is also involved in her complaint.
What happened
Mrs B used her M&S Bank credit card to make three payments totalling £2,392.28 for an 
online business training course  she paid £365.80 in February 2016 and £576.03 and 
£1,450.97 in March 2016. Her husband also made a substantial payment using a credit card 
from another bank.
Mrs B says that she paid for lifetime access to the course but it was shut-down by a 
regulatory authority in 2018. She then claimed a refund of the cost of the course from M&S 
Bank under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Her husband also made a claim to 
his bank but that claim wasnt upheld. 
M&S Bank said that the course was for both of them and that it didnt have knowledge of the 
facts and issues raised but it made an ex-gratia offer to refund £2,392.28 to Mrs B in full and 
final settlement of her claim without any admission of liability. Mrs B wasnt satisfied with its 
response co complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
compensation that M&S Bank has offered was fair. 
Mrs Bs husband, on her behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. He says that Mrs B remains of the view that M&S Bank's offer is not a 
reasonable one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mrs Bs complaint about M&S Bank, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the course provider and 
that M&S Banks response to her claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  
but Im not determining the outcome of Mrs Bs claim under section 75 as only a court 
would be able to do that;
Mrs B and her husband have provided a purchase order showing the payments that 
they made for the course but they havent been able to provide any other 
documentary evidence about the course  Mrs Bs husband says that the contract 
was signed electronically and Mrs B had access to it through her personal account 
on the course providers website until the course was shut-down;
Mrs Bs husband says that he and Mrs B had set up a business partnership and his 
role was an administrative one but the contract for the course was between Mrs B 
and the course provider (and he wasnt a party to it);
although it seems more likely than not on the basis of the information provided by 
Mrs B and her husband that there has been a breach of contract by the course 
provider in these circumstances, the absence of more detailed information showing 
what the course provider had agreed to provide and to whom makes the assessment 
of that breach and any refund that should be made to Mrs B more difficult than it 
would otherwise be;
I sympathise with Mrs B (and her husband) for the issues that theyve had with the 
course but M&S Bank has offered to refund to Mrs B the £2,392.28 that she paid for 
the course using her M&S Bank credit card and I consider that its offer is fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require M&S Bank to also refund to Mrs B the other payments 
that were made for the course; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require M&S Bank to refund to 
Mrs B the full cost of the course and, other than refunding £2,392.28 to Mrs B, I find 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require M&S Bank to refund any other 
amount to Mrs B, to pay her any other compensation or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc, trading as M&S Bank, should 
refund to Mrs B the £2,392.28 that she paid for the course using her M&S Bank credit card.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman