DRN-3705224
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs G complain about the sale of a life and critical illness term assurance policy by 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited, as theyre unhappy with the term of the policy.
What happened
On 1 June 2014 Mrs G applied for a life and critical illness policy, to cover both herself and 
Mr K, online via Tesco Banks website. Tesco was partnered with Aviva, and so the policy 
itself was provided by Aviva. The policy began on 2 June 2014, with a sum assured of 
£150,000, a five-year term and premiums of just over £50 per month. 
The policy finished in June 2019 and at that time, no letters were sent by either Tesco or 
Aviva to remind Mr K and Mrs G that their cover came to an end. Unfortunately, Mrs G was 
diagnosed with cancer in November 2019. She got in touch with Aviva to claim on the critical 
illness cover, and discovered the policy had come to an end. She initially made a complaint 
about the fact Aviva hadnt sent her a letter to remind her that the policy was ending (which, 
for clarity, is not the subject of this decision) and following that, raised concerns about the 
sale of the policy. 
Mrs G said shes unhappy with the term of the policy  shed taken it out to cover her 
mortgage, which had a longer term of 25 years, so thats the term she would have put on the 
application. She didnt remember receiving anything from Aviva after the application and 
feels that a policy of just five years should never have been sold to someone her age.
Aviva didnt reply to the complaint, so Mr K and Mrs G referred it to our service. Aviva told us 
the policy was taken out without advice, so it was Mr K and Mrs Gs responsibility to ensure 
it was what they wanted. An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and didnt 
uphold it  he said that it wasnt Avivas fault that the term of the policy was only five years, 
as the sale was completed without any advice from Aviva. Mrs G didnt agree and so asked 
for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons.
Before I detail my reasons, I want to say how sorry I am to hear of the situation Mrs G is in  
its clearly been a very difficult time. For clarity, in this decision Im focusing on the sale of 
the policy, not what happened in 2019  that is the subject of a separate decision. 
Though its a Tesco branded policy and the application would have been carried out on 
Tescos website, Ive seen screenshots of what the web pages would have said, and they 
state that References to we, us or our mean Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.  Aviva 
has not denied responsibility for the sale, when asked directly. Aviva was also responsible 
for sending Mr K and Mrs G the policy documents after the sale and were the underwriters of 
the insurance. So, Im satisfied that Aviva are the responsible party for the complaint about 
the sale of this policy. 
Both Mrs G and Aviva agree that the policy was taken out online and that Mrs G didnt speak 
to anyone at Aviva or Tesco, prior to the policy going into force. So, the sale was on a non-
advised basis. Whether a sale involves advice or not is important because it shows who is 
responsible for ensuring the policy chosen is the right one for the customers needs and 
objectives. Here, it was Mr K and Mrs Gs responsibility to understand the product they were 
applying for and to choose the policy they thought was best. Avivas responsibility is to make 
sure they set out the information in the application form and the policy documents in a clear, 
fair and not misleading way. 
Having considered a sample application form from the time, and the policy documents Aviva 
sent to Mr K and Mrs G, I think the term of the policy was clear. In the application form the 
length of cover was chosen from a drop-down menu. Prior to payment and agreement to the 
terms, there is a confirmation screen, which Im satisfied clearly set out the term chosen. 
That term was again clearly set out in the policy documents sent by Aviva in the post 
afterwards. 
I understand Mrs G says she didnt receive the policy documents from Aviva after she 
applied. Ive seen a copy of what was sent, and it was correctly addressed. I note that Mrs G 
has told our service she remembers Mr K placing a call shortly after the policy began to 
either Tesco or Aviva. Shes said this was after the cooling off period, and it was to discuss 
the term of the policy. Mr K remembers being told that there would be a reminder letter sent 
at the end of the term and so they could wait until then to take out a new policy, which is why 
they left the policy in place. So, I think its likely Mr K and Mrs G did receive the policy 
documents from Aviva, as otherwise they wouldnt have known to make that call.
Mrs G has said she doesnt think a five-year policy would have been suitable for anyone her 
age at the time of the application. Though I appreciate it does seem unusual, there are many 
purposes for term assurance policies  they arent just used to cover mortgages, but also 
shorter loans. Given it was a non-advised sale, I dont consider it to be Avivas responsibility 
to question the term of the policy being taken out. Ive considered Mrs Gs comments that in 
her experience, other providers have called them after applying for a policy online, to confirm 
the details. However, that level of service is at the firms discretion, so I cant say it was 
unfair of Aviva to have not called Mr K and Mrs G once theyd applied for the policy. 
Overall, the information Aviva supplied was clear, fair and not misleading, and they properly 
implemented the instructions they received. So, Im satisfied that Aviva treated Mr K and Mrs 
G fairly and reasonably during the sale of this policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman