DRN-2304939
The complaint
Mr C complains that when he called Bank of Scotland plc t/a Halifax their voice recognition 
system didnt work.
What happened
On 11 April 2020, Mr C used Halifaxs telephone banking service and tried to use voice 
recognition facility. However, it failed and Mr C was unable to use the voice recognition 
service for 24 hours. 
Mr C called Halifax on 12 April 2020 to log a complaint. He tried to call Halifax several times, 
but the line was bad, and his calls were sometimes disconnected. When he got through to 
someone, he said he was told that hed be compensated for the issue. 
Mr C was also unhappy about the length of time it took for Halifax to investigate the 
complaint and that update letters Halifax said were sent, werent received. 
Halifax investigated the complaint but couldnt find that there were any errors with their voice 
recognition system on that day. Mr C had previously been told in earlier complaints that the 
verification could fail due to background noise or a poor phone signal and this was again 
likely the reason it had failed. 
Halifax couldnt find any phone calls where Mr C was promised compensation and confirmed 
that update letters were sent to the address they had on file for him. Halifax rely on the 
postal service and so said they couldnt be held responsible if any letters werent received. 
Our investigator looked at everything and listened to all the available call recordings and 
agreed with Halifaxs position. Our investigator didnt think there was evidence to show there 
had been a bank error and Halifax had responded to Mr C within the required timescales. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigator and maintained that he was promised compensation. 
Mr C asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done that, Ive reached materially the same outcome as the investigator did and for 
broadly the same reasons. 
Looking at the voice recognition system notes, I can see that Mr C successfully passed the 
verification process eight times between 7 April 2020 and 13 April 2020. Mr C failed to pass 
verification on 11 April 2020 at 23:00 due to a mismatch of voice - so voice recognition was 
blocked on Mr Cs account for 24 hours. 
During this 24 period, Mr C called Halifax 10 times and was successfully verified via an 
alternative method, by confirming the CVV from the back of his debit card. So, Im satisfied 
he was still able to access his telephone banking during this time. The block was lifted on 13 
April 2020 and Mr C successfully passed voice recognition on the same day at 11:19. 
There werent any known issues with Halifaxs voice recognition on 11 April 2020, so I think 
its more likely than not that the recognition failed due to one of the issues Halifax explained, 
such as background noise or poor signal. 
Ive listened to the call recording where Mr C raised his complaint on 12 April 2020. Mr C 
said in the call that he wanted some funds back and it wasnt his fault but an error with 
Halifaxs system. The advisor explained they could note his request, but they wouldnt be 
able to arrange compensation and that would be something the complaints team would need 
to look into. So, I cant agree that Mr C was promised any compensation or funds. 
The call did cut in and out at points and the advisor explained that this might be due to the 
system being overloaded as staff were now working from home. But Mr C was able to log his 
complaint successfully.  
I appreciate Mr C was anxious to know the outcome of his complaint and believed that he 
was promised compensation. Mr C had received compensation from Halifax for issues with 
the voice recognition on previous complaints, so I can see why he might have thought he 
would get compensated again this time. 
Mr C called Halifax and chased for a response to his complaint several times. But staff 
explained that the complaints team would be in touch and certain departments were busier 
than normal due to the coronavirus pandemic. 
Letters were correctly sent to Mr Cs address and Halifaxs final response letter was issued 
on 4 June 2020, within the time period Halifax needed to issue their response. I know Mr C 
said he didnt receive these or at least didnt receive the letters on the day Halifax expected 
them to be received, but I cant hold Halifax responsible for any possible delays the Royal 
Mail might have had. Especially at a time when the Royal Mail were under strain from the 
pandemic. 
Whilst I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C, and I recognise that 
the verification failing would have been frustrating, I cant see that any bank error has 
occurred or that Mr C was promised compensation. So, Im not recommending that Halifax 
do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman