DRN-2907712
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car he acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the car and cancel 
the agreement.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr A entered into a five-year conditional sale agreement for a used car. The 
car was four years old and had a mileage of 106,500. 
In July 2018 the car broke down and was returned to the supplying dealer. A repair to the 
starter motor was required, and this was arranged, and the cost covered by the supplying 
dealer. Following the repair, the dealer arranged for two independent engineers to inspect 
the car. Both of these engineers reported that the repair had been successful, and the car 
was considered to be fault free. The car was returned to Mr A in August 2018.
However, within a few days Mr A complained that there was a noise from the engine. He 
later provided a report from a roadside assistance engineer that cylinder 7 had misfired 
and the car should be taken to a garage for investigation. Mr A complained to Santander 
about the quality of the car.
Santander arranged for the car to be independently inspected. The independent 
engineer reported that the vehicle displayed misfire and fault code relating to inlet 
camshaft bank 1. They recommended the car was further investigated as to the cause. 
Due to the evidence that had been collected, Santander paid for the car to be recovered 
to a specialist manufacturer garage for further inspection.
This garage confirmed the misfire and recommended that the oil be drained for it to be 
checked for metal fillings or other contaminants. It also recommended that the engine be 
stripped down. When the oil was drained and investigated a gritty substance was found 
in it and this was sent off for further analysis. The garage said it hadnt seen any 
evidence of tampering with the oil.
Analysis of the oil found that the grainy solid material in the oil was dirt. It queried 
whether the dirt presence could be via deliberate sabotage.
Due to the condition of the engine, a new engine was required to repair the car. 
Santander decided there was insufficient information to prove the engine oil had been 
tampered with and said that it was the supplying dealers responsibility to replace the 
engine. It upheld Mr As complaint about the condition of the car and said that it would 
close his complaint as a new engine was being fitted. Santander also reimbursed Mr A 
some monthly payments made by him under the agreement.
A new engine was fitted, and the car subjected to a 100-mile road test. A further 
independent report was also arranged by Santander to check the repair. The 
independent engineer reported that the repair had been successful, and said the car 
wasnt displaying any faults. However, before being returned to Mr A the car was also 
examined by a specialist manufacturer garage who reported that the ABC pump was 
noisy. This was replaced and the cost met by the supplying dealer. A further independent 
review of the car was undertaken in February 2019 which confirmed that all the repairs 
had been successful. The car was returned to Mr A.
Mr A contacted Santander in April 2019 to complain that the engine replacement had 
been unsuccessful as a warning light regarding the coolant level had illuminated. 
Santander arranged for a further independent inspection. The independent engineer 
reported that there was a coolant leak and further investigation would be necessary.
Another inspection was undertaken at the request of Santander by a specialist 
manufacturer garage who reported the radiator was leaking.
However, Santander didnt uphold Mr As complaint that the engine replacement had not 
been successful. It said that the evidence from the inspections was that the car had 
been fault free following the new engine being fitted. It also said that Mr A had been able 
to drive the car for around 500 miles since the repairs and this wouldnt have been 
possible if there had been leaks from the radiator.
Mr A was unhappy at Santanders decision and complained to this service. He said he 
now wished to reject the car and unwind the agreement.
Our investigator recommended that Mr As complaint should be upheld. He said the car 
had suffered from numerous faults since Mr A had acquired it although the majority had 
been resolved at no cost to him. Our investigator said he didnt think the leaking radiator 
had to be linked to the engine replacement for Santander to be accountable for the cars 
quality. He said looking at all these faults and repairs he didnt think the car was of 
satisfactory quality and it was fair for Mr A to now reject it.
Our investigator also said that it would be fair for Mr A to be refunded his monthly 
payments made since March 2019 as the car hadnt been usable since that date together 
with the costs of Mr As own investigations in to the condition of the car.
Mr A accepted out investigators view, but Santander disagreed and asked that the car be 
further inspected by an independent engineer. It said the misfire had occurred because 
there were sugar particles in the oil which had resulted in the pistons melting and the 
liners to block, leading to the car requiring a new engine. After the engine had been 
replaced the car had been thoroughly checked and the repair found to have been 
successful with no signs of any leaks. It wanted to investigate the cause of the leak from 
the radiator. Mr A declined to have the car further inspected. 
As the parties were unable to reach agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances. 
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here, the car wasnt new, being around four years old and with a mileage of 106,500. I thought that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would 
expect there to be issues with maintenance and repair over time since components 
of the car would have been subject to wear and tear through use. So, unlike a new 
car, there wasnt the expectation that the car would be fault free.
However, the first issue experienced by Mr A with the car was within only a few weeks 
from him acquiring it when the starter motor was found to need to repair. Id seen this 
was undertaken by the supplying dealer at no cost to Mr A. The dealer had also 
arranged for the car to be inspected by two independent engineers who both found 
the car was running as expected and said the repair had been successful.
Mr A then said the car had broken down again a few weeks later and that this was 
due to cylinder 7 misfiring. Santander had arranged for an independent engineer to 
investigate and they had also found a misfiring fault. This led to the car being 
subjected to a number of investigations including whether the oil was contaminated. 
An issue arose as to whether there was sugar or some other contaminate in the oil 
and how it had got there.
Mr A said he wasnt aware of any suggestion there had been sugar in the oil, and I 
hadnt seen that this was raised with him by Santander. The oil analysis that was 
carried out states that the grit in the oil was dirt rather than sugar though it had queried 
if there had been sabotage. The garage that replaced the engine said that after 
stripping it out they had found sugar in the oil.
But I didnt think it was clear that it was sugar which had been found in the oil as when 
Id looked at the analysis results these had said the gritty particles were dirt. So, I 
thought it was more likely than not that the garage had been of the opinion the grit was 
sugar, but it was in fact dirt. However, I hadnt seen any evidence, or a definitive 
opinion being offered as to how the oil had become contaminated.
Id seen that Santander decided there had been insufficient evidence to say any act of 
sabotage had taken place and so it had required the supplying dealer to cover the cost 
of replacing the engine. So, I thought that it was now unfair for Santander to try and 
revisit that decision particularly as it hadnt raised it with Mr A at the time. If it had, then 
Mr A may have been able to arrange his own investigations to rebut that the car had 
been sabotaged. He had now lost that opportunity. Id also seen that there wasnt any 
new information that had been found about the contamination in the oil which would 
justify Santander having changed its view.
Santander had decided that at the point of supply the car was faulty and had accepted 
that it required a new engine, and this had been the responsibility of the supplying 
dealer. I therefore think it was reasonable to say that Santander had accepted the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality and I hadnt seen enough evidence that would say that 
view had been unreasonable.
The new engine was fitted. Santander then arranged for the car to be checked by an 
independent engineer who said that the repair had been successful. However, a 
second check by the specialist manufacturer garage said it had found the ABC pump 
noisy and this was replaced. A further report then said the car was now fault free.
But a short time later a warning light had illuminated on the dashboard leading Mr A to 
make a further complaint. The car had been looked at again by an independent 
engineer who reported there was a coolant leak that required further investigation. 
They also said that on the balance of probability the conditions are related to recent 
engine work/ replacement. I thought this opinion undermined Santanders view that Mr A wouldnt have been able to have driven the car for 500 miles due to the leaking 
radiator.
Santander also said that the leaks couldnt be linked to the replacing of the engine 
since the car had been checked on three occasions and no leaks had been noted. 
However, I thought it was likely the leaks had occurred over time as the car was being 
used. I thought if the engine had been fitted correctly then the car wouldnt have 
developed further issues in just 500 miles of driving.
Id seen that Mr A had also provided an invoice from a specialist manufacturer 
garage dated July 2019 that stated that it had carried out a detailed inspection and in 
its opinion the engine had been poorly fitted with a loose coolant hose and excess 
water leaks. I thought this evidence supported the opinion of the independent 
engineer who had inspected car in March 2019.
I appreciated Santander wished to further inspect the car, but I thought Mr A had acted 
reasonably in declining this request. The car had already been subject to a number of 
such inspections, the last one being in March 2019 which had confirmed the presence 
of a coolant leak and said this was more likely than not linked to the engine repairs. He 
had also provided the view of a third-party garage as to the quality of the work when 
replacing the engine.
Looking at the evidence, I was satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory condition at 
the point of supply as it required a new engine. I was also satisfied that this repair was 
subsequently unsuccessful and that further faults had now arisen that were linked to 
that repair. And as there had been one attempt already at the repair then it was fair for 
Mr A to now reject the car. So, I intended to uphold his complaint.
In addition to rejecting the car I thought it was fair for Mr A to be reimbursed his deposit 
and the costs he had incurred having the car investigated. I was also aware he hadnt 
been able to use the car since March 2019, so any payments made under the 
agreement should be reimbursed from that date. Finally, I thought Mr A would have 
been caused unnecessary inconvenience and distress dealing with the faulty car and I 
thought compensation of £250 was fair and reasonable.
I asked Santander to do the following: 
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr A. 
Reimburse the full deposit paid by Mr A together with interest at the yearly 
rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.  
Reimburse Mr A the cost of investigations he had carried out amounting 
£404.20 together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr A all his monthly payments made under the agreement from 
March 2019 when the car became unusable. Interest is to be added at the 
yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr A compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
dealing with the faulty car.
Mr A asked me to consider whether the amount of compensation was fair and raised that he 
had incurred legal costs dealing with the car but overall, he said was happy with my 
provisional decision. Santander didnt ask me to reconsider anything Id said.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent been asked to look at any parts of my provisional decision other than 
possibly the compensation amount, Ive still reviewed it carefully. I havent changed my view 
that Mr As complaint should be upheld as I am satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply.
In regard to the amount of compensation to Mr A, I think £250 is fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances. I understand Mr A may be facing costs for seeking legal advice but, as we 
are an alternative dispute resolution service, legal advice isnt needed to make a complaint 
to us. So, I think seeking legal advice was a choice for Mr A and not something he needed to 
do, and I am not asking Santander to reimburse him for those costs. 
For the reasons that are set out above Im upholding Mr As complaint. 
Putting things right
Im asking Santander to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr A. 
Reimburse the full deposit paid by Mr A together with interest at the yearly 
rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.  
Reimburse Mr A the cost of investigations he had carried out amounting 
£404.20 together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr A all his monthly payments made under the agreement from 
March 2019 when the car became unusable. Interest is to be added at the 
yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr A compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
dealing with the faulty car.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr As complaint. Im asking Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr A. 
Reimburse the full deposit paid by Mr A together with interest at the yearly rate 
of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.  
Reimburse Mr A the cost of investigations he had carried out amounting 
£404.20 together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr A all his monthly payments made under the agreement from 
March 2019 when the car became unusable. Interest is to be added at the 
yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement. Pay Mr A compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
dealing with the faulty car.
If Santander Consumer (UK) Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman