DRN-2326959
The complaint
Ms S complains that N.I.I.B. Group Limited refused to accept her rejection of a faulty car. 
What happened
In April 2018 Ms S acquired a second-hand car costing £11,047 funded by a deposit of 
£100, part exchange of £2,500 and the balance by a finance agreement. It was some three 
years old and had done 13,561 miles.
In October 2018 about six months after the sale Ms S says she encountered problems with 
the car. She obtained a diagnostic report dated 23 October from a third party garage which 
confirmed a fault with the motor pwr which required further investigation. The mileage at 
this point was 14,474. Ms S contacted the dealer which had sold the car and it told her to 
take it to a main dealer. She did so and a further diagnostic was carried out. 
On 11 December work was carried out on the IPDM unit at a cost of £ 423.95. The mileage 
was 17,780. Further work was undertaken on 18 December when a new ECM and IPDM 
units were fitted at a cost of £466.38. Shortly after this the car passed its MOT.
Ms S complained to NIIB and it said it didnt have any evidence to conclude the car wasnt fit 
for purpose at the point of sale. It pointed out the car was second hand and as such was 
subject to wear and tear. It also noted the car had been repaired by a third party and neither 
it nor the selling dealer could be held responsible for the quality of that work.
Ms S brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. She obtained confirmation from the repairing 
dealer that the faults were mechanical and not due to wear and tear. The car had 
subsequently passed its MOT and they had no further dealings with Ms S. She noted there 
was no evidence to show that there were any further problems and this was reinforced by 
the fact the car had passed its MOT in December 2019 having done a further 6,917 miles. 
She suggested NIIB pay £940.32 to cover the cost of the repairs and pay Ms S £100 
compensation. NIIB didnt agree and suggested it pay Ms S £250 compensation. It has said 
that the fact the car passed two MOTs since the problem suggested it was durable. It also 
said there was no evidence that there was an inherent fault, nor could it be held responsible 
for the work carried out by a third party. It said the dealer hadnt been given a chance to 
repair the car, but later accepted that this was incorrect. The dealer confirmed that it had told 
Ms S to take the car to a main dealer. NIIB added that the car had covered over 11,000 
miles since the sale which undermined any suggestion it wasnt durable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
NIIB is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car although some three years old when Ms S acquired it had covered a very low 
mileage. Some six months after acquisition it developed a fault. It is not clear if this occurred 
just before or just after the six month period, but I dont consider that is material to my 
conclusion. If it had happened within six months then the onus would have been on NIIB to 
establish the fault wasnt inherent. 
However, I think the circumstantial evidence is sufficient to show that the car was most likely 
faulty at the point of sale. It suffered an electrical fault and having had a diagnostic carried 
out Ms S contacted the selling dealer. It has agreed that it told her to take the car to the 
specialist main dealer. So I dont think it can be said that the dealer wasnt given the 
opportunity to repair the car. 
Nobody has disputed the car had a fault and the repairing dealer has told this service that 
the issue wasnt one of wear and tear. Furthermore, considering the car had only covered 
some 18,000 miles at this point I would find it surprising that the components would have 
simply worn out. On the balance of probabilities it would lead me to the conclusion that the 
faults didnt arise as a matter of wear and tear.
If it wasnt wear and tear and the car had only covered a very low mileage it would point to a 
fault being present at the point of sale. We dont have an independent report, but we do have 
the views of the repairing dealer which is enough I believe to allow me to conclude the fault 
was inherent.
On the matter of durability I agree with our investigator. The fact the car passed its MOT 
subsequent to the repairs being carried out is not evidence of durability. I presume that had 
the repairs not been carried out it would have failed its MOT. Also, it had only covered 
approaching 18,000 miles when it failed and I dont think it could be argued that this 
demonstrated durability.
Putting things right
NIIB should cover the cost of the repairs and pay Ms S compensation.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I direct N.I.I.B. Group Limited to cover the cost of the repairs 
amounting to £940.32 and pay Ms S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
she has suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman