DRN-3493103
The complaint
Mrs K complains, through a claims management company, that Nationwide Building Society 
provided unsuitable investment advice in 2001 when it recommended Mrs K to invest 
£14,000. She mainly felt that:  
she was given inadequate time as a first-time investor to reflect on the advice
her attitude to risk wasn't properly assessed
the level of risk recommended was inappropriate and she was overexposed to 
unnecessary risk 
her needs and objectives werent properly considered.
What happened
In 2001, acting on recommendations made by Nationwides adviser, Mrs K invested 
£14,000 as follows: 
£5,000 into a Guaranteed Equity Bond 
£2,000 into Unit Trusts (split equally between the UK Growth and Balanced funds) 
£7,000 into a Maxi Equity Tracker Stocks & Shares ISA. 
The Guaranteed Equity Bond returned the same amount at maturity as had been paid in and 
the other investments suffered a small loss when they were surrendered around five years 
after Mrs K took them out.
In response to this complaint, Nationwide said the investments fairly reflected Mrs Ks 
attitude to risk and she had been willing and able to invest. It said:  she had capacity, 
understanding and of course (the) right to risk investing for the greater potential rewards 
that equity-based investing allowed - and that she wanted 
Nationwide was satisfied that Mrs K had plenty of time to consider her proposed investment 
strategy and risk choices. Nationwide did not uphold the complaint. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with this response so she brought her complaint to us. 
After considering the complaint, based on all the information he had seen, the investigator 
didnt feel this was a complaint he could recommend upholding. He mainly thought that 
Mrs K had been in a position to invest £14,000  this was around 55% of her available 
cash and he didnt think this was too much as Mrs K was able to build up her savings 
quickly on a monthly basis out of her ample disposable income. He noted that Mrs Ks 
attitude to risk had been assessed as ambitious and felt he hadnt seen sufficient 
evidence to conclude the investments were too risky for her or that she had not had 
sufficient time or opportunity to reflect on the advisers recommendations.
Mrs K didnt agree with the investigator. On her behalf, Mrs Ks representative said (in brief 
summary) that:
as Mrs K was close to retirement age, and her income likely to reduce when she 
stopped working, medium to long term investments were unsuitable for her 
the illustrations provided over a ten year term werent fairly representative and gave 
Mrs K a false impression of the likely value of her investment on surrender
there were no grounds to support Nationwides view that Mrs K was an ambitious or 
high risk investor
she had no previous investment experience
Mrs Ks cash reserve was inadequate and Nationwide had failed to allow for the fact 
Mrs K had a £4,000 an unsecured loan when looking at what she could afford to 
invest
the Guaranteed Equity Bond was based on overseas equities as well as the FTSE 
100 and this was a complex product and not suitable for an inexperienced investor
the tracker fund was 100% equity based and the UK Growth fund was heavily 
invested in equities  increasing Mrs Ks exposure to investment risk. 
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has consented to us looking into Mrs Ks complaint about what happened in 
2001 when it sold the investments, so I am satisfied that I can consider the complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint. Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
I think its reasonable for me to rely substantially on the documentation completed at the 
time, including the fact find and suitability letter, to give me an insight into Mrs Ks 
circumstances and financial situation and an understanding of her wishes and intentions 
when she met with Nationwides adviser in 2001. 
The following information was recorded by the financial adviser about Mrs Ks financial 
situation at the time.
Mrs K was within a few years of state retirement age but told the financial adviser she was 
happily employed in a job shed been doing for many years. She was earning around 
£16,000 per year and it is recorded in the fact find that she did ..not have immediate plans 
to change Mrs Ks husband paid the mortgage and took care of most of the household 
bills. After making allowance for regular outgoings she was responsible for, Mrs K had a 
cash surplus of around £528 per month and more than £25,000 sole personal savings. 
The only liability mentioned was an outstanding car loan  Mrs K owed around £4,000. 
She was also a member of her employers pension scheme and additionally contributed to 
another pension she had set up. 
Mrs K appears to have told the adviser that she wanted to consider investing £14,000 of her 
savings, over the medium to long-term of 5-10 years. I dont know if the adviser discussed 
whether Mrs K had any planned big items of expenditure, or whether this was something she had considered. But, it looks like she could have saved up over £6,000 over the course of a 
year out of her disposable income. I think that amount would have provided a reasonable 
safety net in the event of any large costs arising (keeping in mind also that her husband 
seems to have been the person mainly responsible for household costs). 
Mrs K had also kept back around £11,000 of her savings and I think that would have 
provided a reasonable financial cushion in the event of any emergency or unplanned 
spending needs  even if she had needed to use some of that money towards paying the 
£4,000 unsecured loan outstanding at the time. The financial adviser recorded that Mrs K 
was happy with the level of deposit based savings she would have available after investing.  
All in all, I am satisfied that Mrs K was in a strong enough financial situation to be able to 
invest £14,000.
So Ive gone on to think carefully about what I know about Mrs Ks attitude to risk and 
whether the investment matched Mrs Ks risk approach. 
Mrs Ks representative believes that there are no grounds to support the assertion that 
Mrs K was an ambitious or high risk investor and says that the investments 
recommended were much too risky and complex for Mrs K as a first time investor. It 
doesnt consider that products sold as ten year investments were suitable for someone in 
Mrs Ks position approaching retirement. But the fact find indicates she wasnt planning 
on making any changes to work, so I dont find this was a relevant factor at the time. In 
any event, Mrs K had separately invested into pensions so it seems likely she would 
have had some ongoing income even after she gave up paid employment.  
There is no evidence to show how Nationwide established that Mrs K wanted to take an 
ambitious approach to investment risk, as recorded by the financial adviser during the 
fact find and when making product recommendations. 
In the absence of any more detailed information to help me understand how Mrs Ks 
attitude to risk was assessed, I've considered what else I have been told about Mrs K and 
thought carefully about what conclusions I can fairly draw based on the balance of the 
available evidence.
Mrs Ks representative said that Mrs K was a novice investor in 2001 and I think thats a fair 
assessment. I can see that her savings were mostly in straightforward bank and building 
society accounts and she had £9,000 in a TESSA (an historic tax free savings account). Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that Mrs K was actively involved in buying and selling investments. 
But this alone isnt a reason for me to conclude that an ambitious investment was not 
suitable for Mrs K. Theres no assessment to show how the adviser concluded that Mrs K 
had an ambitious risk appetite but I think its likely it was discussed and theres nothing to 
show that Mrs K raised objection about it at the time, which Id have expected her to have 
done if she disagreed. And I dont think there is any good reason for saying generally that 
only less risky products can ever be suitable for a first time investor. To do so would be to 
effectively deprive first time investors of the opportunity to make bigger investment gains 
than they could otherwise achieve, which seems unfair to me.
Mrs K needed to be comfortable that the level of risk associated with the recommended 
investment reflected her attitude to risk. I can see from the fact find that the adviser 
discussed risks around equities and I think this would likely have helped Mrs K make a 
reasonably informed choice about how much risk she was prepared to take with her 
money. There is also mention of discussion in the fact find document of alternative investment options including National Savings, stakeholder pensions and reducing 
existing liabilities. So it does look like Nationwide explained that lower risk investments 
could still have offered Mrs K potential for growth but at less risk to her capital.
I've thought carefully about what Mrs Ks investment objectives were in 2001. 
It appears that Mrs K told the adviser she wanted: a combination of equity based and 
equity linked investments with a view to capital growth. Also, that she was: happy to 
invest £5,000 of this capital for a fixed 6 year term in return for security on the original capital 
invested."
It is recorded that Mrs K did not feel that National Savings offered the growth potential 
available with Equities, she did not wish to link these funds to her retirement and she wanted 
to maintain an element of liquidity rather than reducing loans. It doesnt look like she wanted 
or needed any income from her investments. 
So it looks to me like Mrs K understood the basic principle that risk was commensurate 
with potential for growth. And that she was prepared to take some risk to achieve her 
objective of capital growth.  
Given her investment objective, I think it probably was reasonable to recommend a risk-
based investment to Mrs K. This offered Mrs K the possibility of earning a greater return than 
she might have expected to receive on funds kept in a deposit based savings account. 
Ive thought about whether the ambitious fund risk rating recorded by the adviser 
reasonably reflected a level of risk that matched Mrs Ks attitude to risk.
Nationwide has explained that it cannot now say how it defined its risk categories in 
2001, except that they were ranked as cautious, prudent, balanced, ambitious, 
adventurous. So I can see that Nationwide assessed Mrs K as being towards the riskier 
end of its range  but still falling short of the highest risk investment it offered.
Although Nationwide cant show me how it assessed Mrs Ks attitude to risk or explained risk 
to her, I have no reason to think that Mrs K wouldnt have understood that investing in 
equities meant she should be prepared to expect a degree of volatility or that she wasnt 
comfortable risking her money this way. 
Thinking about the funds Nationwide recommended, the unit trusts (the £1,000 Mrs K 
invested into the UK Growth Fund and £1,000 into the Balanced Fund) would likely have 
been a mixture of more volatile equities and traditionally lower risk fixed interest 
investments  giving a spread of risk but broadly keeping Mrs Ks exposure to risk overall 
within the sort of range that I think she might fairly have expected. Similarly, the make-up 
of the Investment Tracker Fund isnt known, but it was likely to have been a diverse mix of 
FTSE companies, giving Mrs K the exposure to equities she wanted in order to achieve her 
investment objective of capital growth. 
The Guaranteed Equity Bond, which it seems was for a six years term and tracked a 
number of stock marker indices, guaranteed Mrs K would always get back, at the very 
least, her original capital. And as £7,000 (equivalent to half) of her investment pot was 
invested into this fund, this limited her exposure to the risk of losing money in the equities 
market.Whilst Ive been mindful not to make an assessment with the benefit of hindsight, overall, 
having considered everything, I am persuaded that Mrs K was not exposed to more risk 
than she wanted to take. 
Although she was a first time investor, I think its entirely reasonable to think that Mrs K 
had capacity (and willingness) to absorb some investment loss. Mrs K wanted to invest 
for growth and these investments offered her the potential for this. She wanted to earn a 
greater return than she would receive on less risky savings options. She didnt require 
any income from her investment. She was prepared to invest for the medium term and 
for at least five years. I can understand why Mrs K might have wanted to maximise the 
opportunities for potential gains to grow her capital over the next decade as part of 
planning for her eventual retirement.
To sum up, I think that Mrs K understood and accepted the risk of the funds that 
Nationwide advised her to invest in. If she hadnt been prepared to take that sort of risk, 
she wouldve been aware from her discussion with the adviser that there were other safer 
options for her savings. Taking everything into account, I think Mrs K knew (at least in 
broad terms) she was signing up to a level of risk for these particular investments in order 
to obtain the capital growth she hoped for. 
For the reasons I have set out more fully above, I havent seen enough to make me think 
that these particular investments were too risky for Mrs K or otherwise unsuitable. I am 
satisfied that the recommendation met Mrs Ks identified needs and investment 
objectives and so I cant conclude that Nationwide provided Mrs K with unsuitable 
investment advice.
In 2008, it is apparent that Mrs K was still looking to invest a further £3,600 for a term of 
at least five years. This supports my view that medium to long-term investments were 
likely something she wanted. Ive noted she chose less risk exposure but it doesnt 
change my view about the 2001 investment choice because it was seven years later, 
market conditions had changed and her circumstances had also changed. 
For all these reasons, I am not upholding this complaint.
I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mrs K but I hope 
that setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman