DRN-3602776
Complaint
Mr E has complained that Hillingdon Credit Union Limited (Hillingdon) provided him with 
unaffordable loans. He says it was irresponsible for him to have been provided with these 
loans.  
Background
Hillingdon provided Mr E with an initial loan for £5,000.00 in January 2019. The loan had an 
APR of 12.7% and the total amount to be repaid of £6,667.54, which included interest of 
£1,667.54, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just over £111. 
A few months later, in August 2019, Mr E was provided with a second loan. This loan was for 
£9,500.00, had an APR of 8% and the total amount to be repaid of £14,033.29, which 
included interest of £4,533.29, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just under 
£285. Some of the proceeds from this loan were used to settle the outstanding balance on 
loan 1.
One of our investigators considered Mr Es complaint. She told Hillingdon that it shouldnt 
have provided Mr E with these loans as it ought to have seen that he wasnt in a position to 
repay them. So she upheld the complaint. 
Hillingdon disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans 
review. As this was the case the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision of 24 June 2022 
I issued a provisional decision  on 24 June 2022 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Es complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by setting out that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website and that I used this approach to help me decide   
Mr Es complaint.
I then accepted that Mr Es agreements were unregulated and so Hillingdons obligations 
werent exactly the same as those for most lenders. In particular, I made it clear that I was 
aware as it is a Credit Union, Hillingdons specialist sourcebook is the Credit Unions 
sourcebook (CREDS) rather than the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), as it wasnt 
carrying out credit-related regulated activities when providing these loans to Mr E. 
Nonetheless, as it is a firm authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), I 
considered it fair and reasonable to have expected Hillingdon to have carried out reasonable 
enquiries into Mr Es circumstances to check that hed be able to make the payments to 
these loans. And I also set out that Id only have expected it to have proceeded in the event 
that those reasonable enquiries demonstrated that Mr E could make the payments.
For loan 1, Hillingdons enquiries suggested that Mr E was employed and was earning 
around £75,000.00 a year. During the course of its enquiries, Hillingdon carried out a credit 
search which showed Mr E had total debts approaching £360,000.00. But a significant 
proportion of this (some £260,000.00) was made up of a mortgage. 
Hillingdon also obtained payslips and bank statements from Mr E. Hillingdon also appeared 
to have carried out similar checks before agreeing to provide loan 2. But this time Mr Es 
payslip showed that he had a salary increase to £95,000.00. And the credit checks showed 
that Mr Es total debts had reduced to just over £325,000.00.
So bearing in mind Hillingdon said and it had evidenced that it obtained a significant amount 
of information on Mr Es circumstances, I was prepared to accept that it did carry out 
reasonable enquiries into Mr Es financial circumstances  at least in terms of the 
information requested  before providing these loans.
I then went on to explain that it isnt enough for a lender to simply request information from a 
prospective borrower before deciding to lend to them. So even in circumstances where a 
lender may have requested a reasonable amount of information, it may still be the case that 
it will not have acted fairly and reasonably towards the borrower if it didnt carry out a fair and 
reasonable evaluation of the information it obtained.
Hillingdon said it didnt request Mr Es bank statements to forensically look through them. It 
said that it obtained them to carry out anti-fraud checks, ensure no gambling was taking 
place and ensure there was a linkage between the prospective borrowers credit file and the 
bank account. It further went on to say that its key focus was normally on the application the 
declared income and expenditure and what the credit file showed. 
I thought about what Hillingdon said. But it was unclear to me how it arrived at some of the 
conclusions it did. For example, for loan 1, Mr Es salary was recorded as being £4,675.00 
per month (presumably this was taken from the bank statement supplied despite what 
Hillingdon said the bank statement was used for) even though Mr Es payslip, which was 
presumably requested to prove his income and which rather bizarrely was from May 2018, 
suggested his monthly take home pay was only £4,192.74. 
Furthermore, as our investigator pointed out in her assessment, there was an error in the 
calculation of Mr Es credit commitments too. And in fact Mr Es monthly credit commitments, 
including his mortgage payments but not his credit card payments, were just over £2,100.00, 
rather than just over £1,800.00. 
Even without Mr Es credit cards, it was clear that a significant proportion of his, what was 
admittedly an above average, monthly income was already going towards repaying existing 
debts. And when Mr Es credit card repayments, payments towards sustainably repaying his 
overdraft and his living costs (for his whole family given Hillingdon was on notice he was the 
sole wage earner) were taken into account, I couldnt see how Mr E could have been 
expected to repay this loan without borrowing further. 
In particular, while I noted Hillingdons comments regarding Mr Es overdraft usage, I was 
concerned that Mr Es statements appear to show that he was taking loans from high-cost 
credit providers to stay within his overdraft limit.  
So overall and having considered everything, I was minded to conclude that Hillingdon didnt 
act fairly and reasonably towards Mr E when it provided loan 1, as it provided a loan in 
circumstances where it ought to have realised that hed struggle to repay it.I then proceeded to consider loan 2. I thought it would be helpful for me to start by saying 
that in the ordinary course of events, where a second loan for a significantly higher amount 
was provided eight months after an unaffordable loan, it would normally follow that the 
second loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided. So I understood why our 
investigator went on to conclude that Hillingdon shouldnt have also provided loan 2 to Mr E.
However, given the particular circumstances here, I didnt think that it automatically followed 
that loan 2 was unfairly provided to Mr E. I said this because even though there was a short 
period of time between loan 1 and loan 2, it seemed to me that Mr Es circumstances 
materially changed for the better in this period.
I said this because firstly, the payslip Mr E provided Hillingdon with before loan 2 (which was 
the last one he received before the application) showed that his monthly take home pay had 
increased by almost £1,000.00 (I based this on what Mr Es May 2018 payslip showed as 
this is the proof of income Mr E provided at that stage). Furthermore, the credit check 
Hillingdon carried out on Mr E showed that his external indebtedness had decreased by 
10%. 
I had seen the discussion about the high-cost loans and Mr Es missed credit card payments 
in the period after loan 1 was taken. But it didnt appear as though this had affected Mr Es 
overall indebtedness and Mr E was going to consolidate his existing Hillingdon loan and 
some of his other high cost debts at a much lower interest rate  especially the high-cost 
loans from other providers. So notwithstanding everything else, I was satisfied that this loan 
had the potential to improve Mr Es overall financial position provided it was affordable.     
I looked at the expenditure side of the assessment carried out at the time and also the one 
recreated by our investigator. It was clear that Hillingdons expenditure calculated omitted a 
some of the items Id expect to be included in an income and expenditure assessment. That 
said there was a significant amount of funds left over even allowing for the credit card 
payments Mr E needed to make. 
Furthermore, looking at Mr Es bank statements, while I wasnt seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mr Es expenditure, nonetheless there were significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going out 
from his account. And I dont think that the statements clearly demonstrated that when           
Mr Es committed and contractual expenditure was deducted from his income, the monthly 
loan payments were unaffordable. 
Bearing this in mind, the fact that Mr E was consolidating existing debts at a much lower 
interest rate and what was on the expenditure side of the income and expenditure 
assessment, I was minded to conclude that Hillingdon didnt act unfairly when providing loan 
2 to Mr E. And this left me not intending to uphold the complaint about this loan.
So overall and having considered everything, I intended to issue a final decision which found 
that Hillingdon didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mr E when agreeing to loan 1; and 
that it did act fairly and reasonably when providing loan 2. This left me intending to partially 
uphold Mr Es complaint.     
I finally set out a method of putting things right for Mr E, which I found addressed Hillingdons 
failings and Mr Es resulting loss.
Mr Es response to my provisional decision
Mr E responded to my provisional decision disagreeing with my conclusions (presumably 
only in relation to loan 2). In summary he said:My assessment that his salary increased by £1,000.00 between December 2018 and 
July 2019 was wrong. His payslips show that it only increased by £485.12 during this 
period.
While the overall balance on his outstanding credit commitments did decrease by 
9%, this was a flawed way of looking at his credit commitments as I didnt look into 
the cost of servicing this borrowing.
The investigators retrospective income and expenditure assessment clearly showed 
that the payments were unaffordable. This is supported by his bank statements and 
credit file. So my conclusion that loan 2 was affordable is wrong.
It is correct that he refinanced three higher rate loans with other providers for a lower 
rate loan from Hillingdon but this didnt materially improve his affordability or his 
financial position, it just made it less worse.
Hillingdons response to my provisional decision    
Hillingdon also responded to my provisional decision. It said it wished to raise a few salient 
points, which it felt had been given insufficient consideration in my assessment of loan 1. In 
summary it said:
Mr E was a financial professional. This was not a case of someone who doesnt 
understand finance being misled by a large bank in order to meet targets.
It is a not-for-profit organisation whose very role is to lend at the lower end of the 
financial spectrum, or who are in financial difficulty, or who have issues borrowing 
from other financial organisations in order to assist them.
It is member owned and any monies belong to the members  not shareholders. It 
takes credit worthiness and ability to repay extremely seriously. One of its most 
difficult tasks is telling applicants that they cant have the sum theyve applied for 
because they cant service the repayments.
Although it saw a payslip that was a few months old and showed a lower amount,   
Mr E had a net income of very many times greater than its typical borrower and the 
monthly payment was de minimis compared to that. 
There was a reduction in Mr Es indebtedness of some £40,000.00, which is 
accepted in my provisional decision, in the period between loan 1 and loan 2. This is 
a material reduction which seems to have been overlooked here and calls into 
question Mr Es assertion that he was unable to afford the repayments of £111. Mr E  
clearly had other means which he used to make the substantial reductions he did.
Mr E benefitted from twice yearly bonuses on top of his income and it suspects that 
this is what enabled Mr E to make the reductions he did.      
Mr E repaid loan 2 in full in March 2022 and his account with it was closed at that 
point.My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their further comments. For the sake of clarity and ease of reference, I 
will address each loan separately and the points the parties have made in relation to them 
thematically.
Loan 1
I have thought about what Hillingdon has said about its business model and its customer 
base. I appreciate its role in the community that it serves and the means of its typical 
customer. I can also understand why it might be unhappy that my provisional decision found 
that it acted unfairly towards a customer whose circumstances it considered much better 
than those of its average customer. However, my role here isnt to evaluate Hillingdons 
business model, its overall lending criteria or assess its customer base. 
My role here is limited to deciding whether Hillingdon acted fairly and reasonably towards  
Mr E when providing him with his loans. And while I do think that Mr Es monthly income is a 
relevant consideration, I dont think it automatically follows that loan 1 was affordable simply 
because the monthly payments only took up a small portion of Mr Es monthly income, or 
because Mr Es monthly income was much higher than Hillingdons typical borrower. 
Furthermore, while I appreciate that Mr E was a financial services professional, I dont think 
that this means that this means a lesser standard applied  in terms of Hillingdons 
responsibility to evaluate the information gathered and challenge any clear and obvious 
inconsistencies. For the sake of completeness, Id also point out that I did consider Mr Es 
reduction in his external debt, after loan 1 was taken out, in my provisional decision. In my 
view, its the relevance of this information to the respective applications that Im in 
disagreement with Hillingdon on, rather than it being a case that I have disregarded this 
matter altogether.
The reduction in Mr Es external indebtedness played a significant part in my conclusions in 
relation to loan 2. But I hadnt and still havent seen anything in the information gathered at 
the time of loan 1, which persuades me that Hillingdon clearly knew that this reduction would 
happen. There is some speculation about bonuses Mr E received  which could account for 
the reduction  but there arent any records of any specific amounts being discussed and 
theres no provision for any bonuses documented or accounted for. On the contrary, Ive 
already explained why I think that the information gathered at the time showed that Mr E was 
unlikely to be able to make his repayments without borrowing further or suffering significant 
adverse consequences. 
As this is the case, while Im satisfied that any improvement in Mr Es financial position is 
relevant to my consideration of what happened when loan 2 was provided, I dont think this 
means that Hillingdon was reasonably entitled to conclude loan 1 was affordable, when the 
rest of the contemporaneous information suggests this wasnt the case. 
So while Ive given further consideration to Hillingdons further points, Ive not been 
persuaded to alter my conclusion that it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards Mr E, 
when agreeing loan 1, by providing him with a loan that it ought to have realised was 
unaffordable.   
Loan 2I want to start my reconsideration of loan 2 by clarifying what I said about Mr Es income in 
my provisional decision. In my provisional decision, I said that during the application for loan 
1, for whatever reason, Mr E provided a payslip dated May 2018. It seems to me that Mr Es 
payslip must have been requested to verify his monthly income as I cant see any other 
reason for Hillingdon to have requested this information. Hillingdons response to my 
provisional decision appears to confirm this  albeit it accepts that the information didnt 
match Mr Es declaration and what was showing on his bank statements. 
As the payslip provided was done so to evidence Mr Es income and it showed a take home 
amount of around £500 less than what was declared, I was satisfied that this is the income 
figure Hillingdon ought to have progressed with  not Mr Es declaration. And this played a 
part in my decision to conclude that loan 1 was unaffordable for Mr E.
Mr E is correct in saying that when he applied for loan 2, his income only increased by just 
under £500 from the amount he declared it to be in January 2019. But it was nearly 
£1,000.00 more than the amount on the May 2018 payslip, which Mr E provided in support of 
his application for loan 1 and was the figure I think Hillingdon ought to have used in the 
income and expenditure assessment. That is the reason why I referred to a £1,000.00 
difference not because Mr Es salary did actually increase by this amount between loan 1 
and loan 2. 
In any event, I think its fair to say that a salary increase of nearly £500 a month, net of any 
deductions, coupled with a reduction in external debt of some £40,000.00 is still enough to 
reasonably conclude there was a material difference in Mr Es financial position when he 
made his application for loan 2. And it was this combination of factors rather than Mr Es 
increase in salary on its own, which led me to conclude there was a material improvement in 
his financial position between January 2019 and July 2019.
Furthermore, my consideration of whether loan 2 was affordable was and remains based on 
the income showing on the July 2019 payslip Mr E provided to Hillingdon. Mr E provided an 
up-to-date payslip for loan 2 rather than one that was a number of months out of date. So 
while Ive looked at the additional payslips Mr E has provided this hasnt provided anything 
new, or altered my view in relation to what Mr E was earning at the time of loan 2. 
To be clear, I didnt make the finding that the change in Mr Es circumstances  the reduction 
in external debt and increase in his salary  in itself meant that loan 2 was affordable. The 
finding I made was that the change in Mr Es circumstances between loan 1 and loan 2 
meant that it didnt automatically follow that loan 2 must have been unaffordable because I 
found that loan 1 (which had lower monthly repayments) was. And I instead went on to 
consider what Hillingdon ought fairly and reasonably to have concluded in relation to the 
monthly repayments for loan 2, bearing in mind everything it obtained at the time. 
I accept that our investigator did conclude that loan 2 was unaffordable. And I can 
understand why Mr E prefers her analysis of his position and what Hillingdon ought fairly and 
reasonably to have concluded, rather than mine. But Im afraid that I dont agree with some 
of the information as well as some of the figures the investigator used in her analysis of what 
Hillingdon ought to have included in its assessment of Mr Es monthly expenditure. 
For example, nearly £700 a month is attributed to credit card payments, yet Mr Es 
statements dont show that Mr E was paying anything like that amount each month. And our 
investigator also included information on the full copy of the credit file Mr E has provided 
which doesnt show on the credit check Hillingdon carried out. 
Its also important to note that Mr E signed an application form for loan 2, which included an 
income and expenditure declaration confirming his total monthly expenditure to be just under £3,000.00. Bearing in mind all the circumstances, including Mr Es occupation, I think he 
would have known the information on the application form would play a significant role in 
Hillingdons determination of whether to lend to him. 
As this is the case, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to now include credit 
commitments which didnt show on Hillingdons credit search, or the full amount of the 
transfer Mr E was making to his wife, which wasnt disclosed on the application form, as 
committed expenditure Hillingdon ought to have known about when deciding whether to 
lend. 
Indeed, in my provisional decision I pointed out Mr Es bank statements showed significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going out 
from his account. And, it was and remains the case that I dont think that the statements 
clearly demonstrate that Mr Es committed and contractual expenditure was significantly 
higher than what showed on the credit search, the income and expenditure declaration Mr E 
signed, or that it rendered the monthly loan payments unaffordable. This is especially when 
considered in the context of the reduction Hillingdon would have seen in Mr Es external debt 
and he said he would be consolidating much more expensive debt with the proceeds of this 
loan.
I appreciate Mr E says loan 2 didnt materially improve his affordability or his financial 
situation and that it simply made it less-worse. However, I do think that this is a matter of 
semantics. I agree that a new loan at a lower interest rate wont always materially improve a 
borrowers overall financial situation. But Im mindful of just how much lower the interest rate 
was on this loan compared to the loans Mr E was consolidating. And I cant see how Mr Es 
costs of servicing his overall debt wont have reduced in circumstances where his overall 
indebtedness reduced and the interest rate he was paying on some of his debts reduced too.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied that this loan did place Mr E in a materially better 
position going forward, albeit Mr E might not agree about the degree to which this was the 
case. Furthermore, Mr E setting this loan in full just over halfway into the term, does appear 
to support that this loan did improve his position. Although I do accept and acknowledge that 
its possible this could be to do with other income Mr E obtained, as Hillingdon appears to 
suggest, rather than the effect of loan 2.       
So while Ive given further consideration to Mr Es further points, Ive not been persuaded to 
alter my conclusion that, based on the information gathered, Hillingdon was reasonably 
entitled to conclude that Mr E could afford to make the monthly repayments required for loan 
2. And as this is the case, I remain satisfied that Hillingdon didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably when providing loan 2 to Mr E.
Overall and having considered everything, including the further points made in response to 
my provisional decision, I remain satisfied that Hillingdon didnt act fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr E when agreeing to loan 1; and that it did act fairly and reasonably when 
providing loan 2. This means that Im still partially upholding Mr Es complaint.     
Mr E had to pay interest and charges on a loan (loan 1) which he should never have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr E lost out as a result of what Hillingdon did wrong and 
Hillingdon needs to put things right for him. 
Fair compensation  what Hillingdon needs to do to put things right for Mr E
Having carefully thought about everything, Im satisfied that Hillingdon should put things right 
for Mr E by:refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr E paid on loan 1;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Mr E to the date of settlement
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file as a result of loan 1.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Hillingdon to take off tax from this interest. Hillingdon 
must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 24 June 2022, Im 
partially upholding Mr Es complaint. Hillingdon Credit Union Limited should put things right 
in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman