DRN-3013234
The complaint
Mr W complains about a fixed sum loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go limited, (L2G) 
which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
L2G provided Mr W with a loan of £250 on 26 March 2020. The loan was to be repaid over 
18 monthly instalments of £57.14. If Mr W made each payment when it was due, hed pay 
£1028.52 in total. Mr W has to date, an amount outstanding to repay on this loan.
Mr W says the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been given to him.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 01 July 2021. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks?
As Ive already mentioned, Ive seen how L2G asked about Mr Ws financial circumstances 
by checking his credit file and verifying his income. But Im not satisfied that these checks 
went far enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 18 months and L2G needed to ensure the repayments 
were sustainable over that relatively long period of time;
L2Gs analysis showed discrepancies between its checks and Mr Ws declared 
income and credit expenditure. Both of these discrepancies for income and 
expenditure were wide enough that in both cases they should have caused L2G 
concerns about the true nature of Mr Ws finances. In particular, Mr W declared his 
expenditure to be £200 and after it carried out an assessment, L2G worked out this 
was £1002.50. The discrepancy here is wide enough that it should have caused L2G 
concerns. At least enough to be asking for further information.
For the above reasons, I consider L2Gs checks should have included a full review of Mr Ws 
financial circumstances, including further verification of his expenditure so it could ensure 
that the loan repayments were affordable. So, I dont think the checks it carried out were 
proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
I need to think about what L2G would have seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Mr W has provided bank statements to our service from the weeks before he took the loan 
out and I have had a look at these. I have considered the expenditure on Mr Ws statements 
but there is nothing on there that would suggest to me that he was having problems 
managing his finances or that he would have found the loan repayments unaffordable. 
Mr W has also provided his credit card statements and also a recent credit file. So, I have 
looked at this also to give me a better idea of what L2G would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks.
I have been able to see the results of the credit check provided and although I can see a 
number of settled short term loan accounts from two finance providers, there isnt enough 
there that would indicate to me that the amount of debt Mr W had, or how he was managing 
it, should have led L2G to decline the loan. The short term loans were settled and on 
balance, I dont think I have seen enough that would suggest Mr W had become reliant on 
this form of credit at this stage.
In conclusion, I do think the discrepancy between the information Mr W provided and what 
L2G saw in its credit checks and what it had assessed, ought to have suggested better 
checks. But based on what I have in front of me, including the additional information 
provided by Mr W, I dont think the loan repayments were unaffordable for him at the time he 
was granted the loan. Albeit I do appreciate that finances would have been tight for Mr W. 
So, I am minded to conclude, that further checks wouldnt have shown that L2G lent 
irresponsibly to Mr W.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im currently not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Mr W responded on 1 July 2021 and said he had no further 
points to add. L2G responded on 06 July 2021 and also did not have anything further to 
say.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not made any new points for me to respond to. So, as neither party has 
anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will change the outcome of 
this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional 
decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman