DRN-2149837
The complaint
Miss J complains that a car she acquired on finance from Secure Trust Bank Plc wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Secure Trust Bank trades as Moneyway.
What happened
Miss J acquired the car in July 2019. She says there were problems with it fairly soon after 
that. I dont need to set out here what those problems were, but the dealership tried, 
unsuccessfully, to resolve them by repairing the car. Because it couldnt repair the car, the 
dealership agreed that Miss J could return it and unwind the finance agreement  taking into 
account the use Miss J had had of the car and of the courtesy cars that had been provided 
while repairs were attempted.
Miss J accepted that resolution to the main part of her complaint, but thought that she should 
receive some additional compensation because of the trouble she and her family had been 
put to. She said too that she had had to take time off work and missed university tuition 
because of the time she had spent trying to resolve matters. And, whilst the dealership had 
provided a courtesy car, it was initially only able to provide one that wasnt suitable for her 
and her family. 
Miss J referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered it. She 
didnt think Moneyway had handled the matter as well as it should have done and 
recommended it pay Miss J £350 in recognition of that. Moneyway agreed with her 
recommendation, but Miss K didnt and asked that an ombudsman review the case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, as it should have been. 
That particular issue has been resolved between Miss J and the dealership, however, so I 
dont need to comment further on it. The issue I need to consider is how much, if anything, 
Miss J should receive by way of further compensation. 
Miss J has said that the time she had to spend trying to get the car fixed meant she had to 
take time off work and her studies. She says she lost wages and, in effect, wasted tuition 
fees. Shes also explained the emotional impact this has had on her and her family. 
Ive no reason to doubt what Miss J has said about this. I dont believe however that it would 
be fair to require Moneyway to pay any lost wages or reimburse tuition fees that Miss J feels 
have been wasted. It doesnt seem to me that these are losses which are a natural 
consequence of having to have the car repaired. 
I do however accept that Miss J has been put to some inconvenience as a result of the 
problems, but I agree with the investigator that a figure of £350 is fair in the circumstances.     
Putting things right
I note that Moneyway has accepted the investigators recommendation, but will make a 
formal award in Miss Js favour. That means she will be able to enforce it, should she need 
to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Miss Js complaint, Secure Trust Bank Plc should pay her 
£350. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman