DRN-2187927
The complaint
Mr H says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
him. He says it didnt carry out the relevant checks to see if he could afford the borrowing.
What happened
This complaint is about four payday and three short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Mr H 
between June 2010 and September 2015. There were three chains of lending. Mr Hs 
borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken 
OutDate Repaid Type of Loan Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 10/06/2010 28/06/2010 Payday £200 £265.00
Break in lending
2 08/12/2010 28/10/2011 Payday £250 £327.50
3 28/10/2011 01/10/2012 Payday £300 £382.00
4 04/10/2012 01/08/2013 Payday £500 £650.00
Break in lending
5 01/09/2014 27/02/2015 Instalment £700 £291.66
6 02/03/2015 01/09/2015 Instalment £800 £331.73
7 03/09/2015 29/01/2016 Instalment £800 £306.13
When Mr H complained to Mr Lender it offered to uphold loan seven and repay the interest 
charged.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint in part. They thought Mr Lender shouldnt have 
allowed Mr H to have any further rollovers on loan two at the fourth rollover and onwards. 
And because of the numbers of rollovers on loan two, which suggested Mr H was 
experiencing financial difficulty, they didnt think loans three and four should have been 
given. And for the offer already made for loan seven, 8% interest should be added in line 
with how we would expect a redress calculation to be made. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with the adjudicator but did offer to uphold the complaint about loans 
two to four from the sixth rollover on each loan. It also offered to add the 8% interest to the 
offer it had already made about loan seven. 
We put the offer to Mr H, but he wasnt willing to accept it.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr H didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one, five, six and rollovers one 
to three on loan two shouldnt be upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing 
disagreement about this lending. So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the 
loans were part of the borrowing relationship Mr H had with Mr Lender. So, it is something I 
will take into account when considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
I should first say that I agree there were three chains of lending. And because of the breaks 
in lending after loan one was repaid and before loan two and between loans four and five, I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have assumed that Mr H had overcome the financial 
circumstances that had caused him to take the lending in the first instance.
Mr Lender has told us of the checks it made about Mr H before it agreed to lend to him, and I 
note for loan two as well as an income and employment check it also carried out a credit 
check but because of the time since the loan was taken it no longer has this information 
available. But it has been able to tell us Mr H was in full time employment and his monthly 
net income was recorded as being £1,600 per month. So, on the face of it, I think loan two 
looked affordable.
Mr Lender has said that upon application Mr H opted for the interest only service  which 
allowed him to rollover rather than repay the loan capital. It has also said Mr H was made 
aware he could make additional capital repayments at any time. Mr Lender says this facility 
allows its customers flexibility in repaying the loan and is not a sign of financial difficulty. A 
rollover meant the loan was rolled over in return for monthly payment of additional interest. 
Mr H borrowed £250 at loan two and the cost per rollover was £62.50. 
Mr H rolled over repeatedly between December 2010 and October 2011  a total of ten 
times  incurring the rollover charge each time. I think that when Mr H returned to rollover for 
the fourth time, Mr Lender should have realised that the repayment was providing difficult for 
Mr H and a possible sign he was struggling with his finances. So, at the fourth rollover I think 
Mr Lender should have realised that further lending was unsustainable for Mr H and 
shouldnt have agreed to rollovers four and onwards. Mr H was only managing to service the 
debt and not making any inroads into the capital borrowed. 
The loan agreement shows that the term of the agreement was for 15 days. But it took Mr H 
over ten months to pay off the capital borrowed. So, I think this borrowing behaviour was an 
indication Mr H was struggling to manage his finances and should have responded to Mr Hs 
circumstances sympathetically and positively and shouldnt have allowed him to carry on 
rolling over the loan. 
After Mr H repaid loan two he returned the same day for more borrowing and for a higher 
amount. And again, he rolled loan three over a total of ten times. For loan four, now double 
the amount borrowed at loan one, Mr H rolled over nine times. I think that Mr Lender should 
have realised Mr Hs borrowing behaviour for loan two  the repeated use of the rollover 
facility  was an indication the lending was unstainable. So, it shouldnt have agreed to loans 
three or four.  
Im upholding the complaint about the rollovers on loan two at the fourth rollover and 
onwards and loans three and four and Mr Lender should put things right.
Putting things right
Mr Lender has already made an offer for loan seven, but I include it here for completeness. 
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loan two for rollovers four and onwards 
and for loans three, four and seven;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan two for rollovers four and onwards and 
for loans three, four and seven from Mr Hs credit file; HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman