DRN-4273807
The complaint
Mr F complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited failed to treat him fairly when he 
switched some investments he held in his pension plan.
What happened
Mr F holds pension savings with Standard Life. In January 2023 he made an online request 
to switch some of his pension investments into an alterative investment fund. In order to 
execute that instruction Standard Life needed to first sell some of Mr Fs pension 
investments. Mr F complains that the price point used by Standard Life when completing that 
sale was incorrect.
Mr Fs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the way 
Standard Life had dealt with Mr Fs instruction was correct, and in line with the published 
terms and conditions of the pension plan. So he didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr F didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr F and by Standard Life. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
To decide this complaint I need to consider whether Standard Life has acted in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of Mr Fs pension plan. It seems clear to me that Standard Life 
hasnt communicated with Mr F as effectively as it might have  and that is likely to have 
caused, or at the very least added to, the dissatisfaction that has led to Mr F bringing his 
complaint to us. But the crux of the matter here isnt whether Standard Life has effectively 
explained its actions  it is whether Standard Life has treated Mr F fairly when it sold some 
of his pension investments.
I think it would first be helpful for me to set out my understanding of how the pricing of Mr Fs 
pension investments takes place, and in particular how that is applied to any sales of those 
assets.
The pension investment that Mr F asked to be sold (in order for it to be switched into an 
alternative fund) comprised a range of different underlying investments. So the calculation of 
the price of the investment fund is relatively complex and not performed in real time. Instead 
the price of the fund is calculated once each day, generally around 2pm, and that is then 
used as the price for any sale transactions that take place the following working day.
Mr F provided his switch instruction to Standard Life on Thursday 19 January 2023. The 
relevant terms and conditions for the pension plan set out that Standard Life will actually 
action that request either two or three business days later depending on the time of receipt. 
Mr Fs instruction was received before the relevant cut off time, so he could reasonably 
expect the sale of his investment to take place two business days later  that would be on 
Monday 23 January.
And that is what happened  Standard Life completed the sale of the relevant part of Mr Fs 
pension investments on that day. But to complete that sale Standard Life would need to 
reference the price that had been calculated the previous business day  on Friday 
20 January. And that was indeed the price Standard Life used when it calculated the value of 
the pension investments Mr F had sold.
But there are other factors here that dont entirely align with what Standard Life has told 
Mr F. And I think they are what has caused the greatest confusion to him.
Generally Standard Life explains that the daily calculated price would be notified to investors 
at the start of the following business day, and used for trades on that date. As Ive said 
earlier, the price that was used for Mr Fs transaction was correctly calculated during 
Friday 20 January. But the price was actually declared after the close of business that day, 
and so was available for Mr F to see on Saturday 21 January.
But since no trading would take place on the Saturday, the early notification of the trading 
price for the following working day had no material impact. I accept that it might have caused 
some confusion to Mr F, but I think it actually falls within a reasonable interpretation of the 
start of the following working day. The weekend period simply afforded a much longer 
administrative period between the close of business on the Friday and the start of trading on 
the Monday for the price declaration to be completed and published.
It seems to me that Mr Fs confusion has arisen due to the interchangeable language that is 
used to describe the date of the price calculation. A price calculated on day 1 would be used 
for any sales that were made on day 2. But it would generally be called day 2s price 
although it was calculated on day 1. So I am satisfied that the way in which Standard Life 
has calculated the sale value of Mr Fs pension investments has resulted in him receiving the 
correct and fair value for his holdings.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr F as using the price calculated on 
Monday 23 January would have resulted in him receiving a higher sale value. But the sale 
that was made needed to be finalised before the price calculated on the Monday would have 
been published. So that persuades me that Standard Life was correct in using the current 
price  that calculated on Friday 20 January  as the basis of Mr Fs sale.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Standard Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman