DRN-1591290
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained about UK Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it dealt with 
the auto-renewal of his car home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S was out of the country at the time his policy renewed in October 2018. When he 
returned home in January 2019, he called UKI to query why his policy auto-renewed and he 
was told his policy was set up to auto-renew. Mr S said the car was parked on his drive and 
his neighbour was keeping an eye on it for him, suggesting that he didnt need the policy to 
renew.
During his complaint call it was agreed that Mr S was happy to pay for time on cover up until 
the date he was due to dispose of the car in February 2019. But Mr S didnt agree that he 
should pay the cancellation fee. UKI told him it would set up a complaint about this if he 
wanted to go ahead with the cancellation. However, when Mr S escalated his complaint 
about the cancellation fee it appears the policy wasnt cancelled. 
As things remained unresolved Mr S complained to this service. He also said the policy 
shouldnt have renewed and that he had tried to cancel the policy the year before (around 
January or February 2018) and wanted his premium back for the previous year. 
Our investigator looked into things for him and partly upheld his complaint. She was of the 
view that Mr S had received poor service and awarded £100 compensation. And told UKI to 
cancel the policy on the date Mr S had told them he was due to dispose of the car (28 
February 2019). She also acknowledged UKI hadnt evidenced how the auto-renew had 
been placed on the policy.
Mr S didnt agree. He said again he told UKI he wanted to cancel the policy earlier (in 2018). 
And highlighted that the investigator had acknowledged UKI couldnt show why it auto-
renewed the policy. So, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I agree the complaint 
should be partly upheld. I know Mr S wants his earlier premiums returned and more 
compensation, but I believe the investigator has suggested a fair outcome. Ill explain why.
Mr S has raised a number of wider points, but his main concern is that his policy auto-
renewed when he didnt want it to; that UKI didnt have authority to auto-renew; and that he 
told it he wanted to cancel his policy the year before. And so, these are the issues I will focus 
on.
It is unfortunate UKI cant confirm how Mr Ss policy moved to auto-renew. But it is clear Mr 
S had been with UKI for a number of years and Im satisfied from listening to his renewal call in 2017 that Mr S wanted to get his policy to auto-renew. He told the call handler he would 
like to auto-renew as he didnt want to spend his time and energy shopping round at the time 
of renewal. So, the call handler directed Mr S to the company website so he could do this 
himself and Mr S said he would set this up. It is possible the call taker took the action Mr S 
clearly wanted at that time (and set his policy to auto-renew) or that Mr S went on to set this 
up himself. But either way, Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr S wanted his policy to auto-
renew.
Mr S has also said he called UKI in 2018 while he was abroad to say he wanted to cancel 
his policy. But there isnt any evidence of this and Im surprised Mr S didnt bring this up in 
his detailed call with UKI when he realised his policy had renewed in 2019 if this was the 
case. I wouldve expected him to remember this at that time and to have raised it with UKI 
during this call if he thought hed cancelled his policy earlier. And Mr S would have to have 
his car insured unless he had declared it off road (SORN  Statutory Off Road Notification) 
in any event, as it is a legal requirement.
The main complaint Mr S brought to UKI initially, was that he didnt feel his policy shouldve 
auto renewed in late 2018. He said he wouldve wanted to shop around at that time and 
couldnt understand how UKI was able to use his bank card to take payment. When he 
spoke to UKI he agreed a cancellation date at the end of February 2019, so his car remained 
on cover until it was sold. Mr S told UKI he was due to dispose of the car and so they agreed 
the date of sale as the cancellation date (28 February 2019) which was about a week after 
his call. However, Mr S didnt want to pay a cancellation fee as he felt UKI had made a 
mistake in setting up the policy in the first place.
But Im satisfied Mr S was happy for his policy to auto renew and that is what happened. And 
as Ive outlined it was a legal requirement for Mr S to have his car insured as it wasnt 
declared SORN. I know Mr S feels he didnt need his car insured as he was out of the 
country but that isnt correct. Mr S could have faced serious penalties if his car wasnt 
insured as it wasnt declared SORN. 
So, I dont think UKI did anything wrong when it allowed the policy to renew in 2018 and it 
was on cover for any insurable event (such as fire or theft) throughout. I know Mr S also 
feels that payment couldnt be taken as his bank card had expired. But insurers have 
arrangements in place to help consumers stay insured and automatically update their 
banking details in order to ensure people arent driving uninsured.
I know Mr S also questioned why his legal cover payment was taken separately. And I can 
understand why this was confusing. But UKI has explained it collected this premium 
separately to his motor insurance premium and I dont think that is unreasonable.
Finally, I agree UKI didnt deal with Mr Ss cancellation request in February 2019 very well. It 
was abundantly clear Mr S wanted to cancel his policy at that time as he was disposing of 
his car. I understand there was then a discussion around the cost of cancellation, but UKI 
should have ensured the policy was cancelled and Mr S had a refund. I also agree the 
customer service around this was poor, but I think £100 compensation in acknowledgement 
of the poor service is fair in the circumstances.
I know Mr S doesnt feel he should have to pay a cancellation fee. But as it was a legal 
requirement to have his car insured and UKI was on cover for any claim I dont think it is 
acting unfairly in charging a cancellation fee in line with the policy terms and conditions. But I 
do think it should pay interest, in line with our usual approach, for the time Mr S was without 
his refund in premium.
My final decisionIt follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to refund Mr S his premium from 28 February 2019 and pay 8% simple 
interest on any money owed from that time until the date of payment. And pay Mr S £100 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman