DRN-4045455
The complaint
Mr K complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited hasnt provided him with a 
breakdown of his insurers charges and supporting invoices following a claim made on his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ks car was involved in an accident in 2019. Hastings is seeking to recover from Mr K his 
insurers costs for the claim made by the other driver. But Mr K is unhappy that Hastings 
hasnt provided him with a detailed breakdown of the costs and supporting evidence for 
them. Hastings provided some figures under claim headings, but it declined to provide 
invoices and receipts for data protection reasons. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Hastings provided 
him with some more information about the claim costs. But he thought Hastings had already 
provided Mr K with a reasonable breakdown of the charges. And he thought it wasnt 
unreasonable for Hastings to decline to share the relevant invoices and receipts as they 
were sensitive and contained third party information. 
Mr K was unhappy that there was a discrepancy in the figures provided by Hastings. He said 
he would seek the relevant invoices from Hastings using data protection regulations. Mr K 
asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hastings said Mr K needed to pay £14,321.06 to cover the costs of the claim made in 2019. I 
can understand Mr Ks concern that this is a large sum, and he would want to know that it 
has been fairly charged. 
Mr K wanted a full breakdown of this charge and evidence in the form of receipts and 
invoices. Hastings took four months to provide Mr K with the breakdown. It agreed this was 
not acceptable and it paid him £30 compensation for this. I can understand Mr Ks 
frustration, but I think thats sufficient compensation in the circumstances as the delay hasnt 
caused Mr K any loss.
The breakdown of the insurers outlay for the claim that Hastings provided covered general 
damages, the other partys solicitors costs, medical treatment, hire, the other drivers excess 
and repairs. This amounts to a total figure of £14,321.06. I accept that this figure is slightly 
different to that provided earlier to Mr K. But I think this was due to human error. And the 
total figure above is correct. 
I can see that these amounts were supported by invoices from the other drivers insurer and 
solicitors. And I can see that, as the insurers agent, Hastings scrutinised and challenged 
them where appropriate. So Im satisfied that Hastings is entitled to request this amount to 
be paid to cover the insurers outlay. 
Mr K wanted Hastings to provide him with copies of the relevant invoices and receipts. But 
Im satisfied that Hastings has reasonably explained that its unable to do this as they 
contain sensitive third party information. And it has a duty to protect this under the relevant 
laws. So I dont think its reasonable to expect Hastings to supply this claims documentation 
to Mr K, even in a redacted version. 
I can see that Mr K applied to Hastings for this documentation in February 2023. But I cant 
see that he has provided any further information for me to consider here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman