DRN-3727004
The complaint
Ms B, who is represented by her eldest daughter  who Ill call Mrs A, complains 
Nationwide Building Society should have done more to protect her life savings.
What happened
Ms B has two savings accounts with Nationwide. In 2016 one of the accounts had a balance 
of over £150,000 and the other had a balance of just over £2,000.
In February 2016 Mrs B authorised another of her daughters  who Ill call Mrs C  to act 
as her representative in relation to the account with the smaller balance. Ms B authorised 
Mrs C to make multiple withdrawals rather than giving her authority to do one specific 
withdrawal  which the form allowed Mrs B to do too if she wanted to  of up to £500 in cash 
and up to £5,000 by cheque.
In September 2016 Ms B authorised Mrs C to act as her representative in relation to the 
account with the larger balance  on the same terms.
Mrs A has told us that Mrs C was her mothers carer and that her mother later became 
housebound. Theres no dispute that Mrs C was authorised to act as her mothers 
representative or that she withdrew cash on her mothers behalf.
Mrs A says her mother discovered in December 2021 that almost all of her money  her life 
savings  had been withdrawn by Mrs C in the five-year period that she had authority over 
the two accounts. Ms B complained to Nationwide saying that shed been the victim of 
financial abuse and hadnt consented to Mrs C withdrawing as much money as she did.
Nationwide investigated Ms Bs complaint and said that it hadnt done anything wrong as the 
withdrawals had been made in line with the authority Ms B had given her daughter. Mrs A 
says Nationwide phoned her mother in response to her complaint and said that it was her 
mothers fault that the money had been withdrawn and that Nationwide couldnt be 
accountable for it. Ms B says Nationwide made her mother withdraw her complaint when 
thats not what she wanted to do. Ms B, on her mothers behalf, complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. They said that the 
withdrawals had been authorised and as they werent unusual and within the limits 
Nationwide couldnt have been expected to do more. Mrs A was unhappy with this and 
asked for an ombudsman to look into her mothers complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A is very unhappy with Nationwide, and I can understand why. Shes asked lots of 
questions about why Nationwide didnt spot that her mother might be a victim of financial 
abuse. Shes asked, for example, why no-one in the branch questioned why a third party 
was withdrawing such large amounts from the accounts so regularly. Or why, for example, 
Nationwide didnt spot that £5,000 was regularly transferred from the account with the large 
balance to the account with the small balance and then withdrawn £500 at a time. Or why, 
for example, Nationwide didnt spot that the third party alternated their withdrawals from one 
branch to another in an apparent attempt to avoid detection. Or why, for example, Ms B 
hadnt been seen in the branch for over five years.
Theres no dispute that Ms B authorised her daughter to make withdrawals from both 
accounts and its acknowledged that some of the withdrawals were genuinely for Ms B. Her 
complaint is that Mrs C withdrew more than she had consented to.
Its clear that Ms B needed help with managing her account  it appears she was having 
mobility and health problems and Mrs A says she has been housebound for the last couple 
of years. Im satisfied that when Mrs C came into branch to make withdrawals the staff 
carried out the appropriate security procedures and did ID checks and that Mrs C explained 
to the staff what the withdrawals were for. I can also see that £500 withdrawals from Ms Bs 
account were often made  and that there were larger transactions than this before Mrs C 
was appointed. 
Because of everything Ive just said, I agree with our investigator that the withdrawals would 
not have appeared suspicious or unusual compared to normal account activity. And because 
Ms B authorised Mrs C to make withdrawals from the account  no-one is disputing the fact 
that Ms B did this  Im also satisfied that the payments were authorised. In the 
circumstances, I dont think I can say in this case that Nationwide could have done more to 
protect Ms B from becoming a victim of economic abuse if thats whats happened  thats 
something the police are investigating. Im nevertheless sorry to see the obvious distress 
that Ms B has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society hasnt acted unfairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman