DRN-2671168
The complaint
Mr R complains Assicurazioni Generali SpA (Generali) unfairly declined his income 
protection claim.
What happened
Mr R works as a technician in pharmaceutical production, and is a beneficiary of his 
employers income protection scheme, provided by Generali. The policy is designed to pay a 
benefit after a deferred period of 28 weeks. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows: 
as a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material 
and Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other 
Work or occupation.
Mr R became absent from work in June 2019, and later made a claim against the policy. 
Medical records show Mr R saw his GP in June 2019, and was signed off work for two 
months. The GP diagnosed stress and specified stress at home, noting that Mr R was not 
coping well with the serious illness of a close relative. And he said Mr R appeared slightly 
agitated. 
Mr R saw his GP again in August, and he was signed off work for a further two months. The 
GP again stated stress at home, and referred to Mr R being upset and stressed by the ill 
health of his close family member. The records show the GP thought Mr R appeared 
agitated, and teary. 
Mr Rs employer referred him to see an occupational health physician  Dr S  in October 
2019. Dr Ss report referenced Mr R suffering with stress, and noted the situation regarding 
the ill health of his close relative. He said the main barrier to Mr R returning to work was 
finding a way for his relative to be cared for when he was not present. And Dr S concluded; if 
Mr Rs home situation was more manageable, he would be able to return to work. 
Generali assessed the claim, and declined it, as it said Mr R didnt meet the policy definition 
of incapacity. 
Mr R appealed Generalis decision, and provided further medical evidence in the form of a 
letter from his new GP. He said Generali had referenced the ill health of his family member, 
but he said this had nothing to do with his being off work. He said two different GPs had 
certified him as unfit to work. And he said hed become reclusive and unable to complete the 
basics of his daily routine. 
The letter from the GP, Dr B, was dated February 2020. It said he thought Mr Rs symptoms 
had been triggered by the ill health of a close family member. He said Mr R had reported 
symptoms of panic attacks, poor concentration and sleep, and irritability. And he said Mr R 
was concerned about the safety of himself and others if he returned to work, due to the use 
of machinery. 
Generali said it had reviewed the new evidence, but it still thought the claim should be 
declined. It said it wasnt satisfied Mr R was suffering from a condition which prevented him 
from carrying out the material and substantial duties of his role. 
Unhappy with Generalis response, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said she thought Generali hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining the claim.
Generali accepted the view. However, Mr R disagreed and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. And so, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Generali has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Firstly, I should clarify that my assessment here is not based on whether Mr R has been 
unwell, but rather Ive looked at whether I think the medical evidence supports that he met 
the definition of incapacity set out in the policy. 
For Mr H to make a successful claim, he would need to demonstrate that he was unable to 
perform the material and substantial duties of his occupation, throughout the deferred period, 
due to illness or injury. Having reviewed the available evidence, Im not persuaded Mr R has 
sufficiently evidenced he was incapacitated in line with the requirements of the policy. And Ill 
explain why. 
Generali has said it thinks Mr Rs symptoms were associated with personal stressors, 
rather than an illness. And having reviewed the available evidence, I dont think this 
was unreasonable. Ive noted throughout the medical records, various mentions of 
the health of one of Mr Rs close relatives. 
Both the contemporaneous GP records, and the occupational health report, relate Mr 
Rs condition to stress in his family life. And they offer little commentary on how Mr 
Rs symptoms affected his ability to work. Dr S thought Mr R would be able to work in 
his role, if his family situation was more manageable. 
In his claim form completed in September 2019, Mr R stated the reason he was 
unable to work as stress, and said he couldnt carry out any of the aspects of his 
role. The form asked if there were other factors contributing to his absence, and he 
stated this to be the serious illness of his close relative.
Dr Bs letter, which was written in February 2020, said Mr R had poor concentration 
and was becoming socially isolated. However some of the statements conflict with 
information contained within Mr Rs claim form. Hed answered positively to being able to complete all of the activities of daily living listed, including reading, watching 
television and socialising. 
Dr B also said Mr R had reported symptoms of panic attacks, poor sleep, and 
irritability. And he said Mr R was concerned about the safety of himself and others if 
he returned to work, due to the use of machinery. However this is not reflected within 
Mr Rs claim form, nor the contemporaneous notes recorded after each of Mr Rs GP 
visits. 
Dr Bs letter was written a couple of months after the deferred period ended in 
December 2019. So I think the information Mr R provided in his claim form completed 
in September 2019, and the GP notes completed when he met with his doctor during 
the deferred period, are more reflective of his symptoms and abilities at the time. 
Based on the evidence Ive been provided, I think its fair to conclude Mr Rs stress 
was most likely caused by personal factors, rather than an illness. Stress in itself is 
not considered an illness, but rather a reaction to a set of circumstances. And 
although I accept the symptoms of stress can be debilitating and can often lead to 
more serious mental health problems, Im not satisfied that is the case here. Although 
Mr R was certified unfit for work by his GP, he was not being prescribed medication, 
or referred to see any specialist or for any other treatment, as might be expected in a 
case with severe symptoms. 
Im satisfied by the evidence Ive seen, that Mr R didnt meet the policy definition of 
incapacity throughout the deferred period. So I dont think Generali acted unfairly in declining 
his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Assicurazioni Generali SpA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman