DRN-2114490
The complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK Plc has registered a fraud marker at CIFAS the national 
fraud database.
What happened
Mr O says that he has never had a bank account with Santander or any other bank in this 
country. But that he found out that Santander had registered the marker. He says he has 
been the victim of identity theft and that it should be removed.
Santander says that an account in the name of Mr O was opened in October 2012. It 
operated normally until May 2017 when fraudulent funds of over £28,000 were then paid in. 
It was unable to speak to Mr O about this at the time and it closed his account and added the 
marker. Santander says that it went through its normal application checks when the account 
was opened and has provided a copy of Mr Os foreign passport which it verified. Santander 
says that it couldnt consider removing the marker as Mr O hadnt provided any evidence of 
identity theft.
Our investigator didnt agree that the complaint be upheld. Mr O seemed to accept that it 
was his old passport that Santander had seen. He said he had lost it, possibly as long ago 
as 2006, but he was not able to explain what he had done about that or when it was 
replaced. That passport had been due to expire in 2011 but was marked as extended to 
2016. And there was a residency document from the Home Office dated February 2012 
which Mr O says he knows nothing about. Mr O had given some details of where he said he 
was living during the period the account was opened and of being unable to work due to his 
immigration status. He wasnt paying bills or working and so has no documentation. He said 
he was being supported by someone else who no longer lives in this country. Mr O has 
provided his current passport which was issued in May 2018.
Mr O didnt agree. He maintained that he knew nothing about the residency details shown in 
the old passport. He provided a letter from November 2019 confirming he was given limited 
leave to remain in this country. Only after that time was he in a position to apply for a bank 
account. He wanted this service to pursue this with the Home Office.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid its fairly a matter for Mr O to provide evidence to support his complaint. And it 
wouldnt be appropriate for this service to attempt to discuss his immigration status with the 
Home Office. Im not persuaded in any event that this would resolve the issue here which is 
about identity theft.
Mr O hasnt provided any persuasive explanation of how his original passport was lost and 
what he did about that. Or shown any replacement documents in the period before his 
current passport. Frankly, he has been vague about what he was doing at the relevant time. 
He says in a sworn statement that he did live at one of the addresses listed in the 
information held at CIFAS, but he doesnt elaborate on that or why and when he was there.
So, while Ive considered his testimony carefully he has provided nothing to support this. But 
Santander has what appears to be a genuine application for an account from him which was 
supported with documentation. That account seemed to operate normally for some years 
without any issue coming to light. And Santander has shown that it then received a report of 
fraudulent funds paid into the account and that these were accessed. Mr Os position that 
this wasnt his account means that he says he cant assist in explaining what happened.
Im not persuaded on balance that Mr O has been the victim of identity theft himself. That 
leads me to conclude that in the absence of any other explanation he is fairly responsible for 
the fraudulent activity that took place on his own account. And that there were grounds for 
Santander to close the account.
I also need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, 
Santander needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable 
grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that 
the evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Santander says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr O received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Santander was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Santander needs to have enough information to make 
a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Os account of events and the evidence Santander has provided, Im 
satisfied that Santander had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. 
I know he will be very disappointed when I say that I wont be asking Santander to do 
anything further.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman