DRN-2944916
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q have complained that The Protection Specialist Limited, trading as The Fair 
Trade Practice (Fair Trade) didnt manage their claim for recovery of mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) properly  so they shouldnt be entitled to their full fee.
What happened
At the start of 2019, Mr and Mrs Q asked Fair Trade to investigate whether theyd had PPI 
from a lender Ill call L.  Fair Trade identified three loans  two in joint names, and the third in 
Mr Qs sole name.  Mr and Mrs Q signed letters of authority for Fair Trade to pursue claims 
against L to recover what theyd paid.
At the end of 2020, L told Fair Trade theyd be making refunds to Mr and Mrs Q  and how 
much these would be.  Fair Trade called Mr and Mrs Q to pass on the news.
About ten days later, Mr Q called Fair Trade because he and Mrs Q had received cheques 
from L, which were for substantially less than the figure that Fair Trade had told him.  Fair 
Trade explained the difference was because L had given them the gross figures  which had 
included an amount L had refunded to Mr and Mrs Q before theyd instructed Fair Trade.  
And they (incorrectly) told Mr Q that hed received too much money because they could only 
see two claims, not three.
Mr and Mrs Q complained to Fair Trade about the confusing information and about the way 
Mr Q was dealt with by the call handler.  And they said they thought this meant Fair Trade 
shouldnt be entitled to their full fee. 
Fair Trade investigated the complaint and wrote to Mr and Mrs Q with their findings.  They 
said that they werent upholding it, because theyd relied on information from L to update Mr 
and Mrs Q  but that information was wrong.  But they did acknowledge the calls with Mr Q 
could have been handled better and said theyd give feedback to the staff involved.
Mr and Mrs Q werent satisfied with Fair Trades response and brought their complaint to us.  
Our investigator considered it and concluded that Fair Trade didnt need to do any more to 
resolve it.  He clarified that one of the figures included in Ls letter to Mr Q was wrong  
which meant the offer was never as high as the letter indicated.  But he said, because the 
other figures were right, this typographical error didnt affect the sum Mr and Mrs Q received. 
And he said that the amount Mr and Mrs Q each received was reduced by £1,983.57 
because L had paid that to them earlier.  He confirmed Fair Trade werent aware of that 
when they first spoke to Mr Q  so he couldnt say they were responsible for giving Mr and 
Mrs Q the wrong information.  He noted that Fair Trade hadnt included the £1,983.57 in the 
calculation of their fee  which he thought was fair.
Mr and Mrs Q said that not noticing the typographical error and not notifying them when the 
figures changed showed Fair Trade hadnt managed their claim properly  so they shouldnt 
be entitled to their full fee.
Because Mr and Mrs Q didnt agree with our investigators view, Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Qs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr and Mrs Qs frustration at their situation.  Ive seen theyd planned how to 
spend the refund and compensation they were told theyd receive.  But those plans had to 
be changed when they found out they were going to receive a lower amount.  But I can only 
uphold their complaint if Im satisfied that trouble and upset was the result of something Fair 
Trade did wrong.
Its clear from what Ive considered that Fair Trade didnt give Mr and Mrs Q full details of the 
payment they were going to get during their first conversation with Mr Q  only the headline 
figures.  But thats because they hadnt seen the details of the offer  which the adviser told    
Mr Q during the call.  So Im satisfied Fair Trade gave Mr and Mrs Q the information they 
could during the call.  And they didnt know at that point that L hadnt factored in Mr and Mrs 
Qs previous refund.
Mr and Mrs Q feel Fair Trade shouldve contacted them again before they received their 
cheques  so they knew what to expect.  Ive thought about this.  But I dont think its 
reasonable to say Fair Trade were wrong not to do that.
Ive seen that L sent Fair Trade a copy of the breakdowns theyd sent Mr and Mrs Q, 
showing how the refund was calculated.  The letters to Fair Trade and Mr and Mrs Q have 
the same date.  So I dont think its fair to say Fair Trade must have had prior knowledge of 
how L calculated the payment.
Although theres a typographical error in the letter to Mr Q (two of the figures in amount of 
the total offer are transposed), the letter clearly shows how the refund has been calculated.  
All the other figures used  including the amount to be paid  are correct.  And the refund 
cheques sent to Mr and Mrs Q were for the amounts the letters said theyd receive.  So I 
think its reasonable for Fair Trade to believe that Mr and Mrs Q had the same explanation 
they did about how the payment was calculated.
It seems problems arose because Mr and Mrs Q didnt actually get the letters at the same 
time Fair Trade did  so they were confused because the cheques werent for the figures 
theyd first discussed with Fair Trade.  But those letters were sent by L  who told Fair Trade 
theyd written to Mr and Mrs Q.  I dont think its fair to hold Fair Trade responsible for those 
letters going astray in the post.
Both parties, and our investigator, think that the calls Mr Q made to Fair Trade once he and 
Mrs Q had received their cheques couldve been handled better.  I agree.  But I dont think 
that impacted on the outcome of their claim.  And Fair Trade have addressed the matter 
internally.  So I dont think anything more is warranted
Mr and Mrs Q have said they dont think Fair Trade should be entitled their full fee.  The fee 
is payable if a claim leads to a payment being made to the clients.  
Thats whats happened here.  So the fee is payable.  Id only decide Fair Trade should 
reduce their fee if I thought theyd done something they needed to put right.  I dont think thats the case.  So I dont think they need to do anything more to resolve Mr and Mrs Qs 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Qs complaint about The 
Protection Specialist Limited, trading as The Fair Trade Practice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q and Mr Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman