DRN-2730796
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy because Billing Finance Ltd (Billing Finance) has supplied her with
a car which she believes wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2019, Ms P acquired a used car which she financed through a 36 month hire 
purchase agreement with Billing Finance. The cash price of the car was £2,990, it was 10 
years old and it had travelled around 68,000 miles. 
In September 2019, Ms P contacted the dealership to say she was experiencing issues with 
the power steering and the engine management lights were coming on. As the car was still 
under warranty, they said to bring it to them so they could have a look at it.
Ms P said she continued to experience the issues so in December 2019 she complained to 
Billing Finance. The car was again returned to the dealership but they said they couldnt 
identify the reported issues with the power steering and no fault codes were present. They 
changed the battery as they thought this may be the cause of the engine management lights 
Ms P was seeing. No repair was carried out to the steering and Ms P was told to let them 
know if further issues arose. As this appeared to resolve the issue, Billing Finance, issued 
their final response letter in December 2019 and closed the complaint.
In November 2020, Ms P complained to Billing Finance that there were further issues with 
the car including the steering. She said it had been ongoing for months, although 
intermittently. They arranged for an independent inspection to be carried out in relation to 
these reported issues and was also asked to look at the cam shaft and rear axle. The 
engineer found no faults with the steering nor engine. He concluded that the camshaft had 
been confused with the timing belt, the timing belt was due to be changed and there was 
severe corrosion to the rear axle. It said due to the time that had passed and the mileage 
covered since Ms P acquired the car, the faults werent present when it was supplied. 
In answering her complaint, Billing Finance said the issue with the steering had been 
inspected by the dealership in 2019 and no fault was found but they accepted a new battery 
had been fitted. Based on the findings of the independent inspection and the fact the car had 
travelled over 21,000 miles since being supplied, they said they were unable to assist Ms P. 
Unhappy with their response, Ms P referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They said based on the evidence provided by Ms P, 
they believed there were faults with the car. However based on the findings of the inspection 
and the number of miles covered by Ms P, they thought it was unlikely the earlier repair in 
2019 had failed and the faults were a result of the cars age and mileage.
Ms P disagreed. She said there is no evidence the issues were repaired by the dealership in 
2019 and these faults were present since she acquired the car, although intermittently. She 
said she has since had further issues with the car meaning its now not safe to drive and the 
estimated repair costs exceed £4,600, which is more than the car is worth.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint, Ill explain why. 
At this point, I would like to say that I note Ms P has raised a number of issues and although 
I may not address each one, Ive carefully considered them all. In this decision I will focus on 
the issues that I believe to be relevant to the overall outcome of the complaint.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement - so I can consider a
complaint relating to it. Billing Finance is the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about the supply and the quality of 
Ms Ps car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is the relevant law that applies here and it implies a term into 
the contract that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the 
goods would need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory  taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would take into account might include things like the age and mileage at the time of supply 
and the cars history.
When looking at this case, I must determine whether the car provided to Ms P was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her in August 2019. Ms P acquired a car that was 
10 years old and had travelled around 68,000 miles. So I believe its fair to say that a 
reasonable person would expect that parts of the car are likely to have already suffered 
significant wear and tear meaning it might need repairs and/or maintenance sooner than a 
brand-new car or one that was less travelled. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence provided by Billing Finance and Ms P. Ms P has 
provided videos showing a number of warning lights displaying on the dashboard. There is a 
job card from November 2020 which details a fault with the steering and a repair was carried 
out to the wiring. The independent inspection makes reference to issues with the timing belt, 
cam shaft and rear axle. A car health check carried out in November 2020 shows a number 
of faults such as a gearbox oil leak, handbrake cable bracket broken, daytime light fault and 
timing belt needs replacing. Similar to the independent inspection, the car health check didnt 
report any issues with the steering which suggests that particular fault is likely to be 
intermittent as Ms P described. Based on this evidence, its clear there are faults with the 
car.
Although I find this to be the case, I must consider whether these faults were present when 
the car was supplied and Ive already set out the reasonable expectations when acquiring a 
second hand car. 
Its unclear what happened when the car was returned to the dealership in September 2019 
in regards to the steering and whether a repair was carried out. I must bear in mind that the 
car was 10 years old and had covered a lot of miles so its to be expected parts of the car 
would be worn. While I accept there might have been an intermittent issue with the steering, 
there is insufficient evidence that it was defective or significantly defective to render the car 
of unsatisfactory quality when supplied. I say this because Ms P was able to travel a further 
20,000 miles in the car which is a significant amount. On balance, Im also not persuaded if 
there is a current fault with the steering its linked to anything inherent.Having looked at Billing Finances contact notes, I can see Ms P contacted them a couple of  
times in June and September 2020 about the agreement and to let them know about her 
change of contact details. Had there been ongoing issues with the car including the steering, 
I think it wouldve been reasonable for her to have let them know but there is no evidence 
this happened. 
In terms of the other faults relating to the camshaft, timing belt and rear axle, Im persuaded 
by the findings of the independent inspection report as it was carried out by an experienced 
car mechanic and he concluded the faults werent present at supply. On that basis, I believe 
they were a result of general wear and tear.  He found no fault with the steering or engine. 
In regards to the corroded rear axle, given the age of the car when it was supplied I believe 
its reasonable to expect some parts of the car wouldve had signs of corrosion but that in 
itself doesnt necessarily mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Ive reviewed the cars 
MOT history and in May 2019, which is a few months before Ms P acquired it, the car 
passed but the advisory said the rear suspension arm was corroded but not seriously 
weakened. In the MOT in November 2020, the advisory note mentions the axle was 
corroded. As these were listed as advisories and not major defects suggest such parts of the 
car may need maintenance. Based on the evidence of the MOT, the independent inspection 
and the number of miles covered by the car, I dont believe the corroded axle wouldve made 
the car of unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Summary
Taking everything into account, there is insufficient evidence that the issue with the steering 
made the car of unsatisfactory quality when supplied. In regards to the other faults, Im 
satisfied they are most likely a result of wear and tear given the cars age and mileage. 
While I understand the number of faults and the cost of repairs are significant, I cant hold 
Billing Finance responsible for issues related to wear and tear or the general maintenance of 
the car.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms P and Im sorry to hear she is 
experiencing such issues with her car especially as she relies on it to commute to work as a 
key worker. However as I believe the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, it 
wouldnt be fair to say Billing Finance should do anything further to resolve the complaint 
such as repair the car, allow her to reject it or refund the contractual payments.  Though I 
encourage Billing Finance to work with Ms P in regards to the agreement and to provide 
support given her financial circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman