DRN-2953045
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that TSB Bank plc assigned him with a non-Scottish sort code following his 
making an account application online.
What happened
Mr R applied for a TSB account online. Before doing so, Mr R contacted TSB and asked 
whether hed be able to choose which branch his account would be administered at, to which 
he was told that he would be able to make such a choice toward the end of the online 
application process. However, when Mr R completed the online application, the option to 
choose which branch administered his account wasnt presented to him. 
When Mr R received his debit card, he discovered that his account had been allocated a 
sort-code that correspondeded to a branch in England. Mr R wasnt happy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
TSB looked at Mr Rs complaint. They couldnt locate the telephone call that Mr R referred to 
so couldnt confirm that Mr R had or hadnt been told, but they noted that the sort-code that 
Mr R had been allocated was a dedicated sort code for online applications and that it didnt 
impact the functionality of Mr Rs account in any way. So, they didnt uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. 
TSB also explained that if Mr R did want a Scottish sort code then he would have to open a 
new account in person in the Scottish branch of his choosing, but that this would result in a 
further credit check being undertaken against him.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. While they accepted that Mr R most likely had 
been told that he could select his preferred branch during the application process, they didnt 
feel that his being given a different sort code had had any material impact such that any form 
or compensation was warranted. So, they didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that it must have been frustrating for Mr R to have discovered that his 
recently applied for TSB account had been allocated a non-Scottish sort code, especially 
given that hed specifically requested that his new account be administered in Scotland.
However, while it may be Mr Rs personal choice that his account should have a Scottish 
sort code, the fact that his new account doesnt have a Scottish sort code doesnt affect the 
functionality of that account in any way. As such, its difficult for me to conclude that theres 
been any form of material detriment to Mr R here. 
Mr R has stated that he wants his account to have a Scottish sort code in preparation for any 
potential political and constitutional changes that may take place. However, there is no 
guarantee that the changes that Mr R is referring to here will take place, or that any issues 
will arise as a result of his account having a non-Scottish sort code even if they do.
TSB have confirmed that if Mr R does want an account with a Scottish sort code then hes 
free to open a new account by visiting the TSB branch of his choosing in Scotland. This feels 
fair to me. And while Mr R has stated he doesnt want to incur a further credit and that he 
would like to be compensated financially for having to take the time to make a second 
application, I dont feel I can reasonably instruct TSB to comply with Mr Rs wishes in these 
regards here - given that Mr R has a fully functioning TSB bank account already and that any 
change that Mr R wishes to make is one of personal preference.
All of which means that I dont feel that TSB have acted unreasonably or unfairly here, and it 
follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing TSB to take any 
further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr R was wanting here, but I hope that he can 
understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman