DRN-1371983
 Complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Mrs E, who is represented by a third party, has complained that she was sold the PPI when 
she took out with a Dorothy Perkins store card in April 1998. The credit facility was provided 
by a high street bank, but there has been a change in the company which is now 
responsible for answering these types of complaint. The company now responsible is called 
AXA France IARD.
Ill therefore refer to AXA throughout this final decision.  
Background
The store card was taken out in a store and obtained by filling out an application leaflet. PPI 
was added on to the card and Mrs E says she had no idea shed taken it out. 
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs E disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Weve seen a number of very similar sales to this one and weve spoken at length to the 
company involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were generally used. So 
we now know consumers were asked to fill out an application which was part of a wider 
leaflet-based application. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included in what the 
applicant was given to complete. 
I was sent the credit agreement Mrs E filled out when she took out the card and PPI. I can 
see there was a section on the application leaflet about PPI. This invited her to either sign 
her name - or leave blank - an option box to have PPI cover. 
Mrs E signed at this point, so I think this suggests that she did want PPI when she applied 
for her card. Because I also think she would have had access to the terms and conditions as 
Ive described above, I think she consented to the PPI cover when she signed at this point. I 
think shed have been equally free to not have asked for the PPI on the form. 
Mrs E points out that a member of staff filled out the form for her, implying that the PPI was 
added without her knowledge. But I would still have expected her to check the credit 
agreement before signing it. AXA provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough clear 
information for Mrs E to decide for herself whether she wanted the cover. I acknowledge 
AXA could have set out the information about the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but 
overall, I do think Mrs E had access to enough information to allow her to make an informed 
decision. 
Mrs E told us she had basic statutory sickness protection already with her job, implying she 
didnt need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about 
the benefits Mrs E says she enjoyed. But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of 
use. 
Ive checked that Mrs E was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve 
paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to work or 
until all the balance was returned to zero. The policy also included life cover as well as a 
purchase cover benefit. All these benefits wouldve been in addition to any other means 
Mrs E had in place at the time, such as the support she mentioned would be available from 
family members. Its also important to keep in mind that whilst having the offer of help from 
family members is reassuring, it isnt a guarantee of support being there when its needed as 
financial circumstances can easily change for the worse. 
So although I cant say why Mrs E decided to select this cover when she applied for the 
card, I think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use to her. I think this 
could explain why she chose it on the form.
For me to uphold Mrs Es complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont 
have that evidence. Instead, what Ive seen makes me think Mrs E specifically selected the 
PPI. And I dont think theres evidence that any better  or more  information wouldve 
changed how Mrs E acted. 
Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman