DRN-2981586
The complaint
Mr R complained that UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with 
loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr R was given two loans by UK Credit as follows: 
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentAPR
1 November 
2013£5,000 18
months£373.35 47.9%
2 September 
2014£7,500 30
months£395.11 46.8%
Mr R said that the loans provided by UK Credit trapped him into a debt spiral and the 
repayments took so much of his wages that he had to borrow again to cover his next 
months expenses. To put things right he would like UK Credit to refund the interest 
and extra charges he paid, with statutory interest.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Rs complaint. He didnt think that UK Credit 
shouldve provided either of the loans to Mr R and he set out the steps he thought 
UK Credit should take to put things right. 
UK Credit disagreed with our investigator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Rs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Rs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If it did, did UK Credit then make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably some other way?
When he applied for loan 1, UK Credit asked Mr R about his income and expenditure and 
UK Credit did its own background checks. It verified Mr Rs salary and employment by 
looking at his payslip and UK Credit recorded Mr Rs income as £3,163 a month. It asked 
Mr R about his regular expenditure, including his spending on other credit commitments 
disclosed in the credit checks that UK Credit carried out. It worked out that Mr R would have 
around £1,000 in disposable income. 
UK Credit said its affordability checks were adequate and proportionate and that based on 
the information gathered at the time of the application, the loan was affordable. 
Our investigator thought that UK Credit shouldve done more in-depth checks before 
agreeing to lend  and a large part of the correspondence between our investigator and 
UK Credit has been about what a proportionate check wouldve shown. 
I think UK Credit did take reasonable and proportionate steps to build a picture of Mr Rs 
financial situation  but I dont think UK Credit made a fair lending decision when it lent to 
Mr R based on the information it had gathered.
When I look through the credit search UK Credit carried out when Mr R applied for this 
loan, I can see clear indications that Mr R was already having some serious problems managing his finances. UK Credit saw that Mr R had a balance outstanding of around 
£9,000 on a recent defaulted loan account which Mr R said he was paying £100 per 
month towards. He also had an outstanding unsecured loan with a balance of more 
than £4,000 which cost him £515 each month. And he had two credit cards  one with 
a balance owing around its £3,000 credit limit and the other approximately £100 over 
its £350 account limit. Mr R said he paid around £103 towards his credit card debt 
each month. It also looked like Mr R was making full use of his £3,000 bank overdraft. 
UK Credit asked Mr R about his financial situation and understood that he planned to 
use part of its loan to repay his larger credit card and that the remainder would go 
towards a car and paying for Christmas. 
But I dont think UK Credit thought carefully enough about what this credit history 
showed about Mr Rs overall financial situation. 
Despite the fact that Mr R had told UK Credit that his monthly outgoings were limited, 
leaving him with ample spare cash each month, I think UK Credit shouldve realised 
that it couldnt rely on this information because that wasnt borne out by what it saw on 
its credit checks. 
UK Credit saw that Mr R was already paying £718 towards his existing credit commitments  
and even using part of the loan to pay some of his credit card debt didnt look like it would 
significantly reduce his monthly credit spend. The loan monthly repayments on this loan 
would likely take his spending on credit each month up to around £1091. 
I think our investigator was right to point out that this amount was such a significant 
proportion of Mr Rs monthly income it was a clear indication that Mr R was, in reality, 
experiencing financial difficulty. And this was borne out by the other information UK Credit 
saw on its checks  having maxed-out credit cards and a defaulted loan that it was apparent 
Mr R wasnt making any real inroads into paying, plus having a fully utilised bank overdraft 
that meant his monthly take home pay would only just return the account to a credit balance, 
all pointed to the fact that this loan wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for Mr R. 
I think UK Credit shouldve realised that, based on what it saw, Mr R was likely going to be 
paying its loan out of other borrowed income.
I dont think the fact alone that this expensive loan was taken out in part to repay other 
expensive credit means it was fairly provided. 
Overall, I dont think UK Credit could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing this loan 
to Mr R wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his overall debts. 
So I dont think UK Credit shouldve provided this loan. 
UK Credit also shouldnt have provided loan 2. 
I disagree with UK Credit when it says the information gathered at the time of the application 
showed the loan was affordable.
Mr Rs circumstances were broadly unchanged  he was in the same job and his living 
arrangements were the same. But by now his credit position showed further worrying signs  
and certainly no overall change for the better despite the fact that loan 1 had been intended 
to help him improve his financial situation.Although UK Credits income and expenditure calculations suggested that the monthly 
repayments ought to be affordable, nonetheless the information it saw on its credit checks 
suggested otherwise. By the time Mr R applied for loan 2, UK Credit could see that he had 
taken out at least four further expensive unsecured loans after he took out loan 1  one had 
been repaid but the others he would still be paying added another £773 to his monthly credit 
spend. His bank overdraft was still at the same level and it didnt look like Mr R had made 
any significant or lasting impression on his previous credit card debt  and he had also taken 
out a new card in June 2014 which was over its credit limit when Mr R applied for loan 2.
I dont think that anything Mr R told UK Credit when he took out this loan was sufficient to 
explain or rebut what UK Credit saw from its own credit checks  and it shouldve realised 
that this loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr R. The fact that hed made the repayments 
on loan 1 without any apparent problem didnt mean he had been able to do so in a way that 
was sustainable. I think the credit checks showed that he had likely used money borrowed 
elsewhere to make the repayments on loan 1. So UK Credit shouldve realised it wasnt fair 
to provide this loan to Mr R as it wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for him either  
especially bearing in mind the loan amount and the loan term. 
As Mr R has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loans 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what UK Credit did wrong. So, I think UK Credit needs to put things right.
I am grateful to UK Credit for the time and trouble it has taken to provide such detailed 
responses to our investigator. I havent commented on everything UK Credit has said during 
the course of this complaint, but Ive thought carefully about everything. And Ive 
concentrated my comments on what is relevant to the outcome I think is fair and reasonable 
and dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this complaint. 
I hope that setting out my reasons will help UK Credit understand how and why Ive reached 
my decision.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr R and UK Credit have confirmed that they have nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. 
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this 
matter. 
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think UK Credit acted unfairly towards Mr R in any 
other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. And I think it is fair and reasonable 
for Mr R to repay the principal amounts that he borrowed, because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on loans that should not have been provided 
to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr R shouldnt repay more than the capital 
amount he borrowed. With this in mind, UK Credit should: 
add up the total amount of money Mr R received as a result of being given 
these loans. The payments Mr R made should be deducted from this amount
 
if this results in Mr R having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then UK Credit should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr R bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Rs credit file regarding the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to take off tax from this interest. UK Credit 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint and require UK Credit Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman