DRN-3042775
The complaint
Mr U complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) were unreasonable when rejecting a 
claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mr U has been represented by his solicitors in this complaint but for ease I will refer to Mr U 
throughout.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr U, but I agree with our investigators opinion on this complaint. 
Please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr U made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Mr U says that the purchase he made for holiday software was misrepresented to him. If a 
false statement of fact had been made and if Mr U had relied on that false statement of fact 
and would not have proceeded otherwise, I would think the deal had been misrepresented to 
him and Id suggest Vanquis should take some action.
Mr U says he was told the software would give him access to a booking system for 
discounted holidays but that those holidays were simply late bookings that would have 
been discounted anyway.
I am not persuaded Mr U has been able to provide sufficient information he was given a 
false statement of fact. The sales literature told Mr U he could book up to 12 months in 
advance, at any time of the year and at competitive prices. I dont think Ive seen sufficient 
information to suggest that wasnt the case. Theres not evidence, for instance, that the 
holidays available werent amongst the cheapest available at the time.
Mr U also suggest he was threatened that if he didnt attend a sales meeting when he was 
on holiday, a charge would be made. The business dispute that and as theres no further 
evidence to corroborate Mr Us understanding of matters I dont think it would be reasonable 
to expect Vanquis to take any action about the allegation. 
So, I dont think Vanquis have been unreasonable when not upholding Mr Us section 75 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman