DRN-2600859
The complaint
Ms S complains that Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited (Chase) 
sent her an invoice for work undertaken which she should not have to pay.
What happened
Ms S took voluntary redundancy in 2018. She was in her mid-fifties and planned to 
retire. 
Her employer wrote to her in December 2018, setting out some options in relation to her 
pension. Her employer told her that it would meet the costs of her having an initial 
financial advice consultation with either Chase or another company.
Ms S opted to meet with Chase in early December 2018. Some details were taken from her, 
including information about her redundancy payment, the potential tax implications and 
pensions options in general were discussed.
A  redundancy report was produced by Chase. Ms Ss employer paid for this. It said in 
the report that if Ms S wanted to explore the options further, she could arrange a further 
meeting.  
Ms S met with Chase again at the end of January 2019. At that meeting she signed a 
client services agreement. Chase carried out a fact find to assess Ms S circumstances, 
including her assets, investment experience, attitude to risk and objectives.
After the meeting, Chases adviser reviewed the market with a view to making 
recommendations about the potential options she had available and the providers 
offering suitable products. Following the review, the plan was to provide Ms S with a 
report setting out their recommendations.
On 10 February 2019, Ms S asked how much she would be charged to transfer her 
pension. She was told it would be 2% of the transfer value. On 11 February 2019, she 
instructed Chase not to proceed as she wanted to obtain advice elsewhere.
In April 2019, Chase sent Ms S an invoice for the eight hours work it said it had completed 
prior to 11 February 2019. The invoice was for £2,000. 
Ms S complained to Chase because, she said, in summary:
Chase didnt tell her that if she chose not to take up its advice she would still be 
charged;
She didnt receive an advice report despite being charged for the time taken to 
gather the information for it.
There were errors in the tax information provided by Chase, which caused her to 
take advice elsewhere.
She understood the advice was being paid for by her employer until she decided to
transfer.
Chase didnt agree with Ms S and considered that it was reasonable to expect her to pay 
the £2,000 she owed for work completed. Ms S referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into  Ms S complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld.
Our investigator said, in summary:
Chase took appropriate steps to make Ms S aware that the further work would be 
chargeable, even if she was to terminate its service or decide not to transfer. 
Further, she would be charged at an hourly rate. 
Chase put together an extensive report of 48 pages following the meeting at the 
end of January 2019 This set out Ms Ss assets, liabilities, objectives, attitude to 
risk and investment experience. Chase also asked her employer about her pension 
options. 
Chase set out clearly in its letter of17 July 2019 the work it had done. It had 
charged her the correct amount.
The reason Ms S had not received Chases report is because she terminated 
Chases services, so it wasnt unfair that she was charged for the work completed.
As the advice report was not produced, Ms S hadnt incurred a tax loss due to 
Chase proving her with inadequate information about the tax position. 
Ms S didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for her case to be considered by 
an ombudsman. Ms Ss complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S said that she was not told ahead of time that the work would be charegeable, and it 
was hidden in the small print of the client agreement and terms of business. Ive looked at 
this documentation Ms S was given at the time of advice, to see if Ms S was given clear, 
fair and not misleading information about Chases charges. Having done so, I think she 
was. So, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
December 2018 letter from Ms Ss employer
The letter sent to her by her employer said:
Planning for your retirement can be complicated. You should consult a Regulated 
Financial Adviser if you are unsure which option is best for you and should also consult 
Pension Wise. Chase de Vere (0845 609 2009- quote GSK W5) and Origen (0844 209 
3925  quote GSK) are familiar with the GSK pension plans and will offer an initial 
consultation free of charge.
I think its clear from this only the initial consultation was free of charge.  
Chases letter to Ms S about charges after the meeting in December 2018
Chase said this to Ms S about charges in its letter to her after the first meeting with her 
in December.The cost for the meeting which has taken place has been met by GSK and also the 
charge for preparing this document.
In the event that you do want more individual advice, the information contained in this 
report will form part of the advice which I am able to provide to you.
Ms S said she was provided with a short report summarising her redundancy options, 
but she wanted advice on her redundancy uplift as she was concerned she would 
exceed her annual allowance. Ms S said she was already an existing client of Chases 
with a small investment portfolio. She said she gave Chase authority to write to her 
pension scheme administrators, so that they could calculate her available annual 
allowances.
She said there was a mistake in the summary report, in her carry forward calculations, 
which would have led to an extra tax charge of around £1786, had she not noticed the 
error. I dont know when Ms S noticed this mistake, but she did go on to arrange another 
meeting with Chase. I cant see that Ms S pointed this out to Chase before terminating its 
services, so it could put this right, if necessary.
January 2019 meeting
Ms S met again with Chase at the end of January 2019. A client services agreement 
was signed at this meeting. This was just a one-page document, so I think it wouldve 
been possible for Ms S to read it fully, before she signed it. 
Ms S said she and her partner were introduced to a pension transfer specialist and she 
was told there would be no charge for this meeting. She says she was told there would 
be a 2% charge if she transferred.
Based on the earlier correspondence received, I think it ought to have been clear to Ms 
S that her employer would not be covering the costs of this meeting.
I cant say what was discussed at this meeting. I wasnt there. I dont consider that I 
have enough to fairly conclude that during the discussion Ms S was misled about the 
charges that applied. I note the paperwork she signed said something different.
Ms S has also said that Chase carried out work before the January 2019 meeting, 
which it later charged for, after she signed the client agreement. This involved writing 
to her pension providers and collating information for the January meeting.
This work was undertaken because Ms S wanted further advice. As, Ive said above, 
I think it was sufficiently clear that if she wanted more after the initial consultation, 
her employer wouldnt be covering the cost of that.
Had Ms S changed her mind between the December and January meetings and 
decided she no longer wanted advice. Or had she decided after seeing the costs 
involved for the first time at the January meeting, that she didnt want advice, its 
possible I may take a different view about work done to prepare for the January 
meeting. But clearly, by attending the meeting and signing the client agreement, she 
was confirming she did want advice and agreed to Chases terms of business. The 
work completed would have had to be competed after the meeting, if not before, to 
provide Ms S with the advice she wanted. So, I dont think she has lost out financially 
because of this.The information collated was relevant in terms of providing that advice. So, this 
doesnt change my view about whether Ms S is responsible for paying for the advice 
she received, having signed the client agreement.
Client Agreement
The document she signed said this above the signature area:
By signing this document, you will be confirming your acceptance of the terms of this 
document and our terms of business and authorising us to provide the services described in 
this document. You will also be accepting responsibility to pay our charge for the services 
we provide.
As our investigator noted, the service agreement doesnt specifically say that Ms S will be 
charged for work done, should she decide not to proceed. But, I think it did make it clear 
that Ms S was now personally responsible for meeting Chases charges.
The Client Agreement did refer to the charges being for advice and implementation, 
so I think this wouldve flagged up to Ms S that the charges were not just for 
implementation, if she decided not to transfer.
I think it was sufficiently clear and prominent in the one page document that charges 
were covered in the terms of business.
Terms of business
Section four of the terms of business said this about the charging structure:
Should you decide to terminate our services prior to all works having been completed, 
we will charge you a fee based on the advisers hourly rate which is commensurate with 
the amount of work completed.
I think this statement was plain and clear.
It went on to give an indication of cost of a review, based on time worked. It said:
 A review may take between 5 and 8 hours for your adviser to complete (depending on the 
complexity of your situation) and will accordingly cost between £1,250 and £2,000, based 
on an hourly rate for advice of £250.
I think this was also made clear. Ms S review was within the higher end of this range, 8 
hours work being completed. So, I think the information provided was fair about the likely 
costs involved.
Further it said this about the hourly rate:
Service Initial charge
Chargeable element / Hourly rate
Specialist Financial advice / £400
Financial Advice / £250Financial analysis and personal investment 
recommendations
Administration / £80
Chase explained to Ms S in July 2019 what the work entailed. It said this:Collating information from the financial planning meeting, which included updating 
your personal details, risk profile, pensions, assets, mortgage information investments 
and savings, and estate planning  (1 hour)
Requesting information from the pension scheme providers including sending signed 
letters of authority to each pension company, chasing those requests and monitoring 
progress (1 hour)
Updating fact find to reflect your financial position including arranging in a format 
which would enable us to provide suitable advice (2 hours)
Formulating advice and a strategy for retirement which included a review of your existing 
pension plans, asset allocation based on the agreed risk profile, consideration of 
drawdown strategy and other options for income now and in the future, and finally sending 
instructions to commence writing of the advice report (4 hours)
Ms S thought some of this work administrative in nature. I think the work undertaken could 
be classed as advisory and not administrative. It involved collecting and collating relevant 
information about Ms Ss circumstances, to put together a report on her pension options 
and make recommendations going forward. I dont think this can be fairly classified as 
administrative work given the specialist knowledge required to undertake the overall task.
Tax information
Chase told Ms S in correspondence that it was not a tax expert and she should double 
check its figures with an accountant. Ms S considers that Chase ought to have provided 
more reliable advice about the tax position and thats what led to her seeking alternative 
advice.
Whilst Chase had provided a redundancy report, it had not provided its pension report 
before Ms S terminated its services. So, I cant fairly conclude that the advice it provided 
was unreliable and that it was reasonable for Chase to forego its fees, based on its 
unreliable advice.
Her employer paid for the earlier advice, so she has not suffered any loss there. She didnt 
accept the advice, so even if the advice was wrong, she suffered no financial loss arising 
from that.
Ms S said she lost confidence in the adviser and that is what caused her to terminate its 
services. But, I cant see that Ms S told Chase that at the time. Chase also did qualify the 
earlier advice, by saying that it was not a tax expert. That;s not unusual in circumstances 
like this. So, this doesnt change my view about whether Ms S was responsible for paying 
for Chases advice.
Advice report
The report was not produced because Ms S terminated the services of Chase before the 
report was sent to her. So, I cant fairly say that she shouldnt have to pay for the work 
completed, simply because she didnt actually get the report. 
Overall, therefore, I dont think that Chase acted unfairly or unreasonably when it issued 
Ms S with an invoice for the 8 hours advisory work it completed. I therefore cant fairly 
require Chase to forego these charges, as Ms S would like.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman