DRN-3136991
The complaint
 Mr P complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his Pockit account and havent 
released money held in the account back to him. 
The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card administered by Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited.
What happened
Mr P had an account which had a Pockit account.
  
In March 2020, Pockit blocked Mr Ps account while it carried out a review. As part of the 
review Pockit asked Mr P to provide proof of his identification, address and source of funds 
in particular Pockit wanted to know more information about a £400 payment that had 
credited his account on 3 March 2020 which Mr P had withdrawn at an ATM. At the time of 
the review Mr Ps balance was around £150
Mr P explained that he had lost his identification documents so he couldnt provide anything 
to Pockit.  He told Pockit that the money in his account was from a backdated DWP payment 
award of around £8,000 that hed received in early February 2020. He said that due to limits 
on his Pockit account, hed arranged for the DWP payment to be paid into his cousins, 
account, and shed then transferred several smaller sums into his Pockit account. Mr P sent 
Pockit a copy of the letter hed received from DWP setting out the award and details of his 
ongoing benefit payments.
Over the following months, Mr P sent emails to Pockit to try and get access to the money in 
his account. In response, Pockit asked Mr P to provide proof of his identity and address. 
Mr P told Pockit that hed already provided the information it had requested to prove his 
address (his DWP letter) and didnt have enough money to renew his identity documents, so 
couldnt comply with Pockits request. But he sent in an NHS letter which also showed his 
address. Pockit maintained that Mr P needed to provide proof of his identity.
In September 2021, Pockit wrote to Mr P and told him it was closing his account and 
returning his account balance back to the original source. 
Mr P complained to our service. He said being without his money had made it difficult to 
provide for his family. And hed been trying to find out what was happening with his account 
for more than a year. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint and asked him 
for more information about the payments made into his account. He concluded that  Pockit 
were entitled to block and review Mr Ps account. And ask him for information. But he said 
the review had taken too long. He said Pockit should return Mr Ps balance to him along with 
interest. And pay him £50 compensation for the trouble and upset hed been caused due to 
unnecessary delays. 
Mr P agreed. Pockit said it hadnt done anything wrong when it had returned the money to 
source. But it agreed to pay Mr P £50 compensation along with interest.  
 
Having looked at all the evidence I came to a different conclusion to the investigator. In 
October 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Pockit has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain 
actions in order to meet these obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of new and existing relationships and verify a customers identify. That sometimes 
means they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry 
out their review. And ask a customer for information about payments made into an account 
and to provide identification documents.
 
Having looked at the information Pockit relied upon, Im satisfied that they were complying 
with their legal and regulatory obligations when they blocked Mr Ps account and asked him 
for information. The terms and conditions of Mr Ps account also permit Pockit to block an 
account and Im satisfied Pockit acted in line with them. So, I cant say Pockit did anything 
wrong when it decided to review Mr Ps account. 
I know Mr P wasnt able to provide his identification documents as theyd been lost. But I 
note he was able to provide evidence of his address, which included a letter from the DWP. I 
dont think Pockit asking Mr P to provide proof of his identity is unreasonable request. And 
its unfortunate that Mr P didnt have it to provide  but thats not Pockits fault. Pockit 
needed to verify Mr Ps identity in order to protect his account and comply with  their 
obligations. Mr P couldnt provide it. So Pockit couldnt unblock his account. 
Pockit sent the remaining balance of Mr Ps account back to source. This ensures the funds 
are sent back to the correct person. Especially, as in this case Pockit werent able to verify 
Mr Ps identity. So, it wouldnt be appropriate to pay the money to him directly. I know Mr P 
has provided the investigator with evidence about the source of funds. But Im not satisfied 
that this shows Mr P is entitled to the money in his account  I say this because the screen 
shots of the account hes given us dont marry up to the transactions on his Pockit account. 
However, while Pockit are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Pockit initially blocked Mr Ps account in March 
2020.  I can see that Pockit asked Mr P to provide it with information in mid-April 2020 and 
July 2020. However, his account remained blocked with no further contact until late 2020. 
Pockit then decided to close Mr Ps account in September 2021 and send the funds back to 
source. I havent seen any evidence to satisfy me that Pokcits actions are reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. While I recognise that Pockit are entitled to carry out a review, I 
dont consider the account being blocked for 18 months with little contact acceptable. 
Despite being asked by the investigator, Pockit hasnt offered any explanation for why its 
review of Mr Ps account took so long to complete. I note from the information Pockit has 
provided that Mr P appears to have complied with its requests for information relatively 
promptly. And he sent Pockit information between March and July 2020. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen this doesnt appear to be an over complicated matter. So, in the absence 
of any explanation from Pockit, Im not satisfied Pockit completed its review in a timely 
manner and treated Mr P fairly. Because of this, I think Pockit should pay compensation to 
recognise the trouble and upset caused to Mr P.
Im aware that Pockit have returned Mr Ps balance to source. I agree that this was the right 
action in the circumstances. However, this wasnt done until recently. I can see that Mr P has 
had to chase Pockit to try and find out what was happening with his account  hes made 
several phone calls and sent numerous emails to try and move things forward. I think having 
to wait 18 months to be provided with an answer has caused extra distress. So, I consider 
£75 compensation to be fair in the circumstances. Mr P accepted the provisional decision and Pockit didnt have anything further to add.  Now 
both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I remain of the view to partly uphold the complaint for the same reasons I 
gave in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and form part of this decision. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive expIained, I partly uphold Mr Ps complaint. To put things right 
Wirecard Card Solutions Limited should:
Pay Mr P £75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken to 
complete its review 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman