DRN-1654224
 
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs W complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has handled 
their subsidence claim badly and caused unnecessary delays to repairs. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have a home insurance policy that is underwritten by RSA. In 2016 
they raised a claim for subsidence after they discovered cracks in the walls of their property. 
RSA sent its agent to attend the property to complete a report. However shortly after, 
RSA informed Mr and Mrs W that it would be avoiding their policy  cancelling it as if it 
never existed. It said this was because Mr and Mrs W had made a previous claim for 
subsidence that hadnt been declared when they took out the insurance.
Mr and Mrs W complained about RSAs decision. The complaint came to this service and 
an ombudsman decided that RSA avoiding the policy wasnt fair and directed it to reinstate 
the policy. The policy was reinstated in July 2017.
At this point RSA sent its agent to the property to review the damage again. They 
suggested the subsidence had been caused by trees growing close to the property. Action 
was taken by Mr and Mrs W and their neighbours to remove or fell the trees as directed by 
RSA. Once this was complete further monitoring was required to ensure the building was 
now stable. This began in November 2017 and ran for about 6 months.
In July 2018 RSA said that monitoring was complete and a meeting would need to 
be arranged between Mr and Mrs W, its loss adjustor and its contractor to put together a 
quote for repairs. There were some delays to this meeting due to a mix up with dates and 
both agents had not attended until October 2018.
In their report RSAs contractors recommended underpinning of the property would 
be required. However RSAs loss adjuster didnt agree with this as they thought trees near 
the property could still be affecting it. On the loss adjusters recommendation, the property 
was monitored fora few more months. After this, and some consideration of other trees in the 
area, RSA concluded that the cracks were showing little sign of movement so it could 
proceed to repair stage. However it needed to send out new contractors to give a quote for 
work without underpinning, as it didnt feel this was necessary.
The second contractor attended in May 2019 and provided a schedule of works the 
following month. However in June 2019 Mr and Mrs W contacted RSA to say that water was 
getting into their property through the kitchen roof that had been damaged due to a floor 
dropping. They said they had mentioned the floor in the kitchen throughout the claim and it 
had never been properly addressed by RSA. They said there was damage to furniture and 
electrics and they didnt feel safe. RSA sent its contractors to look at the roof however an 
effective temporary repair was not put in place until August 2019.Mr and Mrs W also raised concerns about problems with their septic tank. They said that 
due to the ground dropping, the tank had been displaced and this meant it wasnt 
draining properly. They were having to pay to have it drained more regularly. RSA agreed 
to reimburse Mr and Mrs W for the costs of additional drainage.
Mr and Mrs W complained throughout the claim about slow progress and a lack of updates. 
They were also unhappy that three years after the original claim, repairs had not started on 
their property and they felt RSA had not taken their concerns about the kitchen floor 
dropping seriously. RSA apologised for some of the delays and, on the advice of 
this service, offered £50 compensation for one of the cancelled meetings. Mr and Mrs W 
werent happy with RSAs response and brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended Mr and Mrs Ws complaint 
was upheld. He said RSA should pay £2,500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused them.
RSA thought the compensation was too high. Mr and Mrs W felt the compensation was 
not enough to make up for the distress and inconvenience they had been caused. Both RSA 
and Mr and Mrs W asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Since the complaint has come to me, RSA has considered a further complaint from Mr and 
Mrs W about the damage caused by the rain water leaking through the roof of their kitchen.
RSA issued its final response on 18 December and offered to pay for damaged items and 
a total of £250 in compensation. RSA has agreed that I can consider everything that 
has happened up until this final response as part of my assessment.
 My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, which said:
After reviewing the details of the claim, I would have expected it to have 
progressed significantly further by this point. It has now been two and a half years since 
the reinstatement of the policy. And at the point of the December final response letter, 
full repairs had still not started.
I appreciate subsidence claims can be lengthy and subject to unforeseen delays. So, 
in order to come to a decision, I have considered whether the delays could have been 
avoided. I have also considered RSAs actions throughout the claim and the impact these 
things have had on Mr and Mrs W.
From looking at the timeline of the claim, I can see that to begin with it was progressed at 
a reasonable pace. RSA sent out its contractor to identify possible causes and 
then monitoring began. This is the expected course of action for a subsidence claim and 
monitoring will usually be required for six months. It would usually be at this stage that 
we would expect repairs to begin.
RSA did arrange for contractors to visit the property and put together a scope of works 
once monitoring was complete. However after this point there were further delays due to 
a disagreement about the required action. From looking at the information provided, I 
think these delays could have been alleviated or even avoided altogether.
After the scope of works was received by RSA from its agent, it disagreed that 
underpinning would be required and instead said the property should be monitored further. It 
said the reason for this was that trees further away from the property could have been affecting the it as well as those that had already been felled or removed. In the original 
report, carried out in 2017, these trees were noted as a possible future risk but that no 
action was required. After further monitoring it was decided that these trees were not a risk. 
RSA wanted a scope of works put together by a different contractor as it said the first one 
specialised in underpinning which is why they had recommended this. In May 2019 a second 
contractor attended the property.
During the seven month period between October 2018, when the first contractor visited 
and May 2019 when the second visited, no progress was made. It seems the main reason 
further monitoring was suggested was because RSA disagreed with the recommendation 
that the property was underpinned. It said that the first contractor suggested this as this was 
their expertise. However, the first contractor was selected by RSA. So this could have 
been something it should have considered when choosing a contractor. I understand that 
RSA struggled to find a contractor that could take on the work. However it still should have 
been aware of the contractor it did select and their expertise. Further, if it wanted a 
second opinion, this should have been sought at the time. I dont agree there was a need for 
further monitoring of the property at this stage. RSA already had a report about the trees 
from an arborist and monitoring that showed the property had stabilised. I therefore think this 
seven month delay could have been avoided.
Once the second scope of works was complete, it then took RSA a long time to provide 
this to Mr and Mrs W or to make any further progress with the claim. In June 2019 Mr W 
reported a leak in the roof of the kitchen. By this point the claim had been open for two years 
and work hadnt started to repair the property. The leak caused Mr and Mrs W significant 
distress as the water was leaking onto electrical items and they had concerns about their 
safety. RSA arranged for temporary repairs to the roof but due to misunderstandings with its 
agents this didnt happen until August 2019. I can see that Mr and Mrs W had raised 
concerns about the sinking floor in the kitchen throughout the claim. Yet these were never 
properly addressed by RSA. Had there not been delays in repairs, the sinking floor would 
have been addressed earlier and Mr and Mrs W may not have experienced the problem with 
the roof at all. I therefore think that not only did RSA fail to deal with an emergency repair 
quickly, it also was the cause of the need for the repair in the first place.
At this time Mr and Mrs R reported the problem with their septic tank. RSA agreed to pay for 
the extra drainage required if receipts were provided. But this didnt solve the problem, it 
only helped them deal with it. Again, this wouldnt have been necessary if repair work had 
started on the property in good time.
As well as the specific delays I have already mentioned I can also see there were 
numerous times RSA and its agents caused delays to agreed meetings, providing 
documentation and responding to Mr and Mrs Ws concerns. I understand subsidence claims 
are complex and will always involve a number of agents which inevitably slows down the 
exchange of information. However the number of delays experienced in this claim is far 
beyond what I would expect for a claim such as this. And I think this could have been 
avoided by better management of the claim by RSA.
I have considered the impact the delays have had on Mr and Mrs W. As Ive said, I feel 
the repair work on the property could have reasonably started in around October 2018 or 
shortly after. As repair work will still need to be completed, I expect this will cause an overall 
delay of around 18 months. This is a significant amount of time for Mr and Mrs W to be living 
in worsening conditions without an idea of when work will start to fix it. Further, had the 
work started in 2018, the kitchen would not have got into the condition it did. Having water 
leaking into a property and onto their possessions would have caused Mr and Mrs W 
significant distress. It also creates a difficult environment to live in, as it is likely that the 
kitchen would have become increasingly difficult to use.Although I can see alternative accommodation was discussed at points in the claim, and 
I can see this is provided under the policy, this was only ever discussed for when 
repairs started. No consideration was given to whether this would be appropriate straight 
away, given the worsening condition of the kitchen and the septic tank. As repairs were 
delayed, so was the offer of alternative accommodation. This left Mr and Mrs W in worsening 
conditions with no available alternatives other than to continue to wait for repairs to start on 
an unspecified date.
I therefore agree that the claim has been delayed unnecessarily by RSA. I think the 
repairs should have started significantly earlier. And the delay has caused Mr and Mrs W 
significant distress and inconvenience. For these reasons I agree with our 
investigators recommendation of £2,500 compensation to make up for this.
I understand that the priority for Mr and Mrs W is for repair work to be completed on 
their property. At the point of issuing my decision, work has only just begun. I therefore have 
not addressed any issues that may arise from this work nor will I get involved in the direction 
of the completion of this work. Should Mr and Mrs W have further cause for complaint 
in relation to the repair work then this may form a separate complaint in future.
Response to my provisional decision
RSA confirmed it had received my provisional decision, but didnt add any further comments.
Mr and Mrs W responded to say that they didnt accept the decision. They said they didnt 
feel £2,500 was enough to make up for the distress and inconvenience that RSA had caused 
them. They raised a number of points, the main ones were as follows:
Work on the repairs hadnt started on the property when the decision was issued, so 
they felt RSA had mislead the service.
RSA were no longer in agreement that the septic tank would be covered under the 
policy and they felt this contradicted what Id said in the provisional decision.
They felt RSA had handled the management of their complaints badly and this 
should have been considered in my provisional decision.
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont see any reason to 
depart from my provisional decision, Ill explain why.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ws concerns that RSA had provided misleading information, which 
indicated repair work had started on the property when it hadnt. In my provisional decision I 
was referring to the temporary repairs that Mr and Mrs W had confirmed had commenced, 
so I apologise if this caused confusion. I have seen no reason to doubt the information 
provided by either Mr and Mrs W or RSA.
Mr and Mrs W say that since I issued my provisional decision, RSA has said replacing their 
septic tank will not be covered under the policy. They feel this contradicts my provisional 
decision. I have spoken to RSA and it has confirmed that a claim for the septic tank should 
be raised under the accidental damage section of the policy rather than as part of the 
subsidence claim. I understand that Mr and Mrs W have raised an additional complaint 
specifically about the claim for the septic tank so I wont be considering this issue any further 
in  this complaint. Mr and Mrs W have said they are unhappy with how RSA has handled their complaints. This 
includes, closing complaints too early and taking a long time to provide final responses. As 
part of my assessment, I have considered the service provided by RSA throughout. This 
included all correspondence and time spent by Mr and Mrs W chasing RSAs response. So 
this has already been accounted for in the compensation award.
Having looked again at all the evidence, I see no reason to depart from my original 
assessment. I therefore require RSA to pay £2,500 to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience caused when handling Mr and Mrs Ws claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr and 
Mrs W a total of £2,500 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused.
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr and Mrs W have accepted my 
final decision. If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 
8% a year simple
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman