DRN-3156633
The complaint
Mr U complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his Pockit account and havent 
released money held in the account back to him. 
At the time Mr Us Pockit account was a pre-paid payment card administered by Wirecard.
What happened
 Around late February 2019, Pockit blocked Mr Us account whilst they carried out a review. 
As part of its review Pockit asked Mr U to provide some information about him and how he 
was using his account. It asked Mr U for proof of his identification and address. And to 
explain how he funded his account. 
In March 2019, Mr U sent Pockit copies of his driving licence, and proof of his address. But 
Pockit didnt remove the blocks. Pockit told Mr U that it wouldnt be able to provide him with 
a timeframe for when it would be able to complete its review. And that it was entitled to carry 
out a review under the terms and conditions of the account. Meanwhile Mr U was left without 
access to his account. 
Mr U didnt contact Pockit again until December 2019 when he called to try and find out what 
was happening to his account. Pockit told him it had sent an email to the email address 
associated with his account. However, Mr U said that he no longer had access to the email 
account, as it was an old one. So, hadnt received the email. 
In July 2020, Mr U says that he mistakenly put cash into his blocked Pockit account to pay 
for his car insurance, which was around £150. And that he thought his balance was just 
under £200. Following this Mr U made several calls to Pockit and sent a number of emails to 
try and gain access to the money in his account. 
On 23 July 2020, Mr U spoke to Pockit. He told the advisor hed previously sent his 
identification documents to Pockit, but he wasnt able to provide any paperwork regarding 
the source of funds in his account. Mr U told Pockit that he wanted to check what email 
address was registered with them as he hadnt heard from Pockit. He said he was 
vulnerable, and his mental health was suffering. But the advisor said he couldnt provide 
Mr U with any information as he didnt have access to his account. And that he would 
contact the review team to let them know about Mr Us health. 
Following this call, Pockit told Mr U that he needed to provide details of his old email address 
and his new email address. It also asked Mr U to provide proof of his identification and 
address again. Mr U sent Pockit the information it requested on 4 and 11 August 2020. Mr U 
explained that he had a new email address and mobile phone number. And asked Pockit to 
update his account. But Pockit said he needed to provide the email address which was 
registered to his account before it could make any changes to Mr Us account.
Over the following weeks, Mr U made several phone calls to Pockit and explained that he 
didnt know his old email address and that he no longer had access to it. But Pockit 
continued to try and communicate with Mr U via his old email address. And Mr Us account 
remained blocked. However, Pockit did let Mr U know it had updated his mobile number on 
his account.
On 21 June 2021, Pockit decided to close Mr Us account and emailed him via his old email 
address to let him know. It also asked Mr U to provide a copy of a bank statement in his 
name so that it could transfer his balance to him. When it didnt hear from Mr U, Pockit sent 
further emails to Mr Us via his old email address on 29 June 2021, 13 August 2020 and 15 
October 2020. In each email Pockit asked Mr U to provide a bank statement so that it could 
return his balance. But Mr U didnt receive the emails. 
Mr U brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into things. 
She said that Pockit were entitled to review and block Mr Us account. And ask him for 
information. But despite Mr U not being in contact very much initially, she didnt think Pockit 
had completed its review in a timely manner. And shouldnt have continued to try and 
communicate with Mr U via an unused email address  especially due to Mr U repeatedly 
telling Pockit he no longer had access to the account and that hed complied with Pockits 
information requests. 
The investigator thought Pockit could have returned Mr Us money and completed its review 
sooner. She also thought Mr C was provided poor customer service when hed called Pockit 
in July 2020. So, she said Pockit should release Mr Us balance, along with 8% interest and 
pay Mr U £125 compensation for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
Mr U disagreed. He said he wasnt able to pay his car insurance and had to borrow money 
from friends. And his mental health had been impacted due to his account being blocked for 
so long. He said the amount of compensation doesnt adequately reflect the amount of 
trouble and upset hes been caused. Pockit also disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
review things. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Pockit has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts 
to customers. And it must take certain actions in order to meet these obligations. Theyre 
also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That 
sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while 
they carry out a review.
Having looked at the information Pockit relied upon, including how Mr U was operating his 
account, Im satisfied that they were complying with these obligations when they blocked 
Mr Us account and asked him for information. The terms and conditions of Mr Us account 
also permit Pockit to block an account and Im satisfied Pockit acted in line with them. So, I 
cant say Pockit did anything wrong when it decided to review Mr Us account. 
However, while Pockit are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Pockit initially blocked Mr Us account in February 
2019.  Mr U provided them with information on two occasions regarding his address and 
identification. And he told Pockit hed provided all he could regarding the funds in his 
account. But it wasnt until June 2021 that Pockit told Mr U it was happy to release his 
balance back to him  which is more than two years after it had blocked Mr Us account. Pockit hasnt offered much in the way of any explanation for why its review of Mr Us account 
has taken as long as it has. And it hasnt provided any evidence to satisfy me that its actions 
are reasonable in the circumstances. Ive looked at the timeline that has been provided by 
Pockit about what it was doing. And I cant see that Pockit did anything to move things 
forward after 22 May 2019 until June 2021 when it decided to close Mr Us account and 
return his balance. So, whilst I accept that Pockit are entitled to review Mr Us account. And 
that Mr U didnt contact Pockit initially for several months after his account was blocked. I 
dont consider Mr Us account being blocked for nearly two years to be reasonable. 
Im satisfied that Mr U answered Pockits questions regarding his identity and his address. 
He sent Pockit copies of documents in March 2019 and again in August 2020. He also told 
Pockit he didnt have any information to provide regarding the source of the funds in his 
account. If Pockit needed any further information Id expect them to be more proactive and 
contact Mr U with the details of the information still outstanding. I note that Pockit had Mr Us 
new mobile number so it could have rung him. But based on the information Ive seen, it 
hasnt asked Mr U for anything further or told Mr U what its doing with the money in his 
account for quite some time. So, I can understand why Mr U is upset.
On 21 June 2021, Pockit told Mr U it was closing his account and releasing his balance back 
to him. I dont think Pockit would take this action if it didnt believe Mr U was entitled to the 
funds. And hadnt completed its review. But I cant see that Pockit asked Mr U to provide 
more information after August 2020. So, its not clear why Pockit took as long as it did to 
decide to return Mr Us funds.  
I can see that Mr U sent several emails to Pockit over a number of months chasing the 
release of his money. He made Pockit aware that he was struggling financially, and his 
mental health was suffering. And its clear from his emails that Mr U was upset. But I havent 
seen anything to suggest Pockit reached out to him or acknowledged he maybe in a 
vulnerable position. I can also see that Mr U repeatedly told Pockit that he wasnt using his 
old email address, but despite this, Pockit continued to send him emails to the address. So, 
Mr U wasnt aware he could get access to his money. And overall, Im not satisfied that 
Pockit has treated Mr U fairly and reasonably. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I think Pockit should give Mr U access to the money 
paid into his account and pay 8% simple interest on this amount. Pockit should pay the 
interest from the date they reasonably released the money, which I find to be the date Mr U 
supplied the information to them up to the date they refund it to him. 
Ive also thought about the trouble and upset this situation caused Mr U. And whilst I 
appreciate Mr U wont agree, I consider £125 compensation fairly recognises the trouble and 
upset caused to him. 
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Us complaint. To put things right Wirecard Card 
Solutions Limited should:
Pay Mr U £125 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken to 
complete its review
Refund Mr Us balance along with 8% interest simple per year from 14 August 2020 
until the date of refund
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Ombudsman