DRN-2915002
The complaint
Miss C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc loaded a marker against her on the National 
Fraud Database. And shed like this removed. 
What happened
Miss C opened a current account with HSBC on the 6 September 2019. And on the 
18 September 2019 a savings account was opened in Miss Cs name via internet banking. 
On the 23 September 2019 HSBC were advised by another of their customers that 
fraudulent funds totalling £2,400 had been transferred into Miss Cs accounts. 
On the 20 September 2019 a transfer of £1,500 was received into Miss Cs savings account. 
Within a minute of the transfer being received the funds were moved out to Miss Cs current 
account. On the same day Miss C also received £900 into her current account. Both 
transfers of £1,500 and £900 were reported as fraudulent. 
On the 20 September 2019 a cash withdrawal of £100 was carried out, and three point of 
sale transactions  using chip and PIN  were completed on the 24 September 2019 
spending the remainder of the fraudulent funds. 
On the 24 September 2019 HSBC sent a letter to Miss C to advise her of the suspicious 
activity on her account, and to ask her to contact the bank to discuss the activity. However, 
Miss C didnt make any contact. And on the 25 November 2019 HSBC decided to close 
Miss Cs accounts. They also made the decision to load a negative marker against Miss C 
on the National Fraud Database. 
Miss C complained and HSBC reviewed their decision but thought they had sufficient 
evidence to load a negative marker against Miss C on the National Fraud Database. 
Miss C wasnt happy with HSBCs decision so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. They asked 
Miss C whether she was aware of the transactions entering her accounts and if so what they 
were for  Miss C explained that she had no knowledge of the strange account activity, and 
she hadnt been aware but at the time shed lost her debit card. Miss C also explained shed 
told one of her friends her PIN number and it was saved in the notes section of her phone. 
After reviewing the case our investigator thought HSBC had acted fairly. In summary they 
thought it more likely than not that Miss C had authorised the transactions and therefore the 
bank acted fairly in loading the fraud marker. 
Miss C didnt accept our investigators opinion  in response she reiterated that shed only 
opened the first account and had no knowledge of the two savings account opened after 
this. And its very difficult for her to prove she didnt have any knowledge of the spending of 
the money. 
Our investigator contacted HSBC for more information regarding the two additional accounts 
opened  and on reviewing the evidence they were satisfied it was unlikely a fraudster would 
have used Miss Cs genuine details to apply for the accounts. And they remained of the 
opinion that HSBC had acted fairly.
Miss C didnt agree. Miss C explained shes been the victim of identity fraud and provided 
evidence of a number of applications made to other financial institutions between April and 
September 2019 which Miss C advises were made without her consent. 
As Miss C didnt accept our investigators conclusion its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC have filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the accounts to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, 
HSBC arent required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss C is guilty of a fraud of 
financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. 
The relevant guidance says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a HSBC must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Miss Cs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, HSBC will need to have strong evidence to show that Miss C was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payments and knew they were, or might be, illegitimate 
payments. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
I understand this will disappoint Miss C however having considered the standard of proof 
required I think that HSBC have sufficient evidence to load a fraud marker on her record. I 
say this because:
Miss C advises that she had no knowledge of the fraudulent funds entering her 
account  however, for a fraudster to gain access to Miss Cs account and use the 
funds theyd have needed to obtain a significant amount of Miss Cs security 
information. On £1,500 being received into Miss Cs savings account the funds were 
quickly transferred into Miss Cs current account. For this to be possible a fraudster 
needed to have access to Miss Cs internet banking details  however theres no 
explanation for how this is possible. Miss Cs explained that she didnt write down her 
internet banking details or share them with anyone. 
After the fraudulent funds were deposited into Miss Cs accounts they were all spent via cash withdrawals and point of sale transactions. All of these transactions require 
a fraudster to have access to Miss Cs card and PIN. Miss C explained that she wrote 
her PIN down in her phone and also shared it with one of her friends. Considering 
Miss C didnt lose her phone, it seems unlikely a fraudster would have gained her 
PIN number through this means. 
Miss C advised our investigator that she noticed shed lost her debit card in 2020  
around four months after the disputed transactions. Miss C explained that shed 
never used her debit card before, and pays via other means, however I still it find it 
surprising that she didnt notice her card lost until a long time after the fraud.  
Miss Cs explained that she only applied for one of the three accounts that were 
opened with HSBC. And this shows she was a victim of impersonation fraud. 
However, Ive seen a copy of the application details provided for one of the two 
fraudulent accounts and the personal details provided  including the mobile phone 
number and address  match Miss Cs. I find it unlikely a fraudster would use 
Miss Cs accurate personal details to open accounts in her name. Ive also seen 
evidence from HSBC that the application was applied for via Miss Cs online banking  
- and therefore to make the application a fraudster would have needed access to 
Miss Cs online banking details. 
Miss Cs current account was only opened two weeks prior to the fraudulent funds 
entering her account. And in that time, apart from a £1 transaction on the day of the 
fraud, no other funds were transferred into the account. This account activity is 
something Id expect to see in accounts opened solely to move on fraudulent funds. 
In response to our investigators second view Miss C advised that shes been the victim of 
identity theft and a number of applications were made to financial institutions without her 
consent. It isnt my role here to determine if these applications were made with Miss Cs 
consent or not  instead Im looking at HSBCs actions. And based on the evidence Ive seen 
I think its more likely than not that Miss C applied for all of the accounts opened with HSBC 
in 2019 and 2020. And for the reasons Ive outlined above Im satisfied that Miss C was likely 
complicit in the fraud. It follows I think that HSBC have sufficient evidence to load a marker 
on the National Fraud Database. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman