DRN-3831937
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc gave them incorrect information about the 
overpayments needed to repay their mortgage by the maturity date. Theyd like it to write off 
the balance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out an interest only mortgage with Halifax in 2007. Mr S says he called 
Halifax in late 2014 and it told him hed need to make monthly overpayments of about £740 
to repay the mortgage by the end of the term. However, in early 2022 he received a letter 
from Halifax saying there would be a remaining balance of about £17,500 when the 
mortgage term expired. 
Our investigator said Halifax had no record of a call in late 2014. She didnt think it was likely 
that Halifax had given Mr S incorrect information at that time. Our investigator said Halifax 
had sent letters to Mr and Mrs S when their interest rate increased saying they needed to 
check any overpayment arrangement still met their needs.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. Mr S said he was told and believed the overpayments they were 
making would repay the mortgage. He said theyd received letters saying their interest rate 
was changing, but they werent told they needed to change their payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says he spoke to Halifax in late 2014 and it confirmed the amount of the monthly 
overpayment needed to repay the mortgage by the end of the term. Mr and Mrs S started 
making monthly overpayments of about £740 in December 2014. 
Halifax has told us that it checked its records and has no record of this call. Even if I accept 
that the call took place, I cant fairly find that Halifax misled Mr S that monthly overpayments 
of £740 would repay the mortgage by the maturity date without some record of the 
discussion (such as a call recording or notes made at that time) which supports this. 
I must also take into account that when Mr and Mrs S took out an interest only mortgage it 
became their responsibility to check their repayment arrangement was on track. And Halifax 
sent Mr and Mrs S information that should reasonably have alerted them to the need to 
check the payments were sufficient. 
Halifax sent annual mortgage statements to Mr and Mrs S. The annual statements said it 
was Mr and Mrs Ss responsibility to check their repayment plan was on track. The 
statements set out the balance and the remaining term. 
The annual statement sent to Mr and Mrs S in May 2015 provided the balance (£78,000) and 
the remaining term (seven years and one month). Monthly payments of £740 for just over 
seven years (85 payments) would total about £63,000. This wouldnt be enough to repay the 
outstanding balance. 
Similarly, the annual statement sent to Mr and Mrs S in May 2019 said the balance of their 
account was about £43,000 and the remaining term was three years and one month. 37 
monthly payments of £740 would total about £27,000. This wouldnt be enough to repay the 
outstanding balance. 
Halifax says letters informing Mr and Mrs S of interest rate changes included paragraphs 
reminding customers making overpayments to check the arrangement still met their needs, 
and that they could use the overpayment calculator online. 
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage was interest only. So their contractual monthly payments only 
covered the interest due. Mr and Mrs S used to pay their contractual monthly payment by 
direct debit. Provided the direct debit was adjusted when interest rates changed, the monthly 
overpayment of £740 would be in addition to the monthly interest payment. 
However, Mr and Mrs S took a payment deferral during the Covid-19 pandemic and their 
direct debit wasnt reinstated. So part of their monthly payment of £740 since then would 
have been applied to pay interest rather than reduce the balance.
Mr S says Halifax didnt tell them the payments needed to increase. I dont think thats fair. 
Halifax provided copies of letters sent to Mr and Mrs S which asked them to review their 
repayments plans. For instance, it wrote to them in June 2019 setting out the balance 
(£42,000) and the remaining term (three years). At that point, Mr and Mrs S would have 
needed to make overpayments of about £1,100 to repay the balance. These letters also say 
that Mr and Mrs S had told Halifax they intended to repay the mortgage using a stocks and 
shares ISA. I dont think Halifax could reasonably have known Mr and Mrs S expected their 
overpayments to repay the mortgage balance within the remaining term. 
Halifax offered Mr and Mrs S a five-year extension on a capital repayment basis in 2022. I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs S were disappointed that their mortgage wasnt repaid in 2022 as 
theyd hoped. But I dont think this was due to an error by Halifax. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require Halifax to write off all or part of the balance. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman