DRN-4073912
The complaint
Mr D says the advice given and the arrangements made by Pensionhelp Limited, an 
appointed representative (AR) of Pareto Financial Planning Limited (Pareto), to transfer from 
his defined benefit (DB) pension scheme and to take tax-free cash and invest the residual 
funds in a personal pension with Aegon according to his assessed attitude to risk, was 
unsuitable.
Mr D is represented by Money Redress Limited (MRL).
What happened
Mr D told this Service that hed been aware of the possibility of accessing his DB pension 
from when he was 55. His Scheme Retirement Date (SRD) was 65. Hed been frustrated 
with the Trustees as they hadnt allowed him to take early retirement because his fund 
wasnt sufficient to cover the guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) they were obliged to 
meet.
Mr D was introduced to Pensionhelp Limited in September 2016 for advice about his pension 
arrangements. It was acting as an AR of Pareto; the latter is the principal firm and 
responsible for the formers acts and omissions. As such, to keep things simple, Ill just refer 
to Pareto throughout the rest of my decision.
Pareto gathered information from Mr D about his circumstances, objectives and attitude to 
risk.
At the time of Paretos advice Mr D was 59. He was married with no financial dependents. 
He was employed as a forklift truck driver earning around £17,000. Mrs D was also in work 
with an annual income of £11,000.
Mr and Mrs D owned their own home on which they had a small outstanding mortgage of 
around £4,000. They also had outstanding loans totalling about £30,000, and credit card 
balances of almost £14,000. They had about £1,000 in savings. The net monthly household 
income was about £2000, with essential monthly expenditure of £1,600 of which around 
£1,000 was used to service their debts. It was recorded that they were struggling financially.
Mr and Mrs D were said to be in good health. They both planned to retire at 66 when they 
expected to receive the basic state pension. Aside from Mr Ds deferred membership of his 
DB scheme, its recorded that he was in a group personal pension with his current employer, 
but this seems to have had a nominal value of around £600. Mrs D had a workplace 
pension, but no information was captured regarding its value. No information was captured 
about Mr Ds income requirements in retirement.
Mr D had accrued 18 years of reckonable service in his DB pension between 1977 and 
1995. The value of his annual pension when he reached 65 was said to be about £9,700. 
Alternatively, he couldve taken TFC of just over £48,000 and a reduced annual pension of 
around £7,300.
Mr Ds objectives were recorded in the following terms:
You wish to consider a transfer to allow future flexibility and potential lump sum death 
benefits and have stated that you will not depend upon this pension in retirement, and you 
would like to be able to access capital to pay off your loans and credit cards, rather than a 
fixed income.
Pareto issued a suitability report to Mr D dated 8 September 2016. Its recommendations 
and the rationale for these were recorded in the following terms:
I recommend that you transfer your [DB] Scheme benefits to a One Retirement plan with 
AEGON. I recommend that you take the maximum Pension Commencement Lump Sum of 
£41,952 immediately to meet your lump sum requirements, and repay your loans and credit 
cards. You intend to access your remaining pension fund from age 66 utilising drawdown.
I have recommended this course of action for the following reasons:
- You wish to be able to access the pension immediately and do not want a fixed pension 
and would only buy an annuity if you were forced to by circumstances at the time. The 
scheme pension is similar to an annuity in that it provides prescribed benefits and you lose 
future flexibility.
- You are unable to take immediate benefits from the scheme to provide your capital lump 
sum.
- Following transfer to a personal pension arrangement the full fund value is available as a 
potentially tax-free lump sum death benefit.
- You wish to have full flexibility with your pension, being able to take cash sums to suit your 
circumstances. You are aware that this is likely to impact on the pension/income you will 
receive in the future...
- The critical yields to match the scheme benefits are not potentially achievable but if you 
wished to match the scheme benefits I would not recommend a transfer.
- The recommended plan has an effective annual charge of 0.35% per annum.
In summary, by transferring your pension to the AEGON contract you have the potential to 
maximize your lump sum and take flexible income with a potential loss of guarantees and 
the full fund value is available as a potential tax free lump sum death benefit.
You will have the flexibility to take withdrawals as and when required, including the ability to 
take large single withdrawals, though you will lose the underlying guarantees provided by the 
scheme/PPF.
You are aware that by transferring your scheme benefits it is likely to impact on the pension 
income that you will receive in the future, but you would prefer to have future flexibility that is 
available through a personal pension arrangement not the prescribed scheme benefits.
Mr D accepted Paretos recommendations and in November 2016 his DB Scheme 
transferred £167,811 into his new pension arrangements. He received the TFC of £41,952 
and the residual funds, after fees, were invested consistent with his assessed attitude to risk 
within an Aegon personal pension.
In November 2021, MRL on behalf of Mr D raised a number of concerns about what had 
happened in 2016. It said Pareto had failed to collect sufficient information about him; it had 
failed to carry out a proper suitability analysis; its communications had been inadequate; and 
it said Pareto had been conflicted in the Service it provided because it was reliant on the 
transaction taking place to secure its fees.MRL said Mr D should be returned to the position hed have been in had he not transferred 
from his DB scheme, accepting some adjustment would be required to take into account the 
benefits hed already received.
Pareto arranged for a final response to Mr D from its AR. This was provided on 20 January 
2022. It didnt uphold his complaint. It also concluded in the following terms:
we find the advice to be suitable for [Mr Ds] objectives, capacity for loss, risk attitude and 
pension transfer attitude. It is clear to see that he was intending to transfer regardless of any 
perceived failings on our part to provide adequate information and that he has benefitted 
from the advantages that flexible drawdown has given him, and is enjoying an early 
retirement which he could not have achieved without our advice.
Mr D disagreed. In bringing his complaint he told this Service:
I would not have transferred my pension but for Pensionhelp's advice and involvement in 
this process and would have stayed with [my DB Scheme]. Whilst I acknowledge that my 
initial stated intention was to take a lump sum, this was an uninformed position, and having 
been properly advised, I would have appreciated the huge benefits to me of staying with the 
[DB] pension and would have done so and managed my debt issue in other ways, without 
having to relinquish the highly valuable defined benefit pension.
An Investigator considered Mr Ds complaint but didnt uphold it. After considering the 
evidence, she found that despite the transfer being likely to substantially erode the value of 
his benefits in retirement, he had a genuine need to access TFC to pay off his debts. 
Although there was limited evidence from Pareto about the research it did into alternatives to 
meet this objective, she concluded there wouldnt have been a reasonable alternative hed 
have opted for.
The Investigator found the transfer from Mr Ds Scheme had met his objectives. She also 
concluded, after talking to Mr D, that even if Pareto had advised him against accessing his 
benefits early, hed have still gone ahead anyway.
MRL on Mr Ds behalf disagreed. It said Pareto shouldve done more to explore the options 
available for managing his debt. It thought there wouldve been reasonable alternatives he 
was likely to have found acceptable. It rejected the Investigators conclusion that hed have 
proceeded with the transfer in any event, concluding in the following terms:
Only if Mr D had expressed a clear desire to press ahead with a transfer when he had been 
made fully aware of the other options open to him and the negative implications of 
transferring, can he be considered to be a genuinely insistent client. Given the failings in 
Paretos advice, he was never in this situation, he was never able to make a properly 
informed decision, and therefore it is wholly unreasonable for Pareto to seek to rely on any 
expression of interest in accessing cash on his part as a reason for avoiding liability for their 
unsuitable advice.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Ds case 
was passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision in March 2023. Im 
grateful to Pareto for its further submission which Ive thought about carefully in arriving at 
this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ds case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Pareto for Mr D. The FCA Handbook contains 11 Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Pareto. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
At the time of the advice Pareto gave Mr D, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes:
When advising a retail client who isa member of a (DB)s occupational pension 
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming 
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in the 
client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, Pareto was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr D to be able to make 
an informed decision.
- Give Mr D a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr D understood its comparison and its advice.In simple terms, Pareto had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available 
under the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements 
proposed before it advised Mr D on what to do.
COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on for a 
retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging (bringing 
about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
Did Pareto adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
Ive concluded that Pareto failed to meet the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain 
why. But this complaint is complicated by Mr Ds evidence, which appears to face both ways.
There are a number of documents relating to Paretos transaction with Mr D that are 
important to my consideration, these include the fact-find, the pension transfer analysis, 
communications between Mr D and his Scheme administrator prior to Paretos involvement, 
the suitability report and the complaint documents.
I note that Mr Ds interest in accessing his pensions pre-dated his engagement with Pareto. 
Hed been aware of the possibility of accessing his benefits from when he was 55. Hed been 
frustrated in his attempts to do so by taking early retirement because his Scheme fund 
wasnt sufficient to cover the guaranteed minimum pension (GMP), which it was obliged to 
meet.
Mr Ds recorded objectives when he took advice in 2016 were narrow and largely focussed 
on releasing TFC so he could pay down his debts. I think its a fundamental problem for 
Pareto that from the outset of the advice process and throughout, retirement planning seems 
to have played second fiddle to Mr D accessing his benefits early.
Theres no evidence Mr D had knowledge and experience of pension and investment 
matters. I think this shouldve been clear from the information Pareto gleaned. This shouldve 
put it on notice that it had to be careful if it was to recommend a transfer of his DB pension. 
And its important context when I consider what happened to him.
Mr D is recorded as struggling financially in 2016. His net monthly household income was 
about £2000, with essential monthly expenditure of £1,600, of which around £1,000 was 
used to service debts of around £44,000. So I can understand why the options of accessing 
TFC of about £43,000 from the transfer value of his DB pension was attractive to him.
However, I think Pareto stretches the actuality when it said in its final response to Mr D:
Given Mr Ds serious health condition of high blood pressure (a major cause of premature 
death), we remain confident that the advice we gave allowed [him] to achieve his objectives, 
reduce the stress and worry of being in debt and provide a suitable pathway to an early 
retirement which would not have been possible without our advice.
Paretos fact-find paints a somewhat more nuanced picture of Mr Ds financial position. He 
and his wife were in work. They had a very small mortgage. And there was no evidence they were defaulting on any of their debt repayments or any risk of them doing so. Thats not 
surprising considering household income exceeded outgoings by around £400 a month.
So while Mr D mayve indicated that he and his wife were struggling financially, the facts 
recorded suggest they had some headroom. If Mr Ds desire had been to reduce debt 
payment overheads, this couldve been utilised as part of a strategy to pay down his most 
expensive debt more quickly.
Further, while I note Mr Ds high-blood pressure was recorded at the time of the advice. The 
fact find also confirms he and his wife were in good health. There was no contemporaneous 
commentary provided linking his health with how he was feeling about either his financial 
position or his retirement plans.
In responding to Mr Ds complaint about its failure to consider how his objectives might 
otherwise have been met without transferring his pension, Pareto said:
We can confirm that these options [mortgage restructuring and a debt management plan] 
were considered, although they were not mentioned in the report. The addition of this in the 
report would have made the report far lengthier and more complicated. We can confirm, 
however, that these were considered and rejected as they would not assist with the 
objectives of Mr D. The report instead focussed on the options which were more relevant to 
him.
Its a weakness in Paretos position these considerations werent included in its report. Its 
response on this matter isnt persuasive. I think the key issue driving Mr Ds decision to 
transfer his pension benefits shouldve been given thorough coverage in its report.
In responding to my provisional decision on this matter Pareto said:
We strongly believe from the text of [the Ombudsmans] provisional decision dated 28th 
March 2023, that he has been influenced by the comments made by MRL in that there were 
alternative ways of managing the debt which had not been considered. We note that neither 
MRL nor [the Ombudsman] have put forward any reasonable alternatives. We are unaware 
of creditors writing off significant portions of debt when there are assets available to pay 
them. It is in fact the case, that had Mr D been unable to pay his debts, the most likely 
alternative would have been repossession rather than a writing down of his debt. We do not 
believe that Mr D could have walked away from his debt by paying a debt management 
company.
Im not persuaded by Paretos tack here. It has failed to address the facts that Mr D was 
making his repayments and he had £400 disposable income a month which couldve been 
used to tackle his outstanding debt more quickly. These are matters it found as part of the 
fact-find it undertook. There were also likely to have been many other options available to 
him if he was having short-term difficulties managing his finances, for example rescheduling, 
consolidation, payment holidays and so on. Again Pareto fails to address these matters 
effectively.
Pareto also raises the prospect that Mr Ds home couldve been repossessed. Unfortunately 
for it, its fact-find does not indicate that any of his outstanding debt was secured on his 
property. So, I think its more likely than not any such prospect was very remote. And thats 
even more the case because of all the other options he couldve explored. Again, I find 
Pareto overstates Mr Ds financial position to suit its case.
While on the face of it, accessing his pension benefits appeared to be a good match with Mr 
Ds immediate priorities, I dont think trading off his long-term retirement needs against short- 
term financial pressures was appropriate given his circumstances.The regulators position on DB transfers at the time was clear - the starting position was for 
Pareto to have presumed that such a transaction wouldnt be suitable. Based on the 
available evidence, I dont think it reached a threshold that made its recommendation to Mr 
D to transfer away from his DB scheme safe.
Pareto needed to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr D about what was in his 
best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many years are to 
provide for an income in retirement. And when a transfer and early access to benefits are 
recommended, there need to be compelling reasons. In terms of Mr Ds stated objective, I 
find this didnt provide a sufficiently strong rationale for Pareto recommending he transfer 
from his DB scheme.
Leaving Mr Ds objective to access his benefits early to one side, Ive thought about whether 
there were any other strong reasons for him to proceed with the transfer.
Considering the financial case for transfer. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
about £168,000 wasnt particularly attractive. It represented around 17 times the annual 
pension hed accrued (at its projected value in 2021), without allowing for indexation from 
that point.
Paretos advice was given during the period when this Service was publishing 'discount 
rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension 
transfer was being upheld. Businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice on pension transfers, but I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth 
rates wouldve been considered reasonably achievable when it advised him in 2016.
The pension transfer analysis report commissioned by Pareto noted that the investment 
return (critical yield) required to match Mr Ds deferred benefits was around 10.8% per year, 
if he were to retire at 65, taking all the benefits as an income, or 8.6% were he to take TFC 
and a reduced pension. This compares with the discount rate of 4.8% for 5 years to 
retirement.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
Given the composition of assets in the financial viability test, Mr Ds medium attitude to risk 
and also the term to retirement, its highly likely hed receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value in the new pension arrangement recommended by Pareto than were available 
from his DB Scheme.
As Pareto confirmed in its suitability report:
The critical yields to match the scheme benefits are not potentially achievable but if you 
wished to match the scheme benefits I would not recommend a transfer.
Paretos argument is the relevance of the financial case for transfer is limited because Mr D 
wanted TFC to pay off his debts. Ive already concluded this rationale was flawed. As was its 
approach to facilitate his wishes, which wasnt shown to have been clearly in his best 
interests.
Pareto assessed Mr D as having a balanced attitude to risk and a medium capacity for loss. 
It said:You have stated that you want to achieve higher medium-term returns than inflation. You 
understand that there may be occasional extended periods where your investments might 
fall in value. You have also been scored as having a medium capacity for loss.
And in making its recommendations Pareto said:
-You have stated that you have sufficient income elsewhere, and this pension, which 
accounts for 25% of your total assets, is not important to your retirement plans as 
you can meet your outgoings from other arrangements.
-You have a mixture of lump sum requirements and income requirements from this 
pension and would like to access your pension flexibly.
-You have stated that you want to achieve higher medium-term returns than inflation. 
You understand that there may be occasional extended periods where your 
investments might fall in value. You have also been scored as having a medium 
capacity for loss.
-The recommended policy allows you to invest in a portfolio designed to meet your 
attitude to risk and to take your benefits flexibly in the future. I have recommended a 
fund that takes into account your attitude to risk and your expected investment term.
On this basis, Mr Ds funds were invested broadly equally between bonds and equity. And 
each of these had a significant overseas holding.
Ive not seen any evidence of test and challenge in respect of Mr Ds responses to the 
questionnaire about his attitude to risk. Remember, he had little experience of investment or 
pension matters.
Worrying anomalies were left hanging. For example, the fact-find Pareto completed for him 
shows he had no savings to speak of and no investments. So, leaving aside his home, what 
was the basis for the assessment the transaction represented only 25% of his assets?
Its also recorded Mr Ds DB pension wasnt important to his retirement plans. Yet, aside 
from a tiny personal pension with his then existing employer (recorded as being worth £600 
at the time of the advice), his only other provision was a basic state pension.
A significant portion of the DB transfer value was in respect of a Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension (GMP). This only applies to people who were contracted out of the Additional State 
Pension between 6 April 1978 to 5 April 1997. Theres no comment or analysis of this in the 
suitability report.
Its also unclear how Pareto could reasonably assess Mr D as having a medium capacity for 
loss, given what we know from the fact-find about his savings, investments, pensions and 
other assets. I think its more reasonable to deduce he had no or little capacity for loss in 
terms of his retirement planning.
Mr D had around 6 years until he retired. He was being advised to move his pension benefits 
to invest in bonds and equities, in the UK and overseas. He had no knowledge of these. His 
retirement income was being exposed to market risk. On the other hand, his DB scheme 
provided for annual indexation of his pension pre and post retirement. These were risk-free 
adjustments to be borne by the scheme.
Another weakness in Paretos position is that theres no evidence that it got to the bottom of 
what income Mr D required in retirement. This question was fundamental to him being able 
to make fully formed decisions about what he should do about his deferred DB scheme. I note the fact-find indicated Mr Ds intention was to continue working until the age of 66. The 
SRD of his DB scheme was 65.
Pareto has said it gave Mr D all the necessary risk warnings indicating he was required to 
take responsibility for the decision to transfer. While I think he wouldve understood those 
warnings, disclosure of risks doesnt of itself make the advice suitable.
Pareto has maintained that its advice to Mr D was suitable, but its also asserted that the 
transfer was something he always wanted to do and wouldve done irrespective of any 
perceived failings on its part. In responding to my provisional decision it said:
All parties involved in the transaction that had direct contact with Mr D concluded that on the 
balance of probabilities, Mr D would have transferred this pension irrespective of the 
outcome of our report. These parties include Lighthouse Financial Advice (who introduced 
the client to Pensionhelp  which was after discussing other options regarding his debt) and 
Pensionhelp (its adviser at the time of the transfer and subsequently its complaints 
investigator).
Furthermore, in your investigation, you confirmed that you had as part of your investigations 
confirmed with Mr D that this was the case  i.e. he has stated to you that he would have 
transferred.
The only party who has had contact with Mr D who has stated that he transferred only on 
the basis of Pensionhelps report are Money Redress Limited (MRL) who we would 
respectfully point out are conflicted by their no-win, no-fee charging model. They are taking 
between 15 and 30% of any lump sum awarded.
In responding to the Investigators view, MRL made the following observations:
You concludeMr D was effectively insistent and that even if Pareto had recommended 
against the transfer, he would have insisted on going ahead anyway. We do not accept this 
conclusioneven government debt guidance acknowledges that many consumers 
struggling with debt issues initially consider accessing their pension as a means of sorting 
out their finances. The role of a financial adviser is to put them into a position to make a 
properly informed decision about whether to do so. Mr Ds expression of interest to access 
his PCLS was made in a clearly uninformed position, prior to receipt of any financial advice 
and Paretos failure to look into alternative ways of managing his debt meant that he was 
never put into an informed position in 2016.
The FCAs finalized guidance on DB transfer advice (FG21/3) was published in March 2021 
but reflects a lengthy consultation period and applies the underlying COBS rules in place at 
the time of Paretos advice. Paragraph 5.7 says: We know that many consumers exhibit 
present bias. This is where they value a lump sum today more than a future stream of 
income, even where the two are equivalent in value. So emotionally, many of them have 
already committed to the transfer and have plans for accessing the cash and spending it. 
Where relevant, the TVC offers you the opportunity to correct their misunderstandings and 
biases. You should make sure you do not reinforce their misperceptions or undermine the 
intent of the TV.
I understand the points being made by both parties here. But Ive come to a different 
conclusion to the Investigator.
Its a problem for Mr D he appears to face both ways in his testimony to this Service. Hes 
acknowledged trying to get access to his DB funds for some time prior to Paretos 
involvement. Hes told the Investigator he was happy with the transfer. And yet MRL, with his 
agreement, have raised a raft of concerns and challenged the suitability of the advice. On balance, Ive placed more weight on Paretos failings in this case, given well established 
regulatory guard-rails for pension transfers.
In responding to my provisional decision Pareto said:
there is nothing which Pensionhelp has done which has influenced Mr D to take any 
action which has caused him loss. Given the facts of the complaint and your own 
investigations, it is very clear that on the balance of probability, Mr D would have proceeded 
with the transfer even if our report had mentioned debt management. His debt and wish to 
avoid debt management was the very issue that he was addressing. His mind was made up 
before he approached Pensionhelp and he has confirmed this to you as the case 
investigator for the Financial Ombudsman service.
Good advice doesnt only provide customers with a clear path for decision making in their 
best interests, it can also reveal misunderstandings, challenge initial thinking and provide 
critical insights about life-impacting financial matters, resulting in changes to their initial 
inclinations and intended actions.
The problem for Pareto is that it didnt recommend Mr D shouldnt transfer his DB pension 
even though it knew by doing so it would damage his income in retirement. So its on the 
backfoot here. He followed its advice. However strong his motivation was to move his 
pension provision, this was certainly reinforced by its actions, which wouldve also given him 
reassurance it was the right thing to do.
It was Paretos role to discern what Mr Ds wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and 
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. I dont think it 
demonstrably met these obligations because it ended up recommending an unsuitable 
transfer to him.
There are several weaknesses Ive highlighted in Paretos provision of information, analysis 
and advice to Mr D, and in the processes it followed. These mean that I cant be confident 
had these been put right, and had Mr D received proper guidance and support in respect of 
any financial concerns he had at the time, together with fully formed retirement planning, this 
wouldnt have had a significant impact on his decision making.
Ultimately I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr D wouldve ignored 
advice not to proceed with the transfer. 
I think Pareto shouldve provided Mr D with unequivocal advice not to proceed with the 
transfer from his DB scheme to take TFC and invest the residual funds into a personal 
pension. I say this because it failed to reach the required threshold to demonstrate based on 
contemporary evidence that such a transaction was clearly in his best interests. Instead, it 
recommended his benefits be transferred and he was exposed to unnecessary risk.
Ive concluded its more likely than not, had Pareto given Mr D appropriate advice, he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer from his DB scheme. Its unusual for someone to 
seek professional advice and then go against the recommendations received.
To conclude I dont think the recommendation by Pareto to transfer from Mr Ds DB scheme 
could sensibly be regarded as fair to him. As such I think it failed to meet the regulatory 
requirements placed on it when providing him with such advice and making the 
arrangements.So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its fair and reasonable to uphold 
this complaint against Pareto and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. Pareto Financial Planning Limited should pay Mr D the amount 
produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Pareto Financial Planning Limited pays Mr D the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Pareto doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr D can accept my decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf.
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance-https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules came into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Pareto Financial Planning Limited to put Mr D, 
as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I 
consider Mr D wouldve remained in his DB scheme had he received fuller information, 
better guidance and effective advice.
I think Mr D wouldve taken benefits from the scheme as soon as he was able to before the 
scheme retirement date (SRD) of 65, and at that time taking the maximum tax-free cash 
(TFC) available to him. This would be accepting, had this been possible, it wouldve led to an 
actuarial adjustment.
Mr D has had the benefits of TFC and a stream of income from his annuity. These facts will 
need to be taken into account in the redress.
Pareto Financial Planning Limited should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line 
with the pension review methodology, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
Pareto Financial Planning Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement 
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date 
Pareto Financial Planning Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Pareto to pay Mr D.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pareto Financial Planning Limited 
deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. It 
should give Mr D a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint and so I require Pareto 
Financial Planning Limited to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman