DRN-3437522
The complaint and background
Mrs G has complained about how National Westminster Bank Plc has responded to her 
financial difficulties. She says that because of NatWests failure to help her, she now has an 
outstanding debt consisting largely of interest and charges that NatWest applied to her 
account. 
NatWest looked at Mrs Gs complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong, so Mrs G 
referred her complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Gs complaint. She felt that NatWest should have 
realised Mrs G might be struggling with her account by January 2017. So the adjudicator 
recommended that NatWest refund to Mrs G the charges and interest incurred from January 
2017 onwards and backdate any negative information on Mrs Gs credit file to January 2017.
NatWest agreed to refund the interest applied since January 2017 in line with the 
adjudicators findings. But Mrs G remained unhappy as she felt that the majority of the debt 
that would remain after the refund was still made up of interest and charges. As an 
agreement could not be reached, this complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, I agree with our adjudicators findings that NatWest 
should have identified that Mrs G was struggling to manage her account by January 2017. 
So Im satisfied that what our adjudicator has recommended is fair in all the circumstances of 
this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs G feels that after the refund the adjudicator has recommended has 
been done, the majority of her debt will still be made up of interest and charges, but I dont 
agree thats the case. Looking at Mrs Gs statements I can see that when she was still using 
her account her spending was often in excess of the income she was receiving into the 
account. So while I acknowledge that some of the outstanding balance will be from charges 
and interest that were applied prior to 2017, a large proportion of the balance is also from 
Mrs Gs spending.
And as Ive said, I think NatWest should have identified that Mrs G was struggling with her 
account by January 2017. This means that it is only from 2017 onwards that I think it was 
unreasonable for NatWest to have added any charges or interest onto her outstanding 
overdraft balance. The interest and charges from before 2017 were added in line with the 
terms and conditions of Mrs Gs account. And in the absence of any evidence to show that 
Mrs G told NatWest she was struggling financially and needed help before 2018  which is 
the earliest that NatWests evidence shows her making contact  I cant fairly say that 
NatWest was wrong to add those charges and interest.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs G. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Gs complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Gs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from January 2017 onwards are removed.
AND
As I understand an outstanding balance will remain on the overdraft once these 
adjustments have been made by NatWest, it should contact Mrs G to arrange a 
suitable repayment plan, Mrs G is encouraged to cooperate with NatWest to 
reach a suitable agreement. If NatWest still considers it appropriate to record 
negative information on Mrs Gs credit file, it should backdate this to reflect what 
would have been recorded if it had started the process of taking corrective action 
on the overdraft in January 2017.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman