DRN-1106318
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the settlement amount offered for his camera equipment claim. His 
home insurance policy is provided by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited.
Throughout the complaint Ill refer to LV rather than their representatives.
What happened
Mr B made a claim after his camera equipment was damaged by sea water. LV accepted the 
claim and made several cash offers. Mr B didnt accept these and put forward a different 
replacement camera suggestion as his old one was no longer available. LV didnt agree, it 
said this was a better camera. As a compromise it offered the value of the next camera down 
in the same range as the camera Mr B had put forward with a further cash adjustment up to 
a total of £1,300 after the excess had been deducted. In relation to the camera tripod Mr B 
said it didnt work as well since the sea water had damaged it. But LV inspected the item and 
said it was still in working order, so it didnt agree to settle this part of the claim. Mr B didnt 
accept this and brought his complaint to this service about his camera and the tripod, all 
other elements have been resolved.
Our investigator upheld the claim. She said as the camera couldnt be replaced with the 
exact same model. She also said the cash settlement based on a lower specification model 
was unfair. Our investigator said LV should settle the claim based on the camera Mr B had 
suggested being the closest replacement. As Mr B had already had the cash settlement the 
remaining cost to allow Mr B to buy the camera should be paid to him by LV with simple 
interest paid at 8% per year added from the date of claim to the date of settlement. 
Regarding the tripod our investigator accepted what LV had said. She said this element of 
the claim wasnt paid for as there were no signs of any damage being caused by the sea 
water. Our investigator accepted this evidence. As the parties didnt accept this the 
complaint was passed on to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
camera
The amounts offered by LV for the camera have increased quite substantially from the first 
offer made on this claim. The initial offer I see noted was £703. The final cash offer was 
£1,300. But the debate between the parties has continued in relation to the features of the 
different models. LV has highlighted the more superior features on the new camera whereas 
Mr B has pointed out the features from his old camera that this new model doesnt offer.
However, I think the points made on LVs file are crucial to a fair and reasonable outcome. At 
one point I note that LV said in relation to the camera selected by Mr B its the closest match. At another point in the file I can see that LV said its internal expert agreed that it was 
the most similar camera. I think this evidence pretty much speaks for itself. This tells me 
quite clearly that the camera put forward as the most like for like replacement by Mr B is 
indeed the most appropriate camera to put him back in the position he was prior to the loss. 
As partial settlement has already been paid to Mr B LV should settle for the remaining 
amount in cash to allow Mr B to buy the camera he suggested as a suitable replacement. LV 
should add to this 8% simple interest per year from the date of the claim to the date of 
settlement for this amount.
Tripod
Mr B provided LV access to the tripod to check it after he claimed for it. From the check LV 
did it said it didnt think it was damaged and said it was still useable and in working order. LV 
said it didnt think the tripod had suffered sea water damage. Mr B had been offered the 
chance to get his own report on the item but didnt feel it would be worth it as the cost of 
getting a report might outweigh the value of the tripod. But Mr B did get details from the 
manufacturer that said salt water could cause damage.
As LV have inspected the tripod, I think the evidence it provided is more persuasive. So I 
think LV acted reasonably when it declined to deal with the claim for the tripod. 
Putting things right
Pay the remaining amount of cash needed to buy the camera Mr B suggested as a 
replacement;
Add to this cash amount 8% simple interest per year from the date of the claim to the date of 
settlement for this amount.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay the remaining amount of cash needed to buy the camera Mr B suggested as a 
replacement;
Add to this cash amount 8% simple interest per year from the date of the claim to the 
date of settlement for this amount.
 
*If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr B certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman