DRN-3111022
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard wrongly closed his 
account, and wrote to his family saying he was deceased. Mr S also complains about what 
Barclays did to resolve this problem for him. 
What happened
Mr S told us that because he works away from home, hes found it easier to route the direct 
debit payments he makes to his Barclaycard through a relatives account. Sadly, that relative 
passed away, and this meant that this direct debit failed. 
Mr S said that Barclays then presumed that he had died, even though the name on the 
account paying the direct debit wasnt the same as the name on the card. It locked his online 
banking account, and it wouldnt tell him why, just saying that this was because of technical 
issues. Mr Ss family then received a letter saying that, as he had died, the estate would 
need to clear his debt. 
Mr S said that if he had been working away when this letter arrived, this could have been 
extremely distressing for his family. Fortunately he was at home when this letter arrived. And 
he said this all affected his credit file too.
Mr S said that when he contacted Barclays, it didnt take his complaint. It reopened the 
account, even though he told it he didnt want that. It then reinstated the direct debit to his 
late relatives account, resulting in his payment failing again. And Mr S said that Barclays 
had told him it would write off this debt, but it was now asking him to pay. 
Mr S asked us to liaise with his representative about this in future, as he would be working 
away from home again.
When Mr S complained, Barclays wrote to him to apologise. It thought this account shouldnt 
have been closed. It was sorry that it had sent letters to his family saying he was deceased. 
And it was sorry that it didnt take his complaint when he first asked it to. It was sorry that this 
had affected his credit file, both before the account closure and when the account was 
reinstated, because it had put the direct debit back onto his late relatives account. 
Barclays told Mr S it had now amended his credit file. And it had offered £200 in 
compensation. It understood he didnt want to accept that, because he didnt think that was 
enough. He would be complaining to our service instead. 
Barclays also wrote to the family member it sent the letter to, saying that Mr S was 
deceased. It apologised for what it said was human error, and paid £50 in compensation.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that it was clear that 
Barclays had made a mistake in closing Mr Ss account. Shed listened to the call that Mr S 
had with Barclays on 28 January 2021. She said that Barclays had told Mr S on that call that 
his account would be reopened, and he would need to clear the balance. She said she 
couldnt hear any commitment by Barclays to clear Mr Ss debt, or to close his account for 
him. She did think that Barclays should have picked up Mr Ss complaint on this call.
Our investigator said that she understood Mr S was concerned about what the impact could 
have been on his family, but fortunately he wasnt away from home when the incorrect 
correspondence was received. She said Barclays had shown us it had removed negative 
data from Mr Ss credit file. And she didnt think it was unreasonable for Mr S still to have to 
pay the balance on his account. 
Our investigator thought a payment of £200 compensation for the level of service and the 
delays was fair, as well as in line with what she would have recommended, had no offer 
been made. She said Barclays had told us it would still make this payment if Mr S wanted to 
accept it now. 
Mr Ss representative replied on his behalf, to say she didnt agree. She had understood 
Barclays offer was just for poor service, not for everything that had gone wrong. So she still 
thought that to resolve this complaint, Barclays should write off Mr Ss debt, or at least a 
percentage of it. 
But our investigator didnt change her mind. She still thought Barclays had made a fair offer. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Barclays has accepted that it made a number of mistakes here. It hasnt accepted, however, 
that it promised to close this account or to write off Mr Ss debt. So Ive listened to the call Mr 
S had with Barclays. And, like our investigator, I think that Barclays did say it would have to 
reopen Mr Ss account. Barclays ended the call by telling Mr S he would get a new card. 
On the call, I can hear Barclays agent say he understood that Mr S might not want to keep 
the account after what had happened, so once it had been reopened and the issue resolved, 
he could then close it if he wanted to. I also dont think Barclays offered to clear this debt for 
Mr S. It told him that it only does that when someone has died, and the balance is below 
£100. And, as Barclays ended the call, it told Mr S that he could either transfer the balance 
on his card elsewhere or pay it off, if he wanted this account to close. 
I think Barclays was also clear, in its letter of 12 March 2021, that Mr Ss account was now 
open again, and interest would start to accrue once more.
I know that Mr S has found this upsetting, for himself and for his family. But I wouldnt expect 
Barclays to write off Mr Ss debt, as a result of its mistakes. What I would expect Barclays to 
do, is to take steps to put things right, and then, because of whats gone wrong here, I would 
also expect it to pay compensation to Mr S. So what I need to think about now is the 
appropriate amount of compensation in this case. 
Mr Ss representative said she thought Barclays offer of £200 was just for poor service, not 
for all the things that had gone wrong. Having read Barclays letter of 22 April 2021, I think 
that the offer Barclays made was in respect of all the things it thought had gone wrong here. 
And even if that werent the case, our service does look at issues in the round. So I have considered all the issues Mr S has raised, and what Barclays has done to date, including 
whats gone wrong and what Barclays has done to put things right. Ive assessed the case 
accordingly. And, although I know that Mr S and his representative wont agree with me, I do 
think that a payment of £200 provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. That 
is in line with what I would have awarded here, if Barclays hadnt already made this offer.
I dont think that Barclays has yet paid this money to Mr S. So my decision will require it to 
do so now, if it hasnt done so already.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr S £200 in compensation for this 
complaint, if it hasnt done so already.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman