DRN-4123659
The complaint
Mr T complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk
(MoneyBoat) provided him with loans without carrying out the proper checks. Had it done
so, MoneyBoat wouldve realised these loans werent affordable for him.
What happened
Mr T was advanced two loans, a summary of his borrowing can be found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateinstalments instalment 
amount
1 £500.00 07/05/2021 28/07/2021 3 £229.33
2 £800.00 28/07/2021 outstanding 6 £248.33
Mr T has had some problems repaying his final loan and MoneyBoat has said an
outstanding balance remains due.
Following Mr Ts complaint, MoneyBoat wrote to him to explain it had carried out
affordability checks which showed Mr T could afford the loan repayments. Unhappy, Mr T
then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he thought MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided
either loan. He said the credit check for loan 1 showed a number of outstanding payday
loans as well as defaults and delinquent accounts, which ought to have prompted further
checks by MoneyBoat. Had further checks been carried out MoneyBoat wouldnt have
approved either of these loans because Mr T was spending significant sums on gambling.
MoneyBoat didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. MoneyBoat accepted that at
loan 1 there was some adverse information but there had been no adverse entries recorded
on Mr Ts credit file within the last year  the most recent being March 2020. MoneyBoat also
couldnt see the payday loans in the credit report which the adjudicator had mentioned.
Finally, MoneyBoat believed it wouldnt have known about Mr Ts gambling as it doesnt think
additional checks were needed.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. I then issued my 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this 
final decision.
Both parties were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as possible, 
but no later than 10 May 2023. 
MoneyBoat didnt respond to or acknowledge the provisional decision. 
Mr T responded and Ive summarised his email below:
The loans were irresponsibly provided. 
Had MoneyBoat looked at his bank statements it wouldve seen the gambling 
transactions and therefore it wouldnt have provided the loans. 
Mr T said hes seen examples of similar complaints to his on our website which have 
been upheld (and he provided a screen shot on one that he found).
Mr T provided a copy of his bank statements covering the period of January 2021 to 
July 2021  the period of time when his loans were approved.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr T could afford to pay back the
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Mr Ts income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr T. These factors include:
Mr T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr T.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay the loans 
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr T was
able to repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ts complaint.What I said in the provisional decision 
Loan 1
MoneyBoat has shown that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr T for details
of his income and expenditure. Mr Ts income has been recorded as being £3,000 per
month.
Mr T also declared his monthly outgoings were £1,750  which covered costs such as
rent, food, credit commitments, transport and other. However, following further checks
(including a credit search which I comment on below) MoneyBoat didnt feel there was a
need to adjust Mr Ts declared expenditure.
This left Mr T with disposable monthly income of £1,250. This was more than sufficient for
MoneyBoat to believe Mr T could afford the largest monthly repayment of around £230. The
loan, therefore, looked affordable.
Before this loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of the results it received from the
credit reference agency. I want to add that although MoneyBoat carried out a credit search
there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what
MoneyBoat couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the
information it received  if necessary.
MoneyBoat was also entitled to rely on the information it was given. So, Ive taken a look at
the results to see whether there was anything contained within it that wouldve either
prompted MoneyBoat to have carried out further checks or to have declined Mr Ts
application.
Having reviewed these results, I can see that Mr T was at the time repaying two credit cards,
that were near the credit limits of £200 each  but the payments were up to date with no
adverse information recorded against them. The credit check also suggested Mr T was up to
date with his two outstanding loan accounts as well. But these werent payday loans and I
say this because both loans were opened in the middle of 2019. These loans were costing
him £569 per month.
I accept there was some adverse information reported, for example a County Court
Judgement in December 2017 and a number of historic defaults. However, I do think, these
were all too far removed from Mr Ts loan start date that MoneyBoat could reasonably not be
concerned by them. And there was, at various points, a history of Mr T taking out and
repaying payday loans. However, at the time the loan was approved, his accounts were up
to date and he didnt, as far as I can see have any outstanding payday loans outstanding.
The summary page of the credit check also suggested that Mr T hadnt been a recent user of
payday loans because in the six months before this loan was advanced, he hadnt been
granted any new credit. Which is further evidence that Mr T wasnt stuck in a cycle of
borrowing and / or was a regular current user of payday loans.
Given this was the first loan and the start of the lending relationship, I disagree with the
adjudicator that the credit search results showed a number of outstanding payday loans. As
a result, this means that I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for MoneyBoat to have
reviewed Mr Ts bank statements.
Overall, for loan 1, the checks MoneyBoat carried out were proportionate and showed it that
Mr T would be able to afford his loan repayments. I am therefore intending to not uphold
Mr Ts complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
This loan was taken out on the same day that loan 1 was repaid and Mr T borrowed slightlymore to be repaid over a longer term  6 months. Ive kept this in mind when thinking about
the checks MoneyBoat carried out. But loan 1 had been repaid in a satisfactory manner and
that wouldnt have given MoneyBoat any cause for concern.
MoneyBoat carried out the same type of checks for this loan as it had done so for the
previous one. So, it asked Mr T for his income, and he declared it to be £2,900 per month. It
also asked about his expenditure, which was declared as being £1,950 per month. As
before, following further checks, MoneyBoat didnt feel the need to make any adjustments
to Mr Ts declared expenditure. Therefore, he was left with £950 per month in disposable
income in which to be able to afford his loan repayments.
A credit search was also again carried out and a copy of the results have been provided.
This time, MoneyBoat was told that two new accounts had been opened in the previous six
months. But I think its reasonable to say that one of those account wouldve been Mr Ts
first loan.
The extra credit account Mr T had opened was a personal loan termed as Finance House.
However, given the value and the apparent term, this doesnt appear to have been a payday
loan, but it may well have been a high-cost credit loan. Even with this monthly repayment
accounted for, loan 2 still looked affordable.
The credit file shows much as the same (apart from the above new account) as was visible
when loan 1 was approved. Which means while there was historic adverse data such as
defaults and a history of taking out payday loans. But at this time, given what MoneyBoat
already knew I wouldnt say the checks needed to go further than they did. Which means it
was entitled to rely on the information Mr T had provided which showed the loan was
affordable for him.
Having taken account of everything that MoneyBoat was told and provided with, I still think,
even with the increase in borrowing that it was still just about reasonable for MoneyBoat to
rely on the information Mr T had provided. It therefore follows that Im going to conclude the
checks were proportionate and it didnt need to do anymore.
I have looked at Mr Ts bank statements, and I can see the gambling that he refers too.
However, that wasnt reflected in the information MoneyBoat collected and as Ive explained
above, I dont think it had yet reached the stage where it needed to verify the information that
was being provided by him.
I appreciate that Mr T will be disappointed with the outcome that I am intending to reach. He
will still likely have an outstanding balance that needs to be repaid and I would remind
MoneyBoat of its regulatory obligation to treat Mr T fairly and with forbearance when working
with him.
Further considerations 
I have considered the additional comments provided by Mr T and having done so, in this 
instance, it hasnt changed my mind about the outcome that I was intending to reach, and 
Ive explained why below. 
I have thought about the complaint example Mr T has provided from our website. But I do 
need to say that it is just an example, of what we may do in a case, depending on the 
individual circumstances which may include but not be limited to the information declared by 
the consumer, the level and types of checks the lender conducted (and what those checks 
showed). 
Based on the individual circumstances of Mr Ts complaint  and considering the approach 
that we take to what a proportionate check may show, I am not satisfied that the information 
MoneyBoat gathered either from Mr T or from the credit check it carried out wouldve or 
shouldve prompted it to have carried out further checks. I accept there was some adverse information present, but in my view, it was too long before 
the loans were approved for MoneyBoat to think that Mr T had current financial difficulties 
and or / was already struggling to repay his existing debts. And therefore, I dont think I can 
fairly say that it wouldve prompted MoneyBoat to have carried out further checks, such as 
looking at his bank statements. 
And I do agree, in as much as if MoneyBoat wouldve been prompted to verify or check 
Mr Ts financial position, then looking at the bank statements he has provided than its clear 
the loans wouldnt have been granted. But for the reasons previously explained, I dont think 
it reached the point where bank statements needed to be reviewed, and as such, 
MoneyBoat wouldnt have been aware of Mr Ts gambling transactions. 
Having reviewed Mr Ts comments and evidence I have reached the same outcome as I did 
in the provisional decision. MoneyBoat carried out proportionate checks which showed it that 
the loans were affordable. 
I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint, but an outstanding balance remains due and I would 
remind MoneyBoat of its obligation to treat Mr T fairly and with forbearance  if necessary. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman