DRN-3372923
Complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt do more to protect 
her from fraud.
Background
Mrs L has an account with NatWest. In early 2020, she started using this account to make 
payments in connection with an investment in cryptocurrency. Shed seen an advert 
promoting cryptocurrency investments in late 2019. She made an initial investment of £250 
using a credit card. Shortly afterwards, a representative of the investment company 
contacted her and persuaded her to invest more money.
The payments werent made directly to the company that had contacted her. Instead, she 
used an account with a third-party payment processor. She was reassured by the fact that 
the payments were being processed by a firm that was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). She was also told that this meant that, if anything went wrong, her 
investments would be protected under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. In 
total, she made eight payments over a period of several months. The total value of these 
payments was around £67,000.
Unfortunately, the person she had been speaking to was not the representative of a 
legitimate financial business, but a scammer. During the period she made these transfers, a 
notification was posted on the FCA website warning customers of the risks of investing with 
this company.
Once Mrs L realised that shed fallen victim to a scam, she contacted NatWest. It 
investigated but said it wouldnt pay her a refund. It said that Mrs L shouldve been more 
diligent in carrying out checks on the company before making these investments. If shed 
done so at the outset, shed have found that it was unregulated. For the later payments, 
shed have found the warning on the FCA website that indicated this company was likely a 
scam.
Mrs L was unhappy with that response, so she referred a complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator said that NatWest needed 
monitor Mrs Ls account and be on the lookout for payments that might have been 
connected to fraud. But he didnt think that these payments wouldve appeared out of 
character from NatWests perspective. Mrs L had made significant large (and legitimate) 
payments in the months leading up to the scam. 
In response to the Investigators view, Mrs L said that 2019 was unrepresentative of her 
general spending and that, if NatWest had looked at her spending patterns over a longer 
period of time, these payments made in connection with the investment wouldve been more 
clearly out of character.
The information submitted by NatWest showed that the account from which these payments 
were made was opened at the start of 2019, but Mrs L said shed been with NatWest for 
some time before that. The Investigator clarified with NatWest whether Mrs L had had 
previous accounts. Its records showed that she had at least one previous account but that it 
closed in 2014. It couldnt find any indication that Mrs L had an account between 2014 and 
2019. The Investigator asked Mrs L whether she had any evidence showing that she held an 
account during this period, but she didnt reply.
Mrs L also said that NatWest has since added a warning regarding the risk of cryptocurrency 
scams to its online payment process. She also referred to a news article that was critical of 
NatWests handling of fraud complaints more generally.
Because Mrs L disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common ground that Mrs L authorised the scam payments. She was tricked into 
instructing her bank to transfer those sums on the basis that she was investing her money in 
cryptocurrency. I accept that these payments were authorised even though Mrs L was the 
victim of a sophisticated scam. She used her security credentials to request the payments. 
She didnt intend the money to go to the scammers. Nonetheless, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of her account she is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
With the benefit of hindsight, it is now known that Mrs L was the victim of fraud. However, I 
must consider whether NatWest ought to have recognised that she was at enhanced risk of 
fraud at the time given what it knew. 
Ive considered this point carefully and Im not persuaded it could reasonably have been 
expected to identify the risk and intervened. By the time Mrs L started authorising payments 
to the scammers, shed made several much larger payments. In 2019, she authorised eleven 
payments of £20,000 from this account. By contrast, the payments she made in connection 
with the scam were much smaller. There were eight payments in total, but only two of these 
were for more than £10,000.  I understand that some of these payments were made in 
connection with other legitimate investments and some were sent as gifts to family 
members. Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for NatWest to have treated these payments as being in keeping with the way the account had been used in the preceding 
year. 
Mrs L said that this might be the case for the way the account was used in 2019, but that 
was not a typical year. She had sold her home and the proceeds of the sale were paid into 
her NatWest account. These larger payments were her distributing the proceeds of the sale. 
If NatWest had considered patterns of use over a longer period, it wouldve recognised that 
her payments in connection with the scam were out of character. However, this account was 
opened in 2019. NatWest identified an account in Mrs Ls name that closed in 2014, but 
nothing between these two points in time. Mrs L has also not been able to provide any 
record of an account. It was therefore reasonable for NatWest to judge the risk of fraud 
based on her account usage throughout 2019.
Mrs L says that NatWest shouldve been mindful of the risk of fraud given who she was 
making the payments to  a electronic money institution that specialised in transferring funds 
in connection with the purchase of cryptocurrency. I think the implication here is that there 
should be a presumption that any payment connected with cryptocurrency is fraudulent. It is 
true that there are clear risks associated with investing in cryptoassets. However, I dont 
think it follows that all transactions connected with an investment in cryptocurrency are more 
likely than not connected with an attempted fraud or that individuals who want to invest their 
money in cryptoassets shouldnt be free to do so. A balance must be struck by NatWest 
between monitoring accounts for fraudulent activity and allowing legitimate payments to be 
made.
I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish the fact that Mrs L has been the victim of a 
cruel and cynical scam. I know that she will be hugely disappointed with my decision. But 
overall, Im satisfied that NatWest didnt do anything wrong in processing these payments. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman