DRN-3368002
The complaint
Mr K complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited treated him unfairly when it insisted on 
carrying out a due diligence call before it would transfer his pension pot from Standard Life 
to his SIPP. Mr K says the call resulted in an unnecessary delay and was not a regulatory 
requirement.
What happened
I understand that Mr K wanted to transfer a pension pot he held with Standard Life to a 
SIPP. Mr K says he had previously transferred other pension pots to this SIPP and wanted 
to continue to consolidate his pension savings.
The request to transfer was received by Standard Life on 9 September 2020. 
On 10 September 2020, Standard Life asked Mr Ks SIPP provider for information. This 
information was not provided to Standard Life until 23 October 2020. It appears there was a 
delay as the SIPP provider queried why the information was required. Standard Life 
explained that the Pension Scheme Tax Reference number did not match the Origo 
instruction it had received.
On 29 October 2020, Standard Life emailed Mr K. It said:
Before we can proceed with your transfer request we must first carry out some Due 
Diligence checks. As a result, we need to have a conversation with you about your transfer 
journey.
It explained that these calls were booked on a first come, first served basis, and asked Mr K 
to let it know his availability from 17 November 2020.
Mr K responded to Standard Life that day. He said:
I have no intention of holding a meeting with you to discuss my pension transfer.
He explained that he felt discussing his transfer request with Standard Life was not in his 
best interests and would add unnecessary delays to the transfer process. Mr K also said 
he was willing to sign a waiver confirming his refusal to agree to discuss his pension 
transfer with Standard Life.
Standard Life replied to Mr K and explained that it had chosen to follow the Combating 
Pension Scams - A Code of Good Practice, to ensure its due diligence procedures met both 
its obligations, and its customers needs. It said it wasnt willing to allow the transfer to 
proceed until it had carried out a due diligence call with Mr K.
Mr K remained unhappy with Standard Lifes approach and complained.
Standard Life did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. It reiterated that he would need to complete a 
due diligence call for the transfer to proceed.
A due diligence call was subsequently carried out in mid-December 2020 and Mr Ks 
pension pot was transferred from Standard Life to his SIPP shortly afterwards.
Mr K referred the matter to this service. He said he felt that Standard Life had treated him 
unfairly by insisting on a due diligence call. He said there was no regulatory requirement to 
discuss a transfer request before actioning it. And he said Standard Lifes insistence on carry 
out a call had unnecessarily delayed the transfer of his pension pot.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
checks Standard Life had put in place were designed to protect both Mr K and Standard Life. 
As this was the case, he said he didnt think it had acted unfairly by insisting on speaking to 
Mr K before it transferred his pension pot. He noted that if Standard Life didnt take adequate 
steps to protect its customers from falling victim to a scam or fraud it could be held 
responsible for any loss suffered, so the checks were intended to protect both Mr K and 
Standard Life.
Mr K was not satisfied with our investigators view. He said, in summary, that he didnt feel 
the investigator had fully considered whether the due diligence call Standard Life required 
was effective in helping to combat pension scams. He said he felt it was superficial and 
frankly achieve nothing. And he said he felt it would identify few if any frauds and simply 
adds delays to a process.
Mr K also said:
If the Regulators and Ombudsman really want to protect the interest of Consumers and 
Investors then part of that role must include an element of ensuring that processes 
implemented by Organisations that are Regulated by them actually achieve protection of 
Consumers and Investors that they are apparently trying to protect and hence there must be 
some real substance to processes of a Regulated Organisation and not just an optical 
illusion as is the case with Standard Lifes process for combating pension scams.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Standard Life has acted incorrectly in this matter or treated 
Mr K unfairly. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that there is no regulatory requirement on pension providers to speak to a 
customer about the risk of pension scams and fraud, before allowing a customer to transfer 
their pension pot to another provider. But pension providers are required to take steps to 
reduce financial crime and to treat their customers fairly. 
But, if as part of its due diligence checks, Standard Life wants to speak to a customer before 
it transfers their pension pot to another provider, to reduce the possibility of the customer 
becoming a victim of a pension scam, there is nothing to prevent it from including this check 
in its internal compliance procedures. 
Mr K says he feels it is unfair that Standard Life insisted on speaking to him before it 
transferred the pension pot he held with it to his SIPP. He says he feels this caused an 
unnecessary delay. I appreciate his frustration but, as Mr K may be aware, it is not 
uncommon for consumers who are being scammed to be under pressure to arrange for fund 
transfers to happen quickly. Nor is it uncommon for scam victims to offer to sign a waiver or 
similar to expedite the transfer process. Having reviewed the email correspondence between Mr K and Standard Life I think it would have been very difficult for it to assess whether Mr K 
was being pressured by a third party to transfer his pension pot without speaking to him.
So although Mr K feels the due diligence call was not effective, I think that if Mr K was being 
pressured to transfer his pension pot, the call would have allowed Standard Life a further 
opportunity to identify this and if necessary it could have prevented Mr K falling victim to a 
scam.
I appreciate that there was a delay before Standard Life could offer Mr K a due diligence call. 
But I must also take into account that Mr Ks SIPP provider had delayed matters by querying 
why Standard Life had requested additional information. Mr Ks initial refusal to arrange a 
due diligence call also delayed matters. As this is the case, I dont think it would be fair to 
require Standard Life to compensate Mr K for any financial loss he may have suffered as a 
result of the delays in transferring his pension pot to his SIPP. I am also mindful that once 
the call had been carried out Mr Ks pension pot was promptly transferred to his SIPP 
provider.
In his most recent response Mr K said that he feels this service and the industry regulator 
should ensure that processes implemented by Organisations that are Regulated by them 
actually achieve protection of Consumers and Investors. This service does not have the 
power to order businesses to change their procedures. Our role is to determine complaints 
on their individual merits. If Mr K wishes to pursue his concern that the due diligence call that 
Standard Life has put in place, to reduce the risk of its customers falling victim to a pension 
scam is not effective, he may wish to contact the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority with his concerns.
Having considered this matter I dont think Standard Life acted incorrectly, or treated Mr K 
unfairly, when it insisted on a due diligence call, as part of its pension scam prevention 
checks, before it transferred his pension pot to a new provider.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman