DRN-4201805
The complaint
Mr R complains HSBC UK Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly when they approved two loans.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for these reasons:
Mr R has complained HSBC lent to him irresponsibly because they ought to have 
known he had a gambling problem when he applied for his loans. And, following our 
involvement, HSBC has agreed they shouldnt have approved Mr Rs loans and are 
prepared to take steps to put things right. Our investigator felt a fair resolution to this 
complaint would be removing all interest and charges from the loans, meaning Mr R 
would only have to repay the capital he borrowed. However, Mr R has asked for his 
outstanding balance to be written off. As such, my decision will focus on what 
I consider HSBC should do to put things right.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints on 
our website  including the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And this is what Ive considered when deciding Mr Rs complaint. Having done so, its 
important that I explain in cases like this, when we consider borrowing shouldnt have 
been approved, our usual approach is that the customer isnt made to repay any 
interest, charges and/or fees that may have been applied. However, we would still 
expect them to repay the capital they borrowed because they had use of the funds.
Mr R has been very open with us when explaining the impact the borrowing has had 
on him. So, I want to thank him for that, and assure him that I understand he has 
been through a very difficult time due to HSBCs mistake in approving his loans. 
Having said that, I must also place weight on the fact that the evidence provided 
shows he used the money he borrowed  albeit not in a way Mr R feels he benefited 
from. This evidence also shows the loan was used for more than solely gambling 
transactions  such as transfers to other accounts, for food, and payments towards 
other loans Mr R had.
While I sympathise with Mr Rs situation, I cannot safely conclude that writing off his 
outstanding balance is a fair and reasonable resolution to his complaint given he 
borrowed just over £10,000. I say this because while HSBC ought to have seen 
gambling transactions that amounted to relatively high values before Mr R applied for 
his loans, when he did receive the loan, some of the money was also used to 
supplement payments towards his outgoings.
As above, its clear Mr R has been through a very difficult time and HSBCs mistakes 
contributed to that. I agree he shouldnt have been given the loan, but we are an 
impartial Service and must be fair to both parties to a complaint. As Mr R used the 
funds in the ways described above, I do think its appropriate he repays what he 
borrowed. However, he shouldnt be responsible for repaying any interest and 
charges as he wouldnt be in his current situation (with this borrowing) if it wasnt for 
HSBCs mistake. As such, I consider what HSBC has already agreed to, is fair in the 
circumstances.
For the reasons above, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint about HSBC  albeit not as he 
hoped.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Rs complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
To put things right, HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans from the outset. Any 
payments made by Mr R should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If 
the payments Mr Rs made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then 
any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him with 8% simple 
annual interest* calculated on the overpayments made from the date they were paid 
by Mr R, to the date the complaint is settled.
If theres an outstanding balance on the loans, then HSBC UK Bank Plc should agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr R, bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions, and take account of his current 
ability to repay the loan.
Once the outstanding balance is repaid, any relevant adverse information (related to 
the lending) recorded on Mr Rs credit file should be removed. 
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC UK Bank Plc to take off any tax from this 
interest, HSBC UK Bank Plc should give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax theyve 
deducted if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman