DRN-1510787
The complaint
Mr D complains that Saga Services Limited failed to clarify why the premium for his motor 
insurance policy rose sharply given the amount of no claims discount (NCD) he had. 
What happened
In 2019, Mr Ds renewal premium was 58% higher than that for the previous year, despite his 
13 years NCD. Saga couldnt explain why it had risen. It said the insurer hadnt told it what 
the value of Mr Ds NCD was, or the percentage by which it had reduced the base premium. 
It said all the insurers on its panel rated NCD differently. Mr D told us he thought the wrong 
NCD was applied at renewal. He thought it was Sagas role to find out what had happened.
Having reviewed Mr Ds complaint, one of our investigators concluded that Saga had acted 
reasonably. He thought it would have been good customer service for it to have tried to get 
some clarification for Mr D from the insurer. But he didnt think it was obliged to do so. He 
suggested that Mr D should contact the insurer directly. The investigator noted Mr Ds view 
that as Saga was his agent, it should have acted in his best interests. He agreed with that, 
but he said it didnt mean Saga had to request the NCDs details from the insurer.
Mr D said Saga owed him a duty of loyalty - and that the responsibility to disclose 
information in insurance generally had been strengthened over the years. He said caselaw 
showed that brokers must review the terms of quotations offered to its clients and ensure 
those terms were explained. He said as Saga got a quote from a specific insurer, there was 
nothing to justify it not getting an explanation from that insurer. He said its failure to do that 
was a failure in its duty towards him, not a lack of good customer service. 
  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr D queried why his premium had risen by such a large amount. There 
hadnt been an incident in the previous year, and his 13-year NCD remained in place. 
Although Mr D thinks Saga didnt act in his best interests, I dont think he can show thats the 
case. Saga uses a panel of insurers and has confirmed that the premium quoted at renewal 
for Mr D was the lowest one returned by an insurer on its panel. I dont think its part of 
Sagas role to query exactly how an insurer arrived at a premium. And much of the data 
insurers use in doing so is commercially sensitive anyway, so it wouldnt be shared. 
I think Saga was obliged to ensure that Mr D was offered the best value policy from an 
insurer on its panel that was suitable for his needs. Theres nothing to show it didnt do so.
Many insurers apply a maximum of 70% discount on a base premium, although some offer 
75% or even 80%. The insurer didnt provide Saga with details of the discount it had applied 
to Mr Ds premium. But recently Saga asked the insurer if it would share that information. 
The insurer confirmed that the discount applied to Mr Ds base premium was 70%. But only 
the insurer knows what other factors led to the high premium it quoted.
I think it would have been better service on Sagas part to have queried the NCD percentage 
when Mr D first raised the issue, but I dont think it was obliged to do that. And I think Mr D 
would still have been left wondering why the premium rose so steeply. The discount applied 
doesnt explain that, and Saga couldnt have assisted him with a further explanation. 
As I dont think Saga acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman