DRN-3518039
Complaint
Miss M has complained that Avant Credit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) unfairly reported that 
she was in arrears and that shed defaulted on a loan to credit reference agencies.
Background
In August 2021, Miss M noticed that Avant Credit had reported her loan as having arrears 
and having been in default since May 2020. Miss M complained to Avant Credit. Avant 
Credit accepted that it incorrectly reported the status of Miss Ms loans to credit reference 
agencies. And it offered £100 for any distress and inconvenience that its error caused.
Miss M remained dissatisfied and referred her complaint to our service. Miss Ms complaint 
was then considered by one of our investigators. He thought that what Avant Credit had 
already done to put things right for Miss M was fair and reasonable. Miss M disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider her case. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
It isnt in dispute that Avant Credit incorrectly reported the status of Miss Ms loan to credit 
reference agencies. And I do accept that Miss M did experience an amount of frustration and 
annoyance as a result of Avant Credits actions. I also understand how and why learning that 
such information had been recorded in the way it was would have been upsetting and that 
the impact on Miss M was more than just minimal. However, I do think that matters were put 
right relatively quickly once Miss M brought this matter to Avant Credits attention. 
Miss M has said that the information Avant Credit recorded prevented her from being able to 
obtain a mortgage and other credit. Our investigator told Miss M that wed be prepared to 
consider this matter further if she provided evidence of this. But Miss M hasnt been able to 
demonstrate that the information Avant Credit recorded directly led to her being refused a 
mortgage or any other credit. And given what Miss M has previously said about her Avant 
Credit loan being unaffordable because of her poor credit history, its difficult for me to 
reasonably conclude the information Avant Credit recorded had the effect Miss M says it did 
without anything to support this. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that £100 is an adequate amount of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr W experienced here  although I do appreciate Mr W doesnt 
agree that this is the case.
So overall and having considered everything and while I do sympathise with Miss Ms 
position and what happened, I think that what Avant Credit has already done to put things 
right is fair and reasonable. And Ive not been persuaded to uphold Miss Ms complaint. I 
appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss M. But I hope that shell understand 
the reasons for my decision and at least feel that her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman