DRN-3285727
The complaint
Ms J complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc removed her preferential interest rate and 
charged her interest when they shouldnt have and recorded late payments when they 
shouldnt have which affected her credit rating. 
 
What happened
Ms J had a credit card with Tesco which was on a 0% interest rate. 
Following a late payment in July 2019, the 0% interest rate was revoked, but Ms J rang up 
and explained the oversight, and Tesco agreed to reinstate the 0% rate.  
However, Tesco continued to charge interest, and Ms J made phone calls each month to 
explain. She made a complaint which was upheld, and she received £75 compensation in 
November 2020. 
Despite this, Tesco continued to charge interest, and in May 2021 Ms J asked for the 
complaint to be reopened as it was affecting her credit rating. The complaint was upheld 
again and she received a further £200 compensation and Tesco agreed to remove all 
negative credit markers from her credit file.
 
However, Ms J was still unhappy with this outcome as her credit rating was negatively 
impacted and was preventing her from being able to get a good mortgage deal, and so she 
brought her complaint to us.  
Our investigator upheld Ms Js complaint and awarded a further £150, totalling £425 
compensation. Tesco agreed to this, but Ms J has asked for an Ombudsmans decision and 
so this has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts in this case arent in dispute. Tesco accept that they have made an error which 
has impacted Ms J and have agreed to pay a total of £425 for distress and inconvenience. 
Ms J initially made a late payment in July 2019 but following contacting Tesco to explain and 
clear the arrears, Tesco agreed to reinstate the 0% interest rate, refund the late fee and 
interest, and set up a direct debit for the minimum payment. Unfortunately, the direct debit 
wasnt set up and Ms J had a further missed payment in August 2019.   
Ms J rang Tesco in August, made a manual payment, and was refunded the late fee and 
interest and told the 0% rate would be reinstated. 
In September Ms J rang again after interest was applied to the account and expressed 
concern about adverse credit reporting. The agent confirmed that the 0% rate would be 
reinstated, the late payment fee refunded, and no adverse credit information would be 
reported. 
However, this carried on until November when Ms J made a formal complaint. It was upheld 
and she received £75 compensation. But the issue was still not resolved, and over the next 
few months, Ms J received further letters advising her that the 0% rate had been removed 
and her credit limit reduced. She contacted Tesco several times to raise these concerns and 
also to raise concerns about adverse credit reporting.  
In May 2021 Ms J raised a further formal complaint to include the issue of the adverse credit 
reporting. 
Ive seen the case notes, which show that in following this complaint in May 2020 the 
complaint handler asked the credit reference team to make contact with the credit reference 
agencies to remove any adverse information. They did this and thought it had been done, 
but unfortunately, they later discovered that the request had failed to upload. They were of 
the impression that the late payment markers had been removed for November 2019 and 
March 2020. The complaint handler also reinstated the 0% rate and offered a further £200 to 
compensate for the further errors, the time taken, and the impact on the credit file. All 
interest incorrectly charged was also removed.  
In July Ms J noted that her credit report was still not corrected and contacted the credit 
reference agency herself and they added a note of correction. In August 2020 Ms J 
contacted us as she was still unhappy that the records had not been updated. 
Tescos notes show that in November they contacted the credit reference agency who 
confirmed that they didnt receive the amendment request sent in May. Tesco sent it again 
as an urgent request and the late payment markers were removed on 27 November 2020.  
So far Ms J has been paid £275 in respect of this distress and inconvenience and the 
investigator recommended a further £150, bringing it to £425. 
I have thought about whether this is a fair amount to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused, in the light of the above. 
I can understand how frustrating this whole episode has been for Ms J. The repeated failures 
by Tesco to follow up on the promises they made in relation to the 0% interest rate has 
caused inconvenience and distress, which was exacerbated by the impact on her credit file, 
which Ms J says affected her ability to get a mortgage in early 2020. 
So I have taken into account that this was a monthly occurring problem over a period of 11 
months, between July 2019 and May 2020, requiring repeated phone calls, and that despite 
it being dealt with by the complaints team twice, it wasnt fully resolved until six months later 
in November 2020. However, Im satisfied that Tesco had sent the right information to the 
credit reference agencies, but they hadnt received it. And so, I dont think the error lay with 
Tesco after May 2020.  
I do think that Tesco missed opportunities to explain to Ms J why the credit file hadnt been 
updated when they found out that the credit file had failed to upload, but ultimately I dont 
think that was Tescos fault.  
In view of this and taking into account our approach to awards for distress and 
inconvenience, I think that £425 is a fair overall award in these circumstances. Putting things right
In view of the reasoning I have given above, I agree with the investigators recommendation 
that Tesco should pay Ms J an additional £150, bringing her total award to £425. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I am upholding Ms Js complaint and directing Tesco Personal Finance to 
put things right as I have detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman