DRN-4492135
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that their mortgage with Mortgages plc was mis-sold because its on 
an interest-only basis and they have no means of repaying it at the end of the term. They 
also complain that Mortgages plc has failed to support them when theyve asked for help 
with their rising mortgage payments and that it hasnt offered them a lower fixed interest rate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out this mortgage in 2006, on the recommendation of a broker. They 
borrowed just under £160,000 over a term of 25 years, on an interest-only basis. The 
interest rate was fixed at 6.2% for the first two years; it then changed to a variable rate of 
Bank of England base rate plus 3% for the remainder of the term.
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs M complained to Mortgages plc about the sale of the 
mortgage. They said they werent offered any options other than interest-only when they 
took the mortgage out in 2006, and this wasnt right for them because they have no way to 
pay the mortgage back at the end of the term. 
Mortgages plc sent Mr and Mrs M a final response letter in January 2020. It said it hadnt 
given them advice about the suitability of the mortgage, and referred the complaint to the 
broker who had advised them. 
In April 2020, Mr and Mrs M referred the complaint about the mortgage sale to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. They told us that they wanted to complain about both the lender and 
the broker. Our Investigator dealt with the complaint against the broker rather than the 
lender, since Mr and Mrs M were complaining about the advice they had received to take the 
mortgage. The Investigator concluded that Mr and Mrs M had complained too late and so we 
couldnt investigate, because the mortgage was sold in 2006 but they hadnt complained 
until 2020.
In February 2023, Mr and Mrs M complained again to Mortgages plc. They said they were 
struggling with their mortgage payments since the interest rate on the mortgage had risen, 
and asked for the interest rate to be reduced. They were unhappy that Mortgages plc always 
told them there were no new interest rate products available, their monthly payments kept 
going up and Mortgages plc wouldnt reduce the payments when they ask. They said they 
shouldnt be in this position with an interest-only mortgage which they cant repay at term 
end in 2031, Mortgages plc should never have agreed the mortgage on an interest-only 
basis, and they should be compensated.
Mortgages plc sent Mr and Mrs M its final response in March 2023. It said its a closed book 
lender and so doesnt offer any new interest rate products to customers, and the interest rate 
on Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage had tracked Bank of England base rate (BOEBR) plus a 
margin as agreed. It said it hadnt done anything wrong, and it could look at what support it 
could provide if Mr and Mrs M contacted its Collections department. 
In June 2023, Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to us. They were very worried and 
unhappy about their rising mortgage payments and the ultimate repayment of the mortgage, 
and said this was having a significant impact on their health and wellbeing. They also still 
wanted to complain about having been sold an interest-only mortgage. 
Our Investigator said we couldnt look into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the sale of the 
mortgage for various reasons, including because they had left it too late to complain and 
because they had referred a complaint to us about the sale before. The Investigator said we 
could look into the complaint about Mortgages plcs responses to Mr and Mrs Ms requests 
for a new interest rate product and support with their payments. She didnt think that part of 
the complaint should succeed. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept that and asked for a review. They wanted the mis-sale of the 
mortgage to be revisited. They also made a fresh complaint to Mortgages plc about the way 
it had treated them more recently. Mortgages plc sent them its final response about that in 
October 2023, and we are now dealing with it as a separate complaint.
The complaint Mr and Mrs M made in February 2023 was referred to me, and I issued a 
decision setting out the scope of the Financial Ombudsman Services power to consider it. I 
said that Mr and Mrs M had complained too late about the sale of the mortgage, under the 
six- and three-year time limits I must apply, and this meant that I cant consider their 
complaint about the sale.
I said that I can, however, consider Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about how Mortgages plc 
treated them between February 2017 and February 2023. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I note that Mr and Mrs M have complained about Mortgages plcs treatment of 
them since February 2023, after they discussed concessionary payment arrangements with 
it and their direct debit was cancelled. That complaint is being dealt with separately. The 
complaint Im deciding here is about how Mortgages plc has treated Mr and Mrs M between 
February 2017 and February 2023, and in particular Mortgages plcs responses to Mr and 
Mrs Ms requests for a lower interest rate and help with their monthly mortgage payments. 
Since the initial fixed interest rate ended in 2008, the rate on Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage has 
been a variable rate of BOEBR plus 3%  as set out in the mortgage agreement. This has 
meant that, as BOEBR has risen over the last two years, so have Mr and Mrs Ms monthly 
mortgage payments. They have seen their payments more than double, from just over £400 
a month to more than £1,000.
Mr and Mrs M have found the payments difficult to maintain, so they have asked Mortgages 
plc for help, including for payment holidays, lower payments, and a lower interest rate. They 
complain that their lender has failed to help them, and has always just said that it has 
nothing available.
Mortgages plc has said to Mr and Mrs M that it is a closed book lender, which means that it 
doesnt offer any new mortgage interest rate products. It has however told them that they 
may be able to get a better deal with another lender, and directed them to sources of free 
and independent advice. 
I dont think that Mortgages plc did anything wrong in not offering Mr and Mrs M a new 
interest rate. There was nothing to say that it had to do so, either in the mortgage offer and terms and conditions, or in law or the rules of mortgage regulation. While many mortgage 
lenders do offer new rates, not all do.
Mortgages plc didnt have new rates available to any other existing customers either, so in 
not offering Mr and Mrs M a rate it treated them the same as its other customers. No early 
repayment charges applied to the mortgage after the fixed rate ended in 2008, so Mortgages 
plc didnt stop Mr and Mrs M from applying for better rates with other lenders.
I also dont think I can fairly conclude that Mortgages plc failed to offer Mr and Mrs M 
appropriate support during the period of time I can consider. Mr and Mrs M were up-to-date 
with their payments and their mortgage was already on an interest-only payment basis when 
they asked Mortgages plc for help.
Mortgages plc told them it could look into concessionary payment arrangements in the first 
instance, but the resulting shortfall in their payments would need to be made up later. It also 
told them it would want to understand their financial situation first, and explained how 
reduced payments could affect their credit files. I dont consider any of this unreasonable, 
and its in line with what Id expect a lender to do in these sorts of circumstances. 
I recognise that Mr and Mrs M have had had a very difficult time over the years and have 
been finding the increased mortgage payments hard to maintain. I encourage them to keep 
in touch with Mortgages plc about their situation so that it can consider what options might 
be available to help them. That doesnt mean, though, that it must offer them a lower fixed 
interest rate simply because thats what Mr and Mrs M would prefer. There are a range of 
options and what is appropriate will depend on Mr and Mrs Ms particular circumstances. 
I can also see that Mr and Mrs M are very worried about what will happen when their 
mortgage reaches the end of its term, if theyre unable to repay it in full. They have said 
theyve been upset by what they consider to be threatening letters from Mortgages plc, 
reminding them about term end and alternative options they could think about. 
While Mr and Mrs M find it upsetting to be reminded of the need to repay the mortgage at the 
end of the term, its good practice and in line with regulatory guidance for their lender to send 
reminders and set out options. The sooner a borrower is able to make plans for repayment 
of a mortgage, the better. I dont find that Mortgages plc has done anything wrong in writing 
to Mr and Mrs M about the end of their mortgage term.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman