DRN-2956226
The complaint
Ms G complains about the way that AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with her home insurance 
claim for flood damage to her home and contents. 
What happened
Ms G made a claim to AXA in October 2019 following her home being flooded after a nearby 
brook burst its banks.  AXA appointed loss adjusters to deal with the claim, which included 
the removal and listing of a great number of flood damaged contents. In February 2020 
Ms G suffered another flood at the property for which she had to make another claim. The 
two claims were dealt with together after that. Ms G made complaints to AXA in May 2020 
about the slow progress of the claim, coupled with the fact that she hadnt received any 
interim payments. 
Ms G also raised the question of missing data from her electronic devices which had been 
removed in the course of the contents being cleared out. She said there were a number of 
certificates and course materials which were now missing. She said she wanted to be paid 
the cost of obtaining copies. For the course where the provider had gone into liquidation, she 
claimed the cost of redoing that course. She no longer had any physical certificates. She 
further contended that AXA had breached data protection rules as a lot of the information 
lost was private to her. AXA said its contractors denied having removed the electronic 
devices, so although it had paid the cost of the devices,  it was unable to offer anything 
towards the costs Ms G claimed.
Ms G also raised an issue with contents in the garden. She said these were removed by 
AXAs contractors because they were deemed to be beyond economic repair (BER). But she 
subsequently discovered these items werent covered under her policy. She has received a 
payment for four of the items, which AXA says was made in error, not appreciating that they 
were items in the garden. She contends that the remaining items were worth over £3,000, 
and that they werent BER, she could have restored the items herself, given the opportunity. 
She claims the replacement cost of those items.
AXA has now said that, apart from the four items paid for, none of the items in Ms Gs list 
appear on the lists of BER items drawn up by its contractors, so it would appear that the 
items were not taken by them.
Ms G has raised other issues, relating to both claims. As these are still ongoing issues they 
will be considered separately at the appropriate time.
On review by our investigator, she said that on balance it was likely that AXA did remove the 
electronic devices. She thought however that it wasnt possible to evidence what was on the 
devices, so couldnt award anything for financial loss. However she said that AXA should 
pay £650 compensation for the distress and inconvenience cause to Ms G.
In respect of the items in the garden, again our investigator thought it likely that these had 
been removed by AXA. She hadnt seen any reports where they were deemed to be BER, 
but thought it likely that at least some of the items were. She proposed that AXA pay a 
settlement of half the value of the items.
AXA agreed to the proposed compensation, but didnt agree that it should pay any of the 
cost of the garden items. It initially pointed out that it had been accepted by our investigator 
that its contractors are expert in assessing whether items can be restored or are BER, and 
that the items were not salvageable. It has subsequently said the items werent removed by 
its contractors.
Ms G didnt agree to the proposed settlement, she required full payment for the garden items 
and for AXA to cover her full cost of obtaining copies of her certificates etc. She pointed out 
that she had offered to provide statements from colleagues etc about what data was 
contained in the electronic devices.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision
In this decision I shall only be considering the issues set out below, relating to the October 
2019 claim and up until the final response letter of 8 July 2020. As Ive said, the remaining 
issues will be looked at at the appropriate time.
delays
There were delays in dealing with Ms Gs claim. And there were concerns about possible 
underinsurance of the contents which the loss adjusters were slow to investigate. There was 
also a delay at the start of the claim and further delays in returning some items. But I take 
into account that this was a claim where there was extensive damage. And that while this 
decision is concerned with the first claim, inevitably a further claim happening while the first 
claim is being dealt with, will complicate matters. I also bear in mind that the March 2020 
national lockdown occurred in the course of the claim. Taking those matters into account, I 
note that AXA has paid Ms G £500 in respect of the delays it was responsible for. I think 
thats a fair and reasonable payment for the period in question.
electronic devices
AXA says its contractors didnt take these items, as they wont remove electronic items with 
stored data because of data protection. Ms G is adamant that they did. And whilst I note 
what AXA says, the evidence from the documents is that the items clearly appear on the 
BER lists. Both parties signed the lists and there is no indication on those lists or any other 
document that Ms G retained the items. The contractors advised AXA that whilst they 
wouldnt normally dispose of such items they cant be sure of exactly what happened to 
them, and cant rule out having disposed of them. I think its likely the electronic devices 
were disposed of without any attempt to extract the data.
Ms G says important data was on those devices including certificates for various courses 
and coursework. I note she hasnt got the physical documents any more and presumably her 
data wasnt backed up. Ms G has offered to produce witness statements but they wouldnt 
be first hand evidence of what was actually on the various devices. So I dont think Ms G is 
able to evidence exactly what was on those devices. Further, it isnt necessarily likely that all or any of the data could have been recovered.
I think its likely that there were personal files on the devices, including photos. I think the 
appropriate remedy in this case is for Ms G to be awarded compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience. And think the proposed ward of £650 is appropriate.
Ms G alleges there was a breach of data protection rules by AXA. If the items were 
destroyed, I cant see that any personal information has been put at risk. We dont make 
rulings under the Data Protection Act and I would suggest that if Ms G has a concern about it 
she reports it to the Information Commissioner. 
garden items
Ms G says that AXA disposed of a number of her garden items, saying they were BER. She 
only later found out that the items werent covered under her policy. She was told they were 
BER but contends that she would have been able to restore the items.
AXA has been inconsistent in its reply to this. Firstly, in its final response letter of July 2020, 
it said that its contractors had deemed the items to be BER, so they were disposed of. In 
response to our investigator, it commented that the items had been considered by a 
professional restoration company. However it has now said the items werent taken at all 
(and therefore presumably not deemed BER), as they dont appear on the BER lists (save 
for four items which were paid).
I can understand that Ms G only raised these items later if she had thought they would be 
paid, until she realised there was no cover for them. By all accounts there were a lot of items 
being taken and disposed of quite quickly. In their email exchanges the contractors said 
Items would have been removed and disposed of each day into a skip/tech van. We did not 
seek auth to dispose and completed a list and skip, where we dispose as we go. The garden 
items were disposed of on 11/12, the first day of the list and skipping.
Whilst AXA says the items were left as they were not in the lists, as the contractors at first 
said they didnt take electronic items, its possible, in the confusion of removal of items and 
as they were taken first that the itemising missed the garden items. Certainly I can see no 
reason for Ms G to say they were taken if they were not, whilst listing those that remained 
and those that were paid for.
I think AXA should pay for the garden items. But as it appears likely to me that some of the 
items were BER and would have had to be disposed of, and some only had salvage value, I 
think it fair that AXA pay a settlement of one half of the value of the items. Ms G has 
produced a list setting out the total value of £3,140. AXA has had the list since May 2020 so 
has had plenty of time to consider the values. The list includes items paid for, but Ms G 
doesnt claim any cost for those. AXA has recently produced to us further copies of lists of 
BER items, but its unclear, apart from a chiminea (which Ms G has marked as paid for), that 
AXA has paid for any of the other items on Ms Gs list. So AXA should pay a settlement of 
£1,570. If it can show that it has paid for any of the other items on Ms Gs list, it may deduct 
those from the settlement. In light of the fact that this is a compensatory award for items that 
in the normal course of events wouldnt fall to be paid for, and Ms G hasnt paid out to 
replace the items yet, I wont make an award of interest. 
Putting things right
Subject to what Ive said above, AXA should pay to Ms G £1,570 in settlement of the agreed 
items, and £650 compensation.  My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman