DRN-2672904
The complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of his company that I will refer to as G, about how AXA Insurance 
UK Plc settled his insurance claim.
 
What happened
Mr M is a director of G  a property management company. G owns a number of buildings, 
for which it has insurance with AXA.
In 2019 Mr M made a claim on Gs insurance, as he noticed damage to the external steps of 
one of the buildings covered by the insurance. AXA accepted the claim and concluded the 
damage was due to an escape of water. 
Once the leak was fixed, AXAs contractor put together a scope of works for the repairs to 
the stairs. It said it would cash settle for the amount its contractor had quoted.
Mr M wasnt happy with this, he had contacted his own contractors to get quotes. These 
were significantly higher than AXAs quote and he said the claim should be settled on the 
basis of the lower of his two quotes. Further he said the insurance policy included cover for 
trace and access but AXA had refused to look into possible damage to a pipe under the 
entrance hallway of the building. He made a complaint to AXA.
AXA responded to Mr Ms complaint. It said that the quotes provided by Mr M included costs 
for the removal and replacement of the portico that stood around the entrance. It said that its 
own quote just included supporting the portico while work is carried out, as it wouldnt be 
known if it requires removal until the work starts. It said if extra work is required on the 
portico then it would consider quotes for the this, but wouldnt include speculative costs in its 
cash settlement.
In regards to the trace and access it said the cause of the damage had been previously 
identified and there was no evidence to suggest the pipe under the hallway had contributed 
to the damage. So it said this would be preventative work that wouldnt be covered under the 
policy. 
Mr M didnt think this was fair and brought the complaint to this service. 
After the complaint came to us, our investigator spoke to AXA and it agreed to offer Mr M the 
option of having its contractor complete the work, rather than a cash settlement. Our 
investigator thought this was a fair offer. He also agreed with AXA that the cost of 
investigating the pipe below the entrance hall wouldnt be covered by the policy.
Mr M didnt agree with this outcome. He said he would be happy for AXA to complete the 
works but only if it followed the scope of works provided by his own contractor. As he didnt 
agree, the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has raised two points that he remains unhappy about. I have addressed each in turn 
below.
Cash settlement
Mr M has said he is unhappy with the cash settlement offered by AXA as it is significantly 
less than quotes he has obtained himself. 
AXA and Mr M are in agreement that the main difference between the quotes is the work 
required around the portico. AXAs quote only provides for supporting it, whereas Mr Ms 
quotes includes the cost of removing and replacing it.
AXA has explained that until work begins, it isnt possible to know exactly how affected the 
portico will be. So it could be possible to fix the steps without the need to remove the portico 
at all. It said it wouldnt provide a cash settlement for work that may need to be done, just for 
what repairs are required. 
I have considered this and I think AXA has acted fairly. When a cash settlement is offered, it 
is usual that this will cover the work that is required in order to repair the damage. However 
when work begins, further costs will sometimes become evident. It isnt possible, or feasible, 
for an insurer to include all possible extra work in the quote for a cash settlement amount. As 
although there are many costs that are possible, it is also possible they wont arise. 
AXA has said that if, once work has begun, the portico does need extra work then it will look 
at quotes for this work then. And I think this is fair, as it means if extra costs do arise it will 
re-consider the amount it paid.
Further it has now offered the option of having its own contractors complete the work, based 
on their scope of works. As Mr M now has the option to accept the cash settlement and use 
his own contractors, or let AXAs contractors complete the work, Im satisfied that he has 
been offered a fair settlement. So I wont ask AXA to do anything further in this regard.
Trace and access
Mr M has also said that he thinks AXA should cover the cost of investigative work on a pipe 
that runs under the internal hallway of the building. He says this should fall under the trace 
and access cover in the policy. 
The relevant section of the policy states as follows:
27) Trace and Access
Where the BUILDINGS have suffered DAMAGE or in the opinion of a competent 
professional there is a reasonable possibility of DAMAGE resulting from the escape of gas 
oil water or sewage into the PREMISES the Insurer(s) will pay
i) the costs necessarily and reasonably incurred in
a) locating the source whether on the PREMISES or not
b) repairing and making good any DAMAGE including that caused in locating the source of 
the escape of gas oil water or sewage
ii) the cost of repairing or replacing tanks apparatus pipes or appliances which may have 
been damaged by freezingAXA has said that the leak that caused the damage to the entrance steps was capped off 
and re-routed when the damage was first located. It says that this pipe was located under 
the steps, whereas the water pipe Mr M has asked to be looked at is under the main hallway. 
It says there has been no damage caused in that area so this wouldnt fall under the trace 
and access cover. 
Having considered the policy term above, I agree AXA has acted fairly by saying it this isnt 
something that would be covered by the trace and access part of the policy. This covers 
repairs where there is an identified leak that has caused damaged or is likely to do so. In this 
case, there is no leak identified from that part of the pipe, and no damage has been caused 
to that part of the building. The leak that caused the damage has already been addressed. 
So I think AXA has acted fairly by declining this part of Gs claim. 
For these reasons I think AXA has acted fairly and reasonably when handling and settling 
Gs claim. I therefore wont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G and G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman