DRN-3292337
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Crosfill & Archer Claims Limited (CACL) didnt make a claim for mis-
sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) before the deadline for doing so.
What happened
On 28 August 2019, the day before the final deadline for making new PPI claims, Mr P said 
he instructed CACL to make claims for potentially mis-sold PPI against three credit card 
providers and a mortgage lender. The following day Mr P chased CACL for confirmation that 
his claims were submitted and, on 4 September 2019, CACL emailed him to say that all 
received claims were submitted ahead of the deadline. This email also said that claims were 
likely to be delayed because of the deadline.
Mr P chased CACL for an outcome on his claims in September 2020. But CACL couldnt 
trace his claims on their system. He complained to CACL about this, but they didnt respond 
to the complaint. So, Mr P brought this matter to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a 
Financial Ombudsman Service) for investigation.
Our investigator said CACL had acknowledged Mr Ps claims in September 2019, but she 
hadnt seen anything to show that CACL had submitted the claims or chased them with the 
PPI providers. Because of this, she thought that Mr P had lost out on the opportunity to have 
his claims assessed.
The investigator said that she couldnt assess whether Mr P had been sold PPI and, if he 
had, whether the PPI was mis-sold. So, she couldnt recommend that CACL pay Mr P what 
he thought his claims were worth. But she did think that CACL should pay him £200 per 
claim  a total of £800  for the distress and inconvenience of never knowing whether his 
claims wouldve been successful or not.
Mr P didnt agree with the recommendation. He said it was a clear case of negligence and 
misconduct, my position has been grossly prejudiced as a result and the correct procedure 
should be to assess the loss at its full potential and not some token, nominal and derisory 
award.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 January 2022, where I explained my intention to uphold 
the complaint. In that decision I said:
Before I address Mr Ps complaint, I feel it would be beneficial to explain the scope of my 
decision. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an independent dispute resolution service 
acting as an alternative to the courts. Were able to consider the service provided by a 
financial business. But were not able to make a finding of negligence  this is a legal matter 
and something that can only be decided by the courts. 
Were also not able to assess any potential PPI claims and make a finding as to whether PPI 
was mis-sold or not. This is something that financial businesses were able to do, where 
claims were submitted to them before the August 2019 deadline. Given the above, I will only 
be considering the service provided by CACL. And I wont be looking at whether Mr Ps 
claims were valid, or whether CACL have acted negligently.
Ive seen a copy of the email Mr P sent to CACL at 14:59 on 29 August 2019  the afternoon 
of the PPI claim deadline. This says, I sent the endorsed instruction pack back to you 
yesterday. Mr P went on to explain that hed tried to call CACL to confirm receipt and asked 
them to let him know they had his claims. He also said that if they couldnt let him know I will 
need to take action myself (given the deadline). CACL didnt respond to this email the same 
day, and Mr P took no further action to ensure his claims had been submitted.
CACL replied to Mr P on 4 September 2019, and they said, all received Letters Of Authority 
were indeed submitted to the lenders in advance of the deadline. By using the wording all 
received Letters of Authority, Im satisfied this was a standard response to an email, and 
wasnt specific to Mr P. If the email had been specific to Mr P, Id expect CACL to confirm 
that (a) Mr Ps Letters of Authority for claims against specifically referenced PPI providers 
had been received, and (b) these had been submitted to the PPI providers on a specified 
date. 
This email also said that Mr P may experience delays in the process, and because Mr P 
says CACLs website indicated these delays may be up to 12-months, he didnt chase CACL 
again until September 2020. And its not disputed that CACL couldnt trace him on their 
system. Ive also seen that CACL asked Mr P to provide the reference number that wouldve 
been on any confirmation of claim submission they sent him; something that Mr P wasnt 
able to do.
Based upon this evidence, while I dont doubt that Mr P tried to submit the necessary 
paperwork to CACL to allow them to make claims on his behalf, Im satisfied that CACL 
never received them - the email of 4 September 2019 was a standard response and didnt 
contain the reference number CACL wouldve provided had the paperwork been received.
However, I appreciate that Mr P wouldnt have known this was the case from the email he 
received on 4 September 2019. And, because hed left things until the deadline before 
making PPI claims was about to expire, hed left himself no time to take any further action if 
things went wrong  which in this case they did.
Given the above, Im satisfied that CACL couldve done better. Their email of 4 September 
2019 was misleading and gave Mr P the impression his claims had been submitted. Which 
wasnt the case. And I think they should compensate him for the confusion this caused.
The investigator recommended that CACL pay Mr P £200 for each of the four claims, as Mr 
P will be unaware whether they would ever be successful or not. And Mr P believes that 
CACL should pay him the full value of his claims due to their negligence and misconduct.
However, for the reasons stated above, Im satisfied CACL never received the claims Mr P 
says he sent to them. The email they sent on 4 September 2020 was misleading, and they 
shouldve given Mr P an answer specific to his circumstances instead. But, had they done 
so, they wouldve told Mr P that they hadnt received his claims, and therefore couldnt 
submit them to the PPI providers. And this wouldnt have changed the situation - Mr Ps 
claims werent received by CACL so werent submitted; and because Mr P left it until the 
deadline to make the claims, he was out of time to make the claims directly or through 
another claims management company.I appreciate that the misleading email has caused Mr P some distress, but it hasnt and 
didnt change the circumstances of his claims. So, I wont be holding CACL responsible for 
the claims not being submitted. But I think they should pay Mr P £100 for the impact of the 
misleading email of 4 September 2020.
Responses
Mr P didnt agree with my provisional decision. He thought it was biased towards CACL and 
that it was based on speculation and hypothesis. He said that, if CACL didnt receive his 
claims then they should not have told me, in open correspondence, that they had and 
provided me with assurance that the claims had been processed and submitted accordingly. 
He says that, because this letter was signed by an individual case handler, this shows that 
his claims had been allocated, and therefore received.
Mr P reiterated his view that CACL had misled him, which deprived him of any opportunity to 
pursue his claims by an alternative route. And he said CACL had suggested to him that 
financial institutions were being lenient regarding the deadline. Which implied that hed still 
be able to make a claim in September 2019. And he thought that, because CACL had been 
negligent when dealing with his claims, then potential financial loss could be demonstrated.
CACL chose not to make any comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has questioned how I reached my provisional decision, especially as CACL didnt 
engage in the investigative process. As I explained, were an informal dispute resolution 
service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This means were impartial and look at both 
sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides story because of who they are. 
We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given. And, where there is a lack of 
evidence, my decision is based on what I consider to be most likely to have happened.
Its clear from Mr Ps comments that the crux of this issue is the email from CACL dated 4 
September 2019.  For clarity, the contents of this email, in full, are:
I'm very sorry for the long delay in getting back to you regarding your response. I'm 
pleased to confirm that all received Letters Of Authority were indeed submitted to the 
lenders in advance of the deadline. As you can imagine, you may experience delays 
in the process due to the very large influx around deadline date across all lenders. Of 
course, as soon as we have any news we'll be in touch!
In the meantime if you have any further questions just let me know and I'll do my best 
to help!
Mr P believes that this email shows CACL had received his claims and provided assurance 
these had been processed and submitted. And, because this email was from a named 
person, this shows that hed been allocated a case handler.
However, for the same reasons as detailed in my provisional decision, I disagree. Had Mr 
Ps claims been allocated to a case handler, Id have expected the email to (a) have come 
from the case handlers email address, not a generic CACL email address, (b) to have 
contained some contact details for the case handler, or at least a full name and not just a forename, and (c) to have made some reference to Mr Ps specific claims, and/or provided a 
claim reference number.
Because this email didnt contain any of the above, and by including the statement all 
received Letters Of Authority were indeed submitted , Im satisfied this was a generic 
response to Mr Ps email, one that wouldve been sent to a number of customers chasing for 
confirmation of submission shortly after the deadline for making PPI claims.
This doesnt detract from the fact that, because of how the email was worded, it gave Mr P 
false assurances. But, because Mr P wasnt supplied with any of the information Id have 
expected him to have been supplied with on making a claim, Im satisfied that its more likely 
than not that CACL didnt receive the claims Mr P sent them. 
Mr P has also commented that, had CACL made him aware of this in September 2019, he 
wouldve had alternative options as financial institutions were being lenient. But Im not 
aware that they were. And had Mr P submitted a claim after the deadline himself, this would 
most likely have been rejected by the PPI provider. So, even if CACL had told him on 4 
September 2019 that they hadnt received his claims, Mr P would find himself in the same 
situation as he does now.
So, for these reasons, Mr Ps comments dont change my view.
Putting things right
I remain satisfied that the email of CACL was misleading and, although it wouldnt have 
changed the situation, it did cause Mr P some distress. So, CACL should pay Mr P £100 for 
the impact of this email.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ps complaint. that Crosfill & Archer Claims 
Limited should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman