DRN-2115651
The complaint
Miss H complains that MYJAR Limited (trading as Myjar) was irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Miss H had four loans between November 2017 and July 2018 as follows:
Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
5 Nov 2017 £1,000 6m £284.63 12 Apr 2018 22 Nov 2017
5 Dec 2017 £1,475 12m £226.20 22 Nov 2018 6 Feb 2018
16 Mar 2018 £800 12m £117.87 19 Feb 2019 18 Jul 2018
23 Jul 2018 £725 12m £110.82 9 Jul 2019 Payment Arrangement
Miss H says that Myjar did not do appropriate checks and it should have seen the loans 
were unaffordable. Miss H says she had numerous other financial commitments at the time, 
including other short-term loans, and adds that the stress has caused her to have sleepless 
nights.
Myjar says it asked Miss H for information about her income and outgoings and checked her 
credit file and other data sources. It says it found the loans were appropriate for her but 
could see that a pattern of borrowing may have occurred by loan 4. It offered to uphold her 
complaint about loan 4, waive all interest and charges on the loan and remove any 
associated adverse information from her credit file. Myjar also offered to set up an affordable 
repayment plan for the balance.
Miss H did not accept this offer.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said there was 
nothing in the available information that should have indicated the loans were unaffordable 
to Miss H. She confirmed that Myjars offer on loan 4 was still available.
Miss H responded to say, in summary, that she had ten defaults and three County Court 
Judgements (CCJs) on her credit file at the time she applied for her first loan with Myjar. She 
says there were few gaps in her borrowing as she used her salary to clear a previous loan 
and then needed to borrow again. Miss H says she feels that all interest and charges should 
be refunded, thereby more than offsetting her outstanding balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Myjar was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure Miss H 
could afford to repay the loans before it lent to her. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Miss H was borrowing, and her lending history. 
But there was no set list of checks Myjar had to do.
Loan 1
Im satisfied Myjar carried out proportionate checks for this loan. I say that because this was 
her first loan application and the repayments were a relatively small proportion of her 
declared income. I cant see there was anything in the available information to suggest that 
the repayments were unaffordable to Miss H.
Loans 2 and 3
When Miss H applied for her second and third loans, the loan term increased to 12 months, 
alongside an increased loan amount. Because of this, and the limited gaps between 
borrowing, I dont think Myjars checks went far enough. At this stage Id have expected 
Myjar to carry out a full financial review before approving further loans.
I acknowledge Miss H says she had multiple defaults and county court judgements, so Ive 
looked at her credit file to see what information Myjar would have found had it carried out 
better checks.
Miss Hs credit file shows she had three defaults at the time, the last of which was March 
2015. It also shows two County Court Judgments from 2014 and 2015, both of which were 
settled in July 2017.
I cant see that Miss H had any other short-term loans at the time of her second and third 
loan applications, and there was nothing to indicate her credit expenditure would have made 
the loan repayments unaffordable. As the defaults and CCJs were at least two years earlier, 
I dont consider they were sufficient grounds for Myjar to have declined the loan applications. 
I have seen no other information that should have suggested Miss H was struggling to 
manage her money, so I cant conclude Myjar was wrong to have approved loans 2 or 3.
I acknowledge Myjar has agreed to uphold Miss Hs complaint about loan 4, so I wont 
consider it further here. I would encourage Miss H to contact Myjar to discuss an affordable 
repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, but that Myjar should resolve Miss Hs 
complaint about loan 4, as it has offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2020. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman