DRN-3019740
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct, unfairly applied an 
early repayment charge (ERC) when they repaid their mortgage. They also complain about 
the service that first direct provided.
What happened
IMr and Mrs C had an interest only mortgage with first direct. In 2019, they took out two-year 
fixed interest rate products on the two parts of the mortgage. An ERC applied if the 
mortgage was repaid during the two-year fixed rate period  3% of the mortgage limit in the 
first year and 2% in subsequent months.
Later in 2019, Mr and Mrs C said that Mr C lost his job and a significant investment that was 
the intended repayment vehicle for the mortgage. They decided to sell their home before the 
payments became unaffordable. But when they did so, first direct applied an ERC of 
£15,750.
Mr and Mrs C consider it was unfair for first direct to apply the ERC for a number of reasons, 
including:
They were acting responsibly by repaying a mortgage they could no longer afford.
The amount of the ERC was more than they would have paid over the 12 and a half 
months left on the mortgage. The ERC cant be relative to the cost to first direct of the 
mortgage being repaid early.
They were charged an additional £5,250 because the mortgage was repaid seven days 
before the first year was up.
The ERC was a fine not a charge.
The ERC was payable on the limit, not the actual balance.
Mr and Mrs C also complain about the service provided by first direct:
It offered no assistance when they told it about their financial difficulty.
HSBC sent them offers of credit cards and personal loans after it knew their financial 
position.
They havent been given a breakdown of the ERC.
first direct told them that the decision to impose the ERC could not be appealed and 
there was no point bringing it to us as we always support HSBC.
first direct asked their solicitor for the ERC twice.
Money was moved around their current account without their consent.
The accounting has been misleading.
The subject access request wasnt recorded, then was late and when it arrived it wasnt 
a complete record of all documents.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept what the investigator said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ERC
When Mr and Mrs C switched products in 2019 they accepted the terms of the new 
mortgage. That included that an ERC of 3% would be applied if the mortgage was repaid in 
the first year. The ERC was set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer. Im 
satisfied that first direct took reasonable steps to make Mr and Mrs C aware of the 
circumstances in which it would apply an ERC and how much it would charge. It has applied 
the ERC in line with the terms of the offer. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs C might have been close to falling into the second year of the fixed 
rate period and reducing the ERC to 2%. But the offer was clear about the amount of ERC 
that would apply. I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable for me to say that first direct 
should apply a lower ERC because it was close to the date the lower percentage applied  
just as I wouldnt say it was fair and reasonable for first direct to apply the higher percentage 
if things were the other way round.
The relevant mortgage rules allow first direct to apply an ERC in certain circumstances. So 
the fact that first direct has applied an ERC isnt inherently unfair. And while I sympathise 
with the circumstances that Mr and Mrs C found themselves in and that their decision to sell 
their property may well have been the sensible thing to do, it doesnt follow that first direct 
wasnt entitled to apply the ERC. Looking at Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances overall, I dont 
consider it was unfair for first direct to enforce the contract theyd agreed to.
But first direct didnt have a free hand to charge Mr and Mrs C whatever it wanted. The rules 
say that first direct can only apply an ERC if it is a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the 
mortgage being repaid early. That estimate doesnt have to be specific to Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage but can be calculated across a range of mortgages of a similar type. Its important 
to note that the ERC is only required to be a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to first 
direct of the mortgage being repaid early. 
There may be some cases where first directs losses are more or less than the ERC. But as 
long as it can demonstrate that it was a reasonable pre-estimate of its costs then it is likely to 
be fair. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Cs point that the total amount they would have had to pay over the 
remainder of the fixed rate period was less than the ERC. But first direct has explained that 
the potential cost of the mortgage being repaid early to it isnt as straightforward as that. The 
information it has provided is commercially sensitive  so I can accept it in confidence. But 
the costs it takes into account include the costs of setting up and administering the mortgage, the estimated cost of unwinding financial instruments it uses to protect itself from 
fluctuations in interest rates and potential opportunities it has lost out on. The factors it takes 
into account are in my opinion reasonable.
Ive looked carefully at the information provided by first direct. Having done so, I consider it 
has estimated the ERC in a fair and reasonable way. It is entitled to use the mortgage limit, 
rather than the actual balance to pre-estimate the cost to it of the mortgage being repaid 
early.
approach to Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances
Lenders do have an obligation to treat borrowers who are in financial difficulty fairly. There 
are a range of concessions it can offer to assist borrowers who are experiencing trouble 
paying their mortgage. The difficulty here is that one of those options was switching to 
interest only  and Mr and Mrs C already had an interest only mortgage. And extending the 
term wouldnt help them as the payment wouldnt reduce. The other options were capitalising 
the arrears, but there were no arrears. Interest could be suspended or deferred, but that 
would affect Mr and Mrs Cs credit file. Practically, there wasnt much first direct could do to 
help Mr and Mrs C at that point. 
Mr and Mrs C contacted first direct after they had put their house up for sale. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for first direct not to consider what assistance it could offer them. As set 
out above, practically there was little first direct could do in the circumstances. Bearing in 
mind the plans that Mr and Mrs C had made I dont think it was unfair for first direct not to 
offer anything further. And as Ive said, being in financial difficulty isnt a reason why a lender 
should refund an ERC. But I dont consider first direct has acted unfairly by not doing so 
here.
I dont consider that first direct acted unreasonably by sending marketing literature to Mr and 
Mrs C. It updated their preferences when it heard they were dissatisfied.
It was clearly wrong for first direct to try and put Mr and Mrs C off from referring their 
complaint to us. But I think its offer of £100 for any distress and inconvenience caused by 
that  which it has already paid  is fair.
payments from account and contact with solicitors
There are two issues here; the interest payments that first direct took from Mr and Mrs C 
after the mortgage had been repaid  and the funds that were transferred by Mr and Mrs C 
out of the mortgage account into their own accounts and then transferred back by first direct.
After the mortgage was repaid, first direct debited four payments totalling around £1,700 
from Mr and Mrs Cs bank account. That corresponds with the four amounts of interest due 
on the redemption statement. But first direct credited the account with the same amount in 
two payments before that. So I cant see that caused Mr and Mrs C any financial loss. I 
appreciate that it may have caused some confusion. In my experience it isnt unusual for 
lenders to reconcile accounts in this way once a mortgage is repaid.
I have listened to the phone call that Mrs C spoke to first direct about the credit that was 
showing in the mortgage account. During that call, first direct explains that it can take about 
24 to 48 hours for things to settle down after a mortgage is repaid and she would see 
things changing while different departments were processing the closure of the mortgage. It 
appears that Mr and Mrs C then transferred the credit balance showing in the mortgage to 
their own accounts. I cant see that first direct led them to believe that amount was due to 
them.I dont consider it was unfair for HSBC to move this money back. I am satisfied that money 
was due. Banks usually have a right to set off credit balances against money owed. I dont 
consider it was unfair for first direct to do so here. And I think it was reasonable for first direct 
to contact Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor.
I understand that there was some confusion. But I cant see any evidence that Mr and Mrs C 
suffered any financial loss as a result of that.
subject access request
If Mr and Mrs C think that first direct hasnt fully complied with their subject access request, 
they should contact the Information Commissioners Office.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Im satisfied the amount already paid 
by first direct is a fair way to settle this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman