DRN-4086427
The complaint
Mr A complains through his representative, a claims management company (CMC), that he 
was given unsuitable investment advice by HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mr A received investment advice from HSBC in 1999. He was assessed as having a 
balanced attitude to risk (ATR) and was advised to invest £6,240 into a PEP, £4,500 
into an ISA and £3,000 into a Capital Protected PEP.
The CMC complained to HSBC on his behalf in 2021. The complaint was partially 
upheld as HSBC thought the advice to invest in the PEPs was suitable but the advice 
to invest in the ISA wasnt. They offered redress based on the ISA investment not 
being made and the funds not being exposed to any risk. 
Mr A accepted their findings regarding the ISA but asked us to look into the other two 
investments.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt think it should 
be upheld. She acknowledged that Mr A was an inexperienced investor but thought 
that he could accept some loss and had the capacity to make up any potential 
losses. Hed confirmed that he was aware that he was being advised to take a risk 
and that the value could fall, so she thought the advice to invest in the PEPs wasnt 
unsuitable.
The CMC didnt agree with her findings and said, in summary, that HSBC hadnt 
carried out an appropriate assessment of Mr As capacity to invest, capacity for loss 
or ability to recover any losses. This was because of inaccurate information in the 
Fact Find document from the time - specifically regarding his mortgage payments 
and his net disposable income.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to say that Ive summarised what I consider to be the key points of this 
complaint in much less detail than Mr As submissions. I mean no discourtesy by this, and it 
simply reflects the informal role of this service. However, Id like to assure Mr A that Ive read 
and considered all the points hes made and all the available evidence before making my 
decision. 
Having considered everything, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will now go 
on to explain why. Ive thought about Mr As circumstances at the time the advice was given. 
There is limited evidence from the time of sale, which isnt surprising given the length of time 
thats passed since the advice was given. There is a brief fact find which notes that Mr A 
owned his own house, was single with no dependents and was employed as a qualified 
accountant with an annual salary of c.£37,000. 
It was recorded that he didnt want to disclose his monthly expenditure, but hed confirmed 
that he had more than enough income to live on and the funds for the investment came from 
a redundancy payment from his previous employer. He had £21,000 in savings including 
£3,000 held in a TESSA. He had a balanced ATR and wanted to invest for capital growth. 
HSBCs recommendation was that he should invest £6,240 into a PEP, £4,500 into an ISA 
and £3,000 into a Capital Protected PEP.
Ive taken into account HSBCs decision that the advice to invest in the ISA was unsuitable 
as it didnt leave Mr A with enough of a cash reserve. Ive therefore considered the makeup 
of Mr As portfolio if the £4,500 that was invested in the ISA had remained in cash. This 
would have meant that he had £9,240 at risk and £11,760 in cash-based deposits. He didnt 
appear to have any investment experience, but this wouldnt necessarily mean that he 
couldnt take any risk with some of his capital in order to meet his objectives. 
Theres limited information around how Mr As ATR was assessed, and I take the points 
made by the CMC around inaccuracies, but I can see that there a discussion around the 
risks of the proposed investments, the implications of risk vs reward and the need to keep an 
element of his capital secure. On balance, I dont think I have enough evidence to say that 
Mr A wasnt made aware of the risks associated with the advice he was given. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr A was in a position where he could take some risk 
with a portion of his capital. Im satisfied that the makeup of his portfolio - factoring in the 
upheld element of his complaint - wasnt unsuitable for his circumstances and I dont think 
that an assessment of having a balanced ATR wasnt appropriate for him for at the time. It 
therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman