DRN-3117182
The complaint
Mr L is complaining that (RSA) has cancelled his home insurance through no fault of his 
own, and that going forwards he will have to declare this to other insurers and be penalised 
financially.
What happened
Both parties know whats happened in this complaint, so Im not going to go into great detail. 
In summary, Mr L already held buildings cover for his home with RSA, and he got in touch to 
say he was considering buying contents cover as well. He and RSA discussed the cover and 
in particular that Mr L had several watches that were each likely to be worth more than the 
individual valuables limit of £2,000, and so would need to be specifically declared. And if the 
items were worth over £5,000  as some of the watches were  then an up to date valuation 
was required. Mr L said it was difficult to do this as there were COVID restrictions in place at 
the time  and he also said he had other items of jewellery that needed valuing too.
Mr L and RSA agreed that they would proceed on an assumption that he would have the 
four watches individually listed and get these and the rest of his jewellery valued as soon as 
feasible. They agreed that a reasonable starting point for a quote was that the rest of his 
items were likely to be worth about £5,000 but individually less than £2,000. Mr L was sent 
the paperwork for the policy and a few days later decided to buy it.
Some time later Mr L had his possessions valued, and alongside the four watches there 
were six more items that were worth more than £2,000 each, and five of them worth more 
than £5,000. When it found out about this, RSA said it wouldnt be able to insure Mr L at all, 
as this extent of cover was outside its risk parameters. It gave Mr L 14 days notice of 
cancellation so he could look for alternate cover.
Mr L found cover elsewhere but complained about several things: the first was that he feels 
he was misled into buying the contents cover, and also that there was no need for RSA to 
cancel his building cover just because it didnt want to insure his belongings.
He said that more importantly, hes now having to declare the cancellation to other insurers 
and feels hes already been charged more than necessary for his new policy because of this.
RSA didnt uphold the complaint. When Mr L brought it to us to review, our investigator 
thought RSA had acted fairly in most things  but that it shouldnt have cancelled the building 
cover. RSA offered Mr L £155 to make up for this. RSA has also given Mr L a letter 
explaining that the cover was cancelled because of its underwriting criteria  not because Mr 
L had done anything wrong. It says also that its not recorded the cancellations on any 
databases  and will confirm that too if Mr L wishes. RSA thinks this is enough for Mr L to 
show potential insurers if they have any questions about this.
Mr L doesnt think this goes far enough. He wants RSA to get its legal department to confirm 
he need not declare the cancellation going forwards and doesnt believe the letter he has is 
good enough. He thinks RSA could change its mind about this at some point in the future 
and hed be left having unknowingly made false declarations on insurance applications.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, as I think RSA has done enough to put things right for 
Mr L.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided, and I cant say RSA misled Mr L into thinking he 
could buy cover when he couldnt. Instead I think RSA tried to accommodate him during a 
period when he was finding it difficult to get his possessions valued  and they agreed that 
hed do that as soon as he could. I cant say RSA should have warned Mr L that it wouldnt 
cover him if the items went over a certain limit, because it didnt seem likely that would 
happen from what Mr L said. He was content enough with the quote for the four individually 
listed items and the £5,000 figure for unspecified valuables to buy the policy, so he must 
have thought that fairly reflected the worth of his belongings.
RSA acknowledged that it shouldnt have cancelled Mr Ls building policy and offered to re-
instate this  although Mr L declined. And it has paid £155 compensation to make up for the 
inconvenience he suffered.
The normal actions we expect of a business that has made an error is for it to put Mr L in the 
position hed have been in without that mistake. RSA says a letter on its headed paper 
explaining that the cancellation was because of its underwriting policies would be enough for 
Mr L to show any potential insurer should the question arise. And it says its not recorded the 
cancellation anywhere which would include any shared industry databases  so theres no 
need for Mr L to declare this. Its happy to send an amended letter adding this point.
I appreciate that Mr L doesnt think this goes far enough  but I think it does. This type of 
letter is regularly issued by insurers to help customers find cover without suffering penalties 
from other providers. Whoever signs the letter, its on RSA headed notepaper and other 
insurers are as likely to accept this as they would something similar from RSAs legal 
department. In the unlikely event Mr L was ever challenged about not declaring the 
cancellation, I think the letter he has would be good enough. I cant ask RSA to pre-empt 
problems that havent arisen.
Mr L says hes already had to pay more for insurance from his new provider. I dont have any 
evidence of that, but if Mr L thinks this is so, he could show the letter to his new insurer. If he 
has paid extra because he declared a cancellation and the insurer doesnt accept the letter 
as evidence, then Mr L might have good reason to complain again. But as I said above, I 
cant ask RSA to pre-empt something that hasnt happened.
I do think RSA made some mistakes here  but Im persuaded its done enough, now, to put 
these right for Mr L.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021. 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman