DRN-2963313
The complaint
Ms D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a level term assurance life policy in 
1994.
What happened
Ms D applied for a Post Graduate Study loan in 1994. The loan was for seven years and 
inclusive of a two-year deferred period at the start. The payments started in 1996 and ended 
in 2001. The conditions of the borrowing were a personal guarantee from one of Ms Ds 
parents, an undertaking from her other parent and a level term assurance policy for £20,000 
on the life of Ms D.
Ms D complained to HSBC in 2017 and 2019, and they didnt uphold the complaint. They 
said theyd had difficulty recovering records from the time of the sale but thought the level 
term assurance policy was suitable. After receiving a final response from HSBC in 2019, Ms 
D brought her complaint to our service. HSBC consented to us looking into the complaints 
Ms D had made.
One of our investigators looked into things for Ms D and thought that HSBC hadnt done 
anything wrong. The investigator said the life policy had to be taken out as a condition of the 
loan, and a level term assurance policy was suitable.
Ms D didnt agree with our investigator and has asked that an ombudsman decides her 
complaint. She says she wasnt given any choice of alternative life cover, and this adds to 
her belief that the personal guarantee and the sale of policy were part of a hard-sell by 
HSBC. Ms D says she had funds in other savings that wouldve paid off her loan if shed 
died, and that HSBC sold a £20,000 term cover policy that was well above her loan value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The loan agreement and the application form from 1994 are the only documents available 
from the time of the sale. Ive considered Ms Ds testimony that she felt she was pressured 
into taking out the life cover. And, Ive also considered the testimony from HSBC that the life 
cover was a condition of the loan and that it was suitable. Because there are no meeting 
notes or telephone calls to rely on, I will consider all the evidence and make my decision 
based on what I think is likely to have happened in 1994.
Ms D says that it was difficult to obtain a Post Graduate Study loan in 1994, explaining that 
there wasnt a wide choice of loans available at the time. She says shed transferred her 
banking account to HSBC as her existing bank didnt provide such a loan. HSBC offered the 
loan and included the condition that a level term life assurance policy must be taken on Ms 
Ds life for the term. I empathise that Ms D felt the conditions HSBC applied, including the 
requirement of a life policy, were onerous. However, its up to HSBC to decide what, if any, 
conditions they place on the loan. So, I cant tell them they shouldnt have made life cover a 
condition. That is a commercial decision for HSBC. Ive noted Ms Ds comments that Post 
Graduate Study loans werent widely available at the time, and this may have prevented her 
from exploring other options, but it doesnt mean I can say HSBC were wrong to insist on the 
life policy being a condition of the loan.
Ive noted Ms D says she had enough funds elsewhere and a part-time job that wouldve 
paid off the loan had she died. However, Ive seen the application form she signed recorded 
she had £939 available in a cash reserve account. This wasnt enough to pay-off the loan if 
shed died during the term, and any payments and debt wouldve fallen on the guarantor. Its 
reasonable HSBC considered this at the time and made it a condition life cover was taken 
out.
Even though I cant tell HSBC that they shouldnt have made the level term policy a condition 
of the loan, I can consider whether the policy was appropriate when it was sold. This isnt a 
straight-forward assessment as the loan was set-up on a repayment basis over a seven-year 
term, but the payments were deferred for two years. Interest accrued in the first two years 
was added to the balance of the loan. This means that a standard decreasing term 
assurance policy wouldnt be appropriate as the sum assured wouldnt be guaranteed to pay 
off the outstanding balance. Similarly, taking out a level term assurance policy would likely 
mean that the sum assured would be more than the loan, which started to decrease after 
two years.
HSBC has explained the level term assurance was set-up at the lowest premium available at 
the time, which supports that the £20,000 life cover provided was likely the minimum cover 
on the policy. In this case, it doesnt seem unfair or unreasonable that HSBC decided to 
make it a condition to take out a level term assurance policy rather than a decreasing term 
policy. A decreasing term assurance policy would run the risk of not providing full life 
protection over the term of the loan. And, I think its likely this is the reason why HSBC 
thought it was more appropriate than the decreasing term policy. Neither policy was entirely 
appropriate. But Im satisfied the level term assurance policy ensured the loan was fully 
protected during the term if Ms D died, so I dont consider HSBC did anything significantly 
wrong here. It seems to me that HSBC acted appropriately at the time of the sale to ensure 
the loan would be fully repaid if Ms D died. This would leave no debt to the estate or to the 
guarantor if Ms D died within the term of the loan, even if it did provide some residual net life 
before the loan was repaid.
Ive considered whether HSBC told Ms D she could shop around for alternative life cover at 
the time. There are no notes or recordings of what was discussed some 20 years ago, so 
this is challenging to decide. The loan agreement didnt specifically say the life cover needed 
to be with HSBC, just that a level term assurance for £20,000 needed to be in place. And, 
although there is no evidence that HSBC specifically told Ms D she may shop around for 
cover, Im persuaded the condition, as it was included in the loan agreement, meant that it 
was reasonable to conclude cover didnt need to be with HSBC. So, it seems likely to me 
that Ms D accepted the cover as there is no evidence she wanted to shop around for 
alternative cover at the time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman