DRN-4057418
The complaint
W, a limited company, has complained about the way that Society of Lloyds calculated the 
settlement of its business interruption insurance claim. Reference to Lloyds in this decision 
includes the underwriting syndicate which issued the policy.
Mr M, a director of W, has brought the complaint on Ws behalf.
What happened
W runs a pub with a bed and breakfast business, tearoom and holiday let. It started trading 
in June 2019 and held a commercial insurance policy issued by Lloyds. The policy ran from 
12 June 2019 to 11 June 2020. The policy was renewed in June 2020 but with an exclusion 
for losses caused by Covid-19.
W made a claim to Lloyds in April 2020 after it was required to close the business under the 
Covid-19 lockdown restrictions. Initially Lloyds declined the claim. 
In the same month the Financial Conduct Authority announced its intention to obtain a court 
declaration aimed at resolving the uncertainty around the validity of many business 
interruption insurance claims (the test case). 
In January 2021 the Supreme Court issued its judgment in the test case. As a result of that 
judgment Lloyds accepted the claim and asked W for information regarding its losses. 
Lloyds said it would assess Ws losses over an indemnity period running for 24 months from 
March 2020. That meant it took into account increased trading after the lockdowns ended. It 
calculated that W hadnt in fact made a loss at all.
W complained to Lloyds about its interpretation of the indemnity period. It argued Lloyds 
should just consider its accounts just for the lockdown periods which began in March 2020, 
November 2020 and January 2021.
As Lloyds didnt change its decision about the indemnity period, W brought its complaint to 
this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the 
complaint in part. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
Lloyds accepted Ws claim under the following clause in the policy which covered business 
interruption losses caused by:
any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease within a radius of 1 mile of the Premises.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that the policy definition of Notifiable Disease 
includes Covid-19.
Ws policy was in force between 12 June 2019 and 11 June 2020. The loss or damage 
claimed for must have happened during this period of insurance.
The indemnity period is the period of time during which the insurer will support the business 
following an insured event such as Covid-19. In this policy it is defined as: 
the period beginning with the occurrence of the damage and ending not later than the 
maximum indemnity period thereafter during which the results of the business are 
affected in consequence of such damage.
In this case the maximum indemnity period was 24 months.
Lloyds decided that the indemnity period started on 5 March 2020 being the date on which 
there was a Notifiable Disease within one mile of the premises. The date of 5 March 2020 is 
the date upon which Covid-19 became a notifiable disease in England. Provided W can 
show it was impacted on this date and there was a case of Covid-19 within a one-mile radius 
of the premises, I think it would be reasonable to take 5 March 2020 as the date when the 
damage (as defined by the policy) started. 
After the end of the first lockdown when pubs in England reopened on 4 July 2020 there was 
an increase in Ws trade. W says this was due to investment in the business. Lloyds asserts 
that pent-up demand and the Governments Eat Out to Help Out scheme very largely 
contributed to the increase. So it thinks Ws business was still affected by the case(s) of 
Covid-19 that had led to the claim.
I need to consider when the indemnity period should end. Under the policy wording the 
indemnity period ends when the results of the business cease to be affected by the 
occurrence of a notifiable disease (as defined in the policy) which has occurred within a one-
mile radius of the property up to a maximum period of 24 months.
Lloyds calculated Ws losses over a 24-month indemnity period. However, the Government 
restrictions were reviewed and changed over time. Before the hospitality sector in England 
was allowed to reopen on 4 July 2020, the Government issued guidance setting out a range 
of measures for pubs and restaurants to make their premises safer from a Covid-19 
perspective such as requiring the use of table service where possible, providing clear 
signage on social distancing and hygiene etc. I think this shows that things had moved on 
from the original event causing the loss under the policy (the occurrence of Covid-19 within 
one mile of the premises) and by 4 July 2020 that same event could no longer be said to be 
affecting Ws trade either positively or negatively.
In reaching a decision, amongst other things I have to consider relevant law and I think the 
judgments in the cases of Stonegate Pub Company Ltd v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd 
and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm) (Stonegate), Greggs PLC v Zurich Insurance PLC 
[2022] EWHC 2545 (Comm) (Greggs) and Various Eateries Trading Ltd v Allianz Insurance 
PLC [2002] EWHC 2549 (Comm) (VE) are helpful when considering this complaint. Thats 
because, one of the issues considered by the court was whether losses sustained beyond 
the expiry date of the policies were caused by occurrences of Covid-19 when the policy was 
in force. 
In Stonegate the relevant period of insurance came to an end on 30 April 2020. The court 
said (at paragraph 209):
At least after 4 July 2020 (or 6 July 2020 for Scotland and 13 July for Wales), when 
hospitality venues reopened, the government response, as I find from its nature and from 
what was said, was principally in response to the subsequent developments of the disease 
and the threat it posed from time to time. Those responses were not equally caused by the 
cases before the end of the Period of Insurance, but rather were predominantly caused by more recent cases, and the threat of future cases, at the time of the adoption of the measure 
in question. 
In VE the period of insurance came to an end on 28 September 2020. At paragraph 48 the 
court summarised the findings from Stonegate to reject VEs argument that losses 
throughout the maximum indemnity period had been caused concurrently and equally by all 
the cases of Covid-19 which had occurred within the relevant radius. The court said: 
(1) the decisions in the FCA Test Case do not establish that all cases of Covid-19, 
whenever occurring, were equal concurrent causes of the governmental actions and public 
response at any given time; 
(2) the fact that the cases of the disease occurred in Period of Insurance may have caused 
the later cases of the disease (because cases make cases) is not sufficient to say that the 
cases of the disease in the Period of Insurance were the proximate cause of governmental 
measures and public response after the Period of Insurance; and 
(3) the death blow or grip of the peril principle is inapplicable. 
In Greggs, the court said at paragraph 39: 
it appears highly doubtful that, on any view, there can be said to have been only one 
period of interruption or interference. It seems certain that the degree of interruption or 
interference with Greggs business changed over time between the first cases of Covid-19 
and the end of the Indemnity Period
Therefore, while an occurrence of Covid-19 within a one-mile radius of Ws premises caused 
it to suffer a loss in March 2020, this same occurrence did not affect Ws trade from 4 July 
2020. I think its fair to say that the indemnity period should end on the day before the first 
lockdown restrictions for pubs and restaurants were lifted in England, that is 3 July 2020. 
That means W isnt covered under the policy being considered here for later occurrences 
which led to the lockdown periods in November 2020 and January 2021 because the policy 
had ended by that time. 
In summary, I think Lloyds should recalculate the settlement based on an indemnity period 
running from 5 March 2020 up to and including 3 July 2020.
If as a result of such re-calculation a settlement amount is due to W, I currently think it is fair 
and reasonable that Lloyds should add interest to the first months loss from two months 
after the claim was made, the second months loss from three months after the claim was 
made and so on until the date of settlement. Interest is simple interest at the rate of 8% a 
year.
In summary Lloyds made the following points in response:
It reminded me that the indemnity period is defined as the period during which the 
results of the business are affected in consequence of such damage.
It thought the indemnity period should cease only when the business was no longer 
adversely or positively affected by the insured peril.
It said Of necessity, make-up trading will be experienced after a business reopens 
following a period of closure.
It sent information on the success of the Eat Out to Help Out (EOHO) scheme.
It thought the scheme was an attempt to reverse the damage caused to hospitality 
businesses by the first lockdown.Mr M said that W wouldnt have been able to reopen in July 2020 if it hadnt been for a 
bounce back loan of £50,000 which it had taken out in May 2020. The loan was interest-free 
for the first 12 months. As at 28 February 2023 the loan had not been repaid. 
Our investigator explained to W that we often dont require a business to pay any interest on 
delayed settlement for the period when a consumer didnt have to pay interest on a bounce 
back loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds says that W experienced bumper trading when it reopened in July 2020 due to the 
incentives provided by the EOHO scheme and pent-up demand. Lloyds goes on to allege 
that these were direct results of the insured peril, namely cases of Covid-19 within a one-
mile radius of the premises. I disagree and Ill explain why.
A briefing paper prepared by the House of Commons Library [CBP8978, 22 December 2020] 
described the EOHO scheme as one of the governments policy measures aimed to support 
businesses reopening after the first Covid-19 lockdown period. It formed part of the 
Chancellors summer economic update on 8 July 2020. There were various other support 
measures around this time targeted at the hospitality industry.
In the Stonegate case referred to above the claimant was claiming for all its business losses 
suffered as a result of the occurrence of Covid-19 within the vicinity of its premises up to the 
end of the 36-month indemnity period provided by the policy on the basis that all such losses 
were proximately caused by losses occurring within the policy period. One of the arguments 
put forward on behalf of the claimant was essentially that cases make cases. The court 
didnt agree. The judge in that case said at para 216:
It would mean that cases within the Period of Insurance were regarded as proximately 
causative of loss which occurred as a result of the occurrence of different cases, many 
generations of infection later, simply because these other cases would not have existed 
without the earlier cases. That would mean that a very indirect and distant cause (the earlier 
cases) was regarded as a proximate cause of the loss.
By analogy I think the Governments EOHO scheme was primarily a response to damage to 
part of the UK economy as opposed to being directly caused by the original cases of Covid-
19 which led to Ws premises having to close. 
Similarly, I think any pent-up consumer demand after 4 July 2020 would have been driven by 
a number of different factors, such as public perception that the risk of infection had 
decreased and measures taken in the hospitality sector to make their premises safer from a 
Covid-19 perspective. Again, I dont think that the original peril can be said to have affected 
the results of Ws business after this point.
I remain of the view that Lloyds should recalculate the settlement based on an indemnity 
period running from 5 March 2020 up to and including 3 July 2020.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I think Lloyds should reconsider Ws claim on the basis of an 
indemnity period running from 5 March 2020 up to and including 3 July 2020.I provisionally thought that if as a result of such re-calculation a settlement amount was due 
to W, it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to add interest to the first months loss from 
two months after the claim was made, the second months loss from three months after the 
claim was made and so on until the date of settlement.
I need to take account of the fact that in May 2020 W took out a bounce back loan of 
£50,000. No interest is charged on the loan for the first year and thereafter it is charged at 
2.5%. As I dont think this loan wouldnt have been necessary if Ws claim had been settled 
promptly and correctly, I dont think W was without the settlement funds from the date of the 
loan until the amount of the settlement based on monthly interim payments as set out above 
exceeded the £50,000 received via the bounce back loan or until the date when interest was 
payable on the loan whichever is the sooner. So, no interest is payable for this period. For 
the period when interest is payable it is simple interest at the rate of 8% a year.
However, Lloyds is entitled to deduct from this interest calculation any interest which would 
be payable on the sum of Ws bounce back loan for the period W has had the benefit of this 
loan. Lloyds should instead pay W the cost of its borrowing.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Society of Lloyds 
to put things right as set out above.:
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman