DRN-3337124
The complaint
Mr P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a claim on his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include its 
plumbing and drainage company and others insofar as I hold that insurance company 
responsible for its actions.
Mr P held a HomeCare policy with British Gas which renewed on 29 October 2020. 
In July 2021 Mr P noticed water coming down his kitchen wall and contacted British Gas. It 
sent out an engineer who checked the bathroom above. The engineer thought the leak was 
coming from poor sealant around the bath and shower and they advised Mr P not to use the 
bath/shower until this had been replaced.
Mr P had the sealant replaced but because the leak continued he called British Gas again. A 
further engineer attended but they also felt the issue was with the sealant and that it hadnt 
been applied correctly. 
As the leak continued another engineer attended on 24 July 2021 and located a leak to the 
bath waste pipe  they repaired the issue and the leak stopped. 
Mr P complained to British Gas that its failure to identify the leak sooner had caused damage 
to his property. 
British Gas issued its final response but didnt think it had caused the damage. It did offer  
Mr P £100 compensation for the multiple visits. Unhappy with that, Mr P brought his 
complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. The investigator didnt 
think it was fair to hold British Gas responsible for the damage caused to Mr Ps property.  
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion and he asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says 
British Gas failed to trace the leak sooner which caused the damage to the property
The problem wasnt already there, and nothing needed to be fixed prior to the first 
visit 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The British Gas policy terms included the following: 
Any other loss or damage 
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture 
or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we 
caused it. For example damage caused by water leaks 
So British Gas excluded responsibility for water leaks unless they were caused by British 
Gas. 
From its records, I see that on the first couple of visits British Gas noted poor sealant and 
some cracked tiles around the bath. It advised Mr P not to use the bath or shower. British 
Gas didnt fix the sealant or tiles. But the policy didnt cover that. 
British Gas didnt cause the water damage. Mr Ps complaint is that British Gas failed to 
minimise water damage that had already started. 
British Gas told us that the issue wasnt misdiagnosed but it was in the process of 
eliminating potential contributing factors. I dont think this is unreasonable and I find it 
possible that there may have been more than one leak in the bathroom. 
So while it may have been desirable for all the issues to be diagnosed on the first visit I can 
see from the records that British Gas did carry out checks to try and find out the cause of the 
issue and eventually felt at that visit it was more likely to be the sealant around the bath and 
shower. 
From the photographs Ive seen, its clear that there was already significant damage to the 
downstairs wall with the wallpaper bubbling around the light switch prior to British Gas 
attending Mr Ps property. Mr P has provided us further photos of the opposite side of the 
wall and I appreciate these also show considerable water damage, but I cant be certain that 
this damage wasnt already in the process of occurring and if over time this would have 
penetrated through in any event. 
Ive also noted that Mr P had contacted British Gas after the second visit as hed remained 
unhappy with the diagnosis. Hes told us British Gas said it would send a further engineer 
when available. But I note despite being concerned about the leak continuing the bath was 
still used which resulted in the further downpour of water from the bathroom. As Mr P was 
still concerned about the leak, in the circumstances I would have expected him to avoid 
using the bath or shower until the engineer arrived to avoid any further damage to his 
property.  
As British Gas didnt cause the leak, I cant hold it responsible for any consequential loss. It 
may be that some of the damage worsened due to the time it took for British Gas to finally 
locate the full extent of the leak but as Ive mentioned there was already considerable 
damage caused prior to British Gas attending. 
British Gas have offered Mr P £100 in compensation for the delay and I think this is fair. And 
as its likely Mr P would have had to pay his excess in any event considering the damage 
that had already started, I dont think it would be fair of me to ask British Gas to pay his 
excess on his home insurance policy too.    
I recognise the experience would have been frustrating for Mr P. But I think the amount 
offered by British Gas is fair and in line with amounts awarded by this service for similar 
cases. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman