DRN-2117968
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) isnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
Mr C acquired a brand-new Mercedes E Class in September 2018 with the assistance of a 
hire purchase agreement with MBFS. Mr C says the car isnt of satisfactory quality because 
there were issues with the audio unit and the roof has required a number of repairs.  
MBFS say that the car had covered around 12,000 miles before the problem with the roof 
presented and so it was not present at the point of sale. It said there was no evidence that 
the audio unit fault has not been satisfactorily repaired. Mr C had been refunded his 
repayments whilst the car was in for repairs which it said was fair and reasonable.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. He 
thought that the issues with the radio were present at the point of sale and should not be 
expected of a car of this age and quality. He also thought that the ongoing issue with the roof 
had not been satisfactorily repaired and the car was not sufficiently durable as it had 
required four roof repairs. He thought Mr C should be entitled to reject the car. Mr C agreed 
with the investigators view.
MBFS didnt agree, for the reasons it had previously put forward and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
Whilst the complaint was awaiting a review Mr C advised that the roof strings had required a 
further replacement.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has referred to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and his request to reject the car 
because it isnt pf satisfactory quality. MBFS says that the car should not be rejected 
because it has been repaired, the faults were raised approximately 8 months after the 
contract and there is no evidence that the car was faulty at the point of sale.
I dont apply the law directly in the same way that a court would approach matters, but I do 
take it into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable. The CRA provides 30 days to 
reject the car if it is not of satisfactory quality. After 30 days the business is allowed one 
opportunity to repair the car. There is no cut off point of 12 months however after 6 months 
the responsibility shifts to the consumer to show that the car was of not of satisfactory quality 
when Mr C bought it. 
Satisfactory quality covers a number of things. It should be free from defects and fit for 
purpose. Satisfactory quality also covers durability of components. So, it is reasonable to 
expect that a brand-new car will be fault free and the components will be expected to last 
longer than a used car that had covered significant mileage. The price paid for a car will also 
impact on what it is reasonable to expect in terms of quality. In Mr Cs case the car cost over 
£40,000.    
                                                                                                                                                        
I would not expect a brand-new convertible car costing over £40,000 to develop a recurring 
fault with the roof mechanism which has required replacement on 4 occasions. The fault first 
presented in April 2019 after only around 7 months of ownership. I think it is also reasonable 
to conclude that the roof would not have been retracted as often during September to April 
as this covered the winter months.
The roof strings were frayed and first replaced in June 2019 as there was a delay in 
obtaining the parts. Mr C noticed the strings were frayed again in July 2019 and a roof string 
repair kit was ordered in August 2019 but because of a delay they were not replaced until 
December 2019. Mr C said that the strings were frayed again in March 2020, but he was 
unable to take the car for repair because of the pandemic. The car had the roof strings 
replaced again in July 2020. 
Mr C reported that the roof strings had frayed again in December 2020 and the car has been 
returned to the garage to have a further set fitted.  
It appears to me that the car has an inherent fault with the roof that causes the roof strings to 
become frayed and worn.
I consider that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, it was not 
sufficiently durable and was not fit for purpose. It would be a reasonable expectation that a 
brand-new convertible car costing this amount would not have a fault causing the roof 
mechanism to require replacement on 4 separate occasions. It would be reasonable to 
expect the roof mechanism to last longer than this.
I therefore think that Mr C should be entitled to reject the car as numerous attempts at repair 
have been unsuccessful and it isnt reasonable to expect this to continue.
 
I consider that there was more than one attempt to repair the car that was unsuccessful, and 
it is not reasonable for any further attempts at repair and so Mr C is entitled to reject the car. 
I do not agree with MBFS on the basis of the evidence I have seen that the car has been 
satisfactorily repaired and there is no evidence that the car was faulty at the point of sale. I 
dont think this can be a wear and tear issue given the number of times it has happened. I 
think that Mr C has provided ample time and opportunity for the car to be properly repaired 
and MBFS has failed to ensure this was done. I consider that Mr C is now entitled to reject 
the car and unwind the agreement.
Mr C has confirmed that a refund was provided to reflect some of the period he was without 
the car because of the delay in obtaining the parts for repair in April to June 2019. Although 
MBFS arent responsible for the delay in parts being delivered, Mr C has been paying a 
considerable amount for a car he has been unable to use for a period of time. I agree with 
the investigator that MBFS should refund Mr C four monthly instalments for the further 
periods he has been without the car between August and December 2019. 
Mr C has explained that issue has impacted on his enjoyment of the car and he has been 
concerned about retracting the roof because of the issue. I am sure that this issue has 
caused Mr C considerable upset and distress and I agree with the investigator that MBFS 
should pay him £150 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.
 
Putting things rightTo put things right Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay;
Arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr C;
Refund four monthly payments together with 8% simple interest for September, 
October, November and December 2019 to reflect the period that Mr C has been 
without a car;
Pay Mr C £150 to reflect the trouble and upset caused;
Refund the deposit paid by Mr C together with 8% simple interest from the date paid 
to the date of settlement;
Remove any adverse information about the agreement from Mr Cs credit file.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited should put things right by doing as I have set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman