DRN-3852989
The complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about a mortgage current account (MCA) linked to her mortgage with 
Barclays Bank UK Plc. She has said that she had no knowledge of the existence of the MCA 
and doesnt think that Barclays should have allowed her late husband (Mr H) to use the MCA 
reserve when they were both unemployed, and go over the reserve limit. Following Mr Hs 
death she has found it difficult to pay the mortgage, has been unable to pay anything to the 
MCA balance, and doesnt think she has been treated fairly. In addition, Mrs H has 
questioned whether she is liable for the MCA debt.
Mrs H is represented in her complaint, but for ease, I will refer to all comments and 
submissions as hers. 
What happened
The mortgage application confirmed that both Mr and Mrs H were both working in 2007 and 
they had a joint income of slightly over £26,000. They had an existing mortgage with another 
lender for just over £51,300 and wanted to re-mortgage to Barclays. The new mortgage was 
arranged on repayment basis with an advance of £80,000 over a term of 16 years and 
6 months. Linked to the mortgage was a MCA.
The MCA had a reserve, or overdraft, facility attached to it. When setting up the 
arrangement, Barclays determined a total amount of borrowing it would allow Mr and Mrs H, 
and the initial MCA reserve amount was the difference between the mortgage amount and 
the total borrowing figure. There was a rebalancing functionality on the MCA reserve, 
whereby the reserve limit increased to reflect any decrease in the mortgage balance, thereby 
maintaining the total amount of borrowing available. There was no requirement for the 
reserve to be used by the accountholders.
When the mortgage application was submitted Mr and Mrs H had to sign documentation 
including the application form, a direct debit mandate for the mortgage and a Mortgage 
Reserve Authorised Signature document. The latter document was needed so that Barclays 
had a record of their signatures for use with the MCA. Both Mr and Mrs H signed this 
document.
In November 2009 the MCA reserve started to be used by a transfer of £3,000 into a joint 
account in Mr and Mrs Hs names. Further amounts were taken from the reserve during 
2010, including transfers into a savings scheme with Barclays.  Monthly payments were 
made in most months in the following year, which covered the interest charged. Following 
that, more money was taken out of the account until the middle of 2016 and the MCA 
reached the reserve limit around that time because of the addition of interest. 
In 2015 Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs H about the MCA reserve limit and proposed that it be 
reduced to £30,000. Mr H called Barclays to discuss the account and asked that the limit not 
be reduced. It was recorded at that time that Mr H understood the rebalancing feature and 
didnt want it turned off. 
Mr H told Barclays at the end of August 2016 that he had been out of work for a long time. 
However, a few weeks earlier he had returned to work and suffered a heart attack. This 
meant that hed had to stop work and wouldnt be able to manage to make the payments 
needed for the mortgage. From that point onward only small, sporadic payments were made 
into the MCA. The overdraft amounted to just under £44,000 with approximately £37,500 
having been withdrawn from the account, the difference being accumulated interest. 
There were numerous conversations between Mr H and Barclays about the mortgage and 
MCA balance. Some short-term forbearance arrangements were made at times. Some of the 
arrangements were maintained, but not all.  
In 2018 Mr H informed Barclays that the MCA reserve would be repaid from Mrs Hs pension 
funds. In August 2019 Barclays decided to start repossession action due to the amount the 
MCA balance was in excess of the reserve limit  approximately £5,000. Mr H again told 
Barclays that Mrs Hs pensions would be used to clear the MCA balance in 2020.
A couple of months later Mr H informed Barclays that he was out of work due to a cancer 
diagnosis. He said he expected the situation to improve within the next six months as hed 
be back to work. An income and expenditure exercise was completed, which showed that 
Mr and Mrs Hs income (including a contribution from a relative living with them) was 
approximately £1,1560 and their outgoings including the mortgage was £1,348. A payment 
arrangement was agreed to assist with the situation. Mr H also said that they were planning 
to arrange an equity release mortgage in August 2020.
In December 2019 Barclays spoke to Mrs H for the first time. She explained that Mr H was 
going in for surgery in Jan 2020. He normally dealt with their finances, but due to the 
situation, Barclays was to call her. Barclays suggested that they take independent advice 
and Mrs H said she would try to contact the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) and a debt 
management charity in the next month and address their unsecured debts. She also 
confirmed that their priority bills up to date. Mrs H went on to explained that in July 2020 she 
would be 55 and would take her pension. She would then clear the mortgage and MCA 
balance from the pension lump sum.
Payments to the mortgage began being intermittently missed in January 2020 and from 
March 2020 Barclays agreed a payment arrangement for three months where Mr and Mrs H 
could make payments significantly lower than the contractual monthly payments. They were 
also to pay the amount of the debit interest on the MCA. No payments were made between 
August 2020 and March 2021. 
Mr H died in June 2020 and Barclays was provided with the necessary documentation in 
August 2020. Barclays didnt contact Mrs H following that and it was not until October 2020, 
when there was further contact. Initially, this was for Barclays to acknowledge having 
received the documentation Mrs H had sent it. 
Mrs H called Barclays to discuss the mortgage at the end of October 2020. She was told 
what the outstanding debt was, including the MCA balance. She explained that Mr H had 
used the money from the MCA and she didnt think she was liable for the amount owed. She 
said she had a solicitor looking into the issue. In light of this, Barclays sent Mrs H a copy of 
the relevant terms and conditions. As she was in financial difficulties, Barclays explained that 
it would need to review her income and expenditure. This didnt happen at that time as 
Mrs H was concerned about Barclays approach to the situation.  
It was January 2021 when Mrs H next contacted Barclays. She was looking into the idea of 
the property being mortgaged into a family members name for enough to clear both the 
Barclays mortgage balance and the MCA. An income and expenditure exercise was completed and it was established that Mrs Hs outgoings (not including the mortgage 
payment) were nearly £350 higher than her income. A hold was placed on the account and 
Mrs H was recommended to seek independent financial advice. A complaint was raised 
about Mrs H not having been kept informed about the arrears situation. 
Later that month the CAB became involved and it requested that the mortgage payments be 
temporarily put on hold. It doesnt appear that Barclays dealt with this letter. When the CAB 
wrote again in March and April 2021, the letters were again not dealt with.
Over the next few months Mrs H told Barclays that she was concerned about the situation 
she was in. She asked to be allowed to consolidate the MCA and mortgage balances into a 
new mortgage with a longer term, but its not clear what Barclays response to this was, 
because the relevant department doesnt keep notes of its discussions with customers. 
However, nothing happened about this request, so it can be assumed that Barclays either 
said no to the question or Mrs H decided not to pursue the possibility. 
In the middle of March 2021 an income and expenditure exercise was again undertaken. 
Mrs H appears to have included the income of the relative living with her in the assessment, 
which meant it showed her normal outgoings were affordable and a surplus was available to 
deal with the arrears and MCA balance. Mrs H explained that she wasnt sure that the 
relative would be able to put as much into the arrangement as would be needed, and she 
would check. She explained that her main concern was the interest accruing on the MCA 
and it was explained that Barclays wouldnt stop the interest. Mrs H also said that the relative 
was looking into re-mortgaging the property into their name, at which point the full mortgage 
and MCA balances would be cleared, but it was unlikely to happen in the next six months. 
Barclays advised that if Mrs H established how much her relative would commit to, it would 
restart the assessment of whether it could do anything to help. Mrs H didnt do so
Over the following months Barclays attempted to speak to Mrs H about the situation, but she 
was unwilling to have discussions with it. Initially because she said the CAB was dealing with 
the situation and later because her complaint hadnt been dealt with, which she said was the 
reason for the arrears having accrued. 
Mrs H complained about the situation she found herself in and again questioned whether 
she was liable for the MCA reserve debt, as Mr H had borrowed the money without her 
knowledge, and she was being charged interest on that debt. She also questioned whether 
Mr H should have been allowed the borrowing, given that he was unemployed. By this point 
the MCA balance had increased due to the accrual of interest to approximately £51,000.
Barclays responded to Mrs Hs complaint in its letter of 26 May 2021. It provided a copy of 
the mortgage application, which set out that the mortgage came with a MCA and the reserve 
facility. In addition, it had sent MCA statements to Mr and Mrs H throughout which detailed 
the overdraft limit and the interest rate that would be charged on it. Barclays highlighted that 
the statements were addressed to both Mr and Mrs H. As such, it was satisfied that it hadnt 
made an error and it rejected the complaint. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred it to us. One of our investigators 
looked into our jurisdiction to consider the complaint. He concluded that we couldnt look into 
the sale of the MCA account as the complaint had been raised too late. However, we could 
look into the issue of the interest that had been charged on the MCA since 2015 and how 
Barclays had behaved since Mr Hs death and she asked for help due to financial difficulties.
Mrs H didnt accept the investigators conclusions regarding the arrangement of the MCA. 
She said that she didnt deal with any letters or documentation and had not been aware of the MCA reserve. She highlighted that the documentation she had provided from 2007 didnt 
include her signature. She asked that we consider the entire complaint. 
The investigator provided Mrs H with a copy of the MCA declaration she had signed. Mrs H 
maintained that she had no knowledge that she signed for the MCA or what it entailed. She 
then questioned if the MCA was signed for in 2007 when they were employed that was all 
well and good; however, she asked how Barclays had allowed Mr H to take £43,000 from the 
MCA reserve when he became unemployed. She suggested that this was gross misconduct 
and went against the regulators rules for the sale of loans. Mrs H also said that she 
considered the MCA should have been capped at £43,000, but Barclays allowed him to 
spend in excess of that amount, which was the reason for the amount of interest that was 
being charged on the debt. 
Our investigator considered what Mrs H had said, but it didnt change his conclusions that 
we couldnt consider any concerns she has about the sale of the MCA.  Mrs H accepted the 
investigators conclusion and asked that he consider the merits of the other elements of the 
complaint. 
The investigator did so and concluded that Barclays had behaved fairly in relation to the 
financial difficulties before Mr Hs death, as it had engaged with him and set up 
arrangements to deal with the overdraft limit having been exceeded. He also confirmed to 
Mrs H that there was a cap on the borrowing on the MCA, but that the debt had increased 
above that limit due to interest accruing. As the interest was charged in line with the account 
terms and conditions, he couldnt find Barclays at fault. 
However, the investigator didnt think that Barclays had done enough to assist Mrs H 
following Mr Hs death. He highlighted that Mrs H had enlisted the help of the CAB in 
January and April 2021, but it doesnt appear anything was done in response. In addition, in 
February and March 2021 Mrs H had asked for changes to be made to the mortgage/MCA 
arrangements, which would have required an income and expenditure exercise, but the 
importance of providing that information didnt seem to have been highlighted to her. 
In addition, the investigator considered that as Mrs H had said she had no income and was 
unable to make any payments to the mortgage, she should have been referred to a 
specialist team and told to seek independent financial advice. The former didnt happen at 
all, and the latter didnt happen until November 2021.He concluded that this meant that 
interest continued to be charged on the MCA without Mrs H having the ability to address the 
balance above the reserve limit. As such, he recommended that the complaint be upheld 
and redress awarded. 
Mrs H accepted the investigators conclusions. Barclays did not. It set out a timeline of the 
conversations itd had with Mrs H and it considered it had tried to help her. Our investigator 
pointed out that many of the events Barclays was relying on were not corroborated by the 
evidence it had provided. As such, he didnt change his opinion. 
Barclays requested that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. Following it doing so, I 
asked for more information. It provided the contact notes from its collections/arrears 
department, which evidenced more of the contact Barclays had said it had with Mrs H from 
June 2020.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 November 2022, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I have set out some basic details of how the MCA account came into existence and how it 
works. Mrs H has said that Barclays shouldnt have allowed Mr H to continue to use the MCA reserve after he became unemployed. Having reviewed the notes on Barclays 
systems, and it doesnt appear that Mr H told Barclays that he wasnt working prior to the 
end of August 2016, by which time the MCA reserve limit had been reached. I am not aware 
of exactly when Mr H ceased working prior to this, but as Barclays doesnt appear to have 
been told, I cant find it at fault for not having attempted to review Mr and Mrs Hs situation in 
order to attempt to help them manage their finances.
Following that, Mr H and Barclays discussed the MCA and mortgage account regularly until 
his death in 2020. Due to the circumstances of Mr Hs health, Barclays agreed forbearance 
measures to assist the situation. I am satisfied that it acted appropriately during this period. 
The question is, therefore, whether Barclays acted appropriately with Mrs H thereafter.
When our investigator reviewed the complaint Barclays hadnt provided the notes from its 
collections department, which is the department Mrs H was passed to because of the arrears 
on the mortgage and the MCA being over its limit. These notes show that Barclays left it to 
Mrs H to contact it after she informed it of Mr Hs death. Given the circumstances, I dont 
think this was necessarily inappropriate for Barclays to allow Mrs H some time before it 
started talking to her about the mortgage and MCA. 
When Mrs H contacted it in October 2020, she disputed that she was liable for the MCA 
debt. She said she was seeking legal advice and Barclays sent her a copy of the mortgage 
terms and conditions to assist with this process. It also told her that as she was in financial 
difficulties it would need to review her income and expenditure to see what it could do to 
assist her. 
A lender is required to explore ways to assist a consumer in financial difficulties and to 
attempt to resolve the situation, especially if the problem that created the arrears to begin 
with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being resolved. For long-term 
difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such transferring a mortgage from 
capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period of time or 
capitalisation of arrears. However, balanced against that is the lenders obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement is affordable, sustainable and will actually help in the long term, not 
just delay the inevitable. The requirement to try to assist a customer doesnt mean that a 
lender should give a consumer what they want, if it would not be affordable or realistically 
help to resolve the situation.
So it was entirely reasonably that Barclays wanted to assess the situation to see what it 
could do. It did this on two occasions, although it suggested it be done several more times. It 
was established that on Mrs Hs income alone, there was a very significant deficit between 
her income and outgoings, such that there was nothing it could suggest that would help with 
the situation as nothing was affordable. If the income of the relative living with Mrs H was 
taken into consideration, the mortgage was affordable and Barclays may have been able to 
help with arrangements for the arrears and MCA. However, Mrs H didnt get back to 
Barclays to confirm how much the relative would be willing to commit to such an 
arrangement and so it couldnt do anything to assist her. Barclays also recommended on 
numerous occasions that Mrs H seek independent financial advice, as I would expect it to 
do. I am satisfied that Barclays followed an appropriate process to attempt to assist Mrs H, 
but that it was either unable to because of her circumstances or because it was waiting for 
Mrs H to provide information. 
That said, it is clear that Mrs H followed Barclays suggestion that she seek assistance with 
her situation form an independent source, in that the CAB wrote to Barclays on her behalf. 
Several letters were received, but they dont appear to have been acknowledged or dealt 
with. They seem to have been referred to the complaints department due to the complaint 
Mrs H had raised, and nothing happened with them thereafter. I can only conclude this was a service failing as it would have deprived Mrs H of the help and support that she had sought 
out following Barclays recommendation that she do so. I am minded to award £300 
compensation for this failing. 
I am not proposing to uphold the majority of Mrs Hs complaint, but I would encourage her to 
enter into discussions with Barclays to see if a way forward can be agreed. This will require 
her to give it details of her financial situation and, if her relative remains willing to contribute, 
details of that too. I would also remind Barclays that it needs to look at Mrs Hs situation in a 
sympathetic light and do what it can, if anything is possible, to help with the situation.
Barclays accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs H confirmed receipt of the provisional decision, but didnt make any comment on my 
conclusions or provide further evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has reached any further evidence or comments, I see no reason to alter my 
conclusions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mrs H £300 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman