DRN-3606806
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that PrePay Technologies Limited (trading as Monese) wont refund 
transactions that happened as part of an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr H made several payments to who he thought was a legitimate investment broker. 
Hes said he later tried to withdraw his profits from the trading platform, but the broker 
in fact took several payments from his account, totalling £7,000. 
Mr H raised the transactions that formed part of the investment scam with Monese, 
but it declined to refund them. Unhappy with this response, Mr H brought his 
concerns to our service to investigate.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
The starting position under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 is that Mr H is 
liable for authorised payments and Monese is liable for unauthorised payments. 
Its accepted that Mr H authorised three payments in connection with this investment 
scam on 1 October, 5 November and 12 November 2021. So, in line with the PSRs, I 
consider hes liable for these. I also dont think there was anything particularly 
unusual about the payments to suggest that Monese ought to have intervened. And I 
dont consider there was a reasonable prospect of a chargeback claim succeeding. It 
follows that I think Moneses response to decline this aspect of Mr Hs complaint was 
fair. 
Ive gone on to consider the payments on 16 November 2021, which Mr H said he 
didnt make. Given Moneses references to 3D Secure, it seems these payments 
were made by card. 
The PSRs explain that a payment is to be regarded as authorised if Mr H gave his 
consent to it  and that consent must in the form and in accordance with the 
procedure agreed between him and Monese. 
Ive reviewed Moneses terms and conditions to see what the agreed form and 
procedure was for consenting to card payments. They say Mr H can use his card 
online and that he might be asked to complete an additional security step before the 
payment is accepted. They also mention that hell need to authorise a payment using 
a security code. 
So, practically speaking, for the circumstances of these payments, my understanding 
is that Mr H wouldve needed to have used his card details with the merchant and 
approved the payments in his Monese app. 
Mr H explained he was led to believe he was withdrawing money from his trading 
account. He said that he added his card details onto a portal to do this. He also said 
he used remote access on his device so they could help him with the withdrawal. He 
believed thats how they approved the payments. 
Monese has disputed Mr Hs version of events. It said its more likely that Mr H 
approved them himself and this was an investment that didnt work out. 
Having considered this carefully, Im persuaded by Mr Hs testimony. In saying this, I 
have considered that:
oMr H has consistently reported these transactions as unauthorised. Monese 
has highlighted a delay in reporting them. But Mr H explained he tried to call 
several times but couldnt pass security. 
oMr H provided evidence of his interactions with the fraudster that confirm the 
withdrawal request as well as the fraudsters assertion that there was a 
system failure with the withdrawal.
oThe quick succession of the payments and later attempted payments fits with 
what Id expect to see with unauthorised spending. 
oMr Hs testimony is plausible. The remote access couldve allowed someone 
else to complete the payments. I also note from our experience dealing with 
investment scams that Mr Hs experience isnt unique  others have been 
tricked in very similar circumstances. 
It follows that I dont consider Mr H completed the entire form and procedure to 
consent to these payments  instead, I think the fraudster did at least some of these 
steps under the guise they were helping Mr H to withdraw money from his trading 
platform. So Im satisfied the payments on 16 November 2021 were unauthorised. 
So, under the PSRs, Monese is liable for these transactions. Thats unless it can 
show that Mr H failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with the terms of the 
account or keep his personalised security details safe.
Monese hasnt suggested Mr H failed with intent. Equally, I dont think its shown that 
he failed with gross negligence. Ill explain why. 
The fraudster had gone to lengths to build a relationship of trust and expertise with 
Mr H. Theyd already used remote access software to help him invest and shown him 
a fake trading platform. Theyd also allowed him to withdraw some of his profits. In 
these circumstances, I can see why Mr H allowed them remote access to his device 
to help with the withdrawal from the platform  I dont think he was significantly 
careless for doing so. 
I can also understand why Mr H shared his card details  I dont think it sounds 
implausible these would be needed to receive money. 
Ive carefully considered Moneses point that Mr H ought to have stopped the 
conversation and therefore, their remote access, when he saw that the first or second 
payment had left his account, instead of being paid in.Mr H has explained that he was told theyd made a mistake  he recalled they 
sounded genuinely panicked and they said theyd urgently rectify it. Im conscious 
that its easy to be critical of Mr Hs actions with the benefit of hindsight. But Mr H 
was acting in the moment, and at this stage, he still believed he was dealing with his 
trusted broker who returned profits to him before. I can also see how, in a panicked 
situation, Mr H might have focused on working with them to get his money back, as 
opposed to reflecting on the risk hed lose more money. 
It follows that I dont think his actions fell so far below what a reasonable person 
wouldve done that he failed with gross negligence. So I conclude Mr H isnt liable for 
the unauthorised transactions and Monese need to put things right  by refunding his 
losses from these unauthorised transactions alongside interest to compensate him 
for the time hes been out of pocket.
Monese ought to have refunded these much sooner  and thats caused Mr H to 
worry a lot about his finances. So, in line with our investigators recommendation, I 
also award £100 to reflect his non-financial losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. PrePay Technologies Limited  
must: 
Pay Mr H the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded  I understand this to be £7,000.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay £100 for Mr Hs distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman