DRN-4038458
The complaint
Ms F complains about Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich)s handling of her claim and settlement 
offer, from her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms F had a leak at her home and made a claim with Zurich. It sent a surveyor to assess the 
damage, but when the surveyor asked Ms F questions regarding the amounts, she said it 
would cost to carry out the repairs, she wasnt happy and asked him to leave. The surveyor 
told Zurich he was unable to obtain the information necessary to assess the claim. So, 
Zurich sent another surveyor. 
That surveyor carried out a full assessment, took photographs, and compiled a scope of 
works (SOW). But Ms F told Zurich that she didnt want its contractors to undertake the 
repairs, as she had a previous poor experience with them. So, Zurich asked Ms F to obtain 
three quotations for the repairs. 
Ms F obtained the quotes and submitted them to Zurich. Zurich considered the quotes and 
decided that the lowest costed quote would be used as a basis of settlement. It further 
decided that only certain items on the quote would be settled. This was because it felt that 
those parts were water damaged. 
Zurich initially offered by way of settlement £2,460. But a recalculation found that it shouldve 
offered £2,590, which it agreed to, less the policy excess of £50. 
Ms F wasnt happy with the settlement figure, as she felt that the entire area should be 
covered. Because of this Zurich, offered to either revisit Ms Fs home or conduct a video call 
to try and assess the damage. Neither option, Ms F agreed to. So, she raised a complaint to 
Zurich. 
In its final response, it maintained its offer to revisit or video call Ms F. It accepted that there 
had been some poor service, issues and offered Ms F compensation of £400. Ms F was 
given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She said that having reviewed the 
settlement, Zurich shouldve offered £2,590 (less the excess of £50). She said that there had 
been delay in making the offer and she felt that the compensation of £400 was fair. She also 
said, that if Ms F thought that the entire area should be renovated, then expert evidence 
should be provided that could support the reason why this was the case. 
Zurich accepted the view, Ms F did not. She asked for a decision from an ombudsman, as 
she said that Zurich ought to pay for the full costs of the replacement, either to her or her 
contractor. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, but for much the same reasons as our 
investigator, which I understand is likely to be a disappointment for Ms F, but I hope my 
findings explain why I think this is fair. 
I have reviewed both partys comments. And I think the main issue here is whether Zurich 
was fair in its settlement offer. So, Ive addressed by findings with this in mind.
Ms F said that she had had a previous bad experience with Zurichs contractors and as a 
result Zurich agreed for Ms F to find contractors that she would be happy with to carry out 
the repairs. Zurich asked for quotes of the work that these contractors proposed to do. All of 
this I think was fair. 
Ms F obtained three quotations, with varying estimates. From the evidence, it is clear that 
Zurich discounted two of the quotes as it felt that they were too excessive. It did though 
consider one quote out of the three. This quote was compared to the SOW that Zurich had 
obtained from the surveyor who was able to complete an assessment of the damage.
It should be noted that Insurers, like Zurich, are able to achieve substantial discounts on 
goods and services from contractors, due to the high volume of work that it passes to them. 
So, its not unusual for insurers to settle claims at costs, that are far lower than those 
policyholders are able to get. 
Zurich agreed to pay for around seven items on Ms Fs lowest quote. It did this as it said 
those items were directly affected by the leak. 
Ms F disagreed and said that here contractor told her that the entire area was affected by 
the leak and as such Zurich ought to settle the claim by paying for the entire area to be 
renovated. But the purpose of insurance policies are to provide cover for insured perils such 
as an escape of water. And that cover puts the policyholder back into the pre-loss position. It 
does not provide cover for betterment. 
I have reviewed both the SOW and the quote that Ms F provided. And I think that Zurich was 
reasonable to settle the claim on the work that matched its surveyors SOW to the quote 
from Ms Fs contractor. Ms F was asked to provide further evidence from her contractor 
(which could be a report) as to why the entire area would need to be restored. This wasnt 
provided. Consequently, there is no other independent evidence for me to consider, that is 
able to refute Zurichs settlement offer. And based on the evidence, Im satisfied that Zurich 
was fair to settle the claim with its offer of £2,590 (less £50 excess).
I have next considered the level of compensation offered by Zurich. Zurich offered £400 for 
the poor service that Ms F experienced. Im satisfied that there was delay during the claims 
process, which was avoidable. The delay appeared to have been around the settlement, 
which Zurich revised a few times. I think it could have made the offer to settle sooner and Im 
satisfied that the level of compensation was fair, as it adequately took into consideration, the 
impact of the poor service on Ms F.Putting things right
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, I think Zurich was fair in the settlement offer. 
I think Ms F would have suffered some distress and inconvenience due to the poor service 
issues and I think Zurich was fair and reasonable to offer £400 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Zurich Insurance PLC to settle the claim and pay Ms F £2,590 (less the policy excess of 
£50). 
Zurich Insurance PLC to pay Ms F £400 compensation (if it hasnt done so already) for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Zurich Insurance PLC must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Ms F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest at 8% 
a year simple on the above amount, from the date Ms F accepts my final decision, until it is 
paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman