DRN-3815041
The complaint
Mr S complains that My Policy Ltd charged him £75 when he cancelled his telematics motor 
insurance policy. He wants a refund. 
What happened
Mr S applied for a policy through an online comparison site. He selected a policy with My 
Policy Ltd. But he said he hadnt understood that it would require a Black Box to be fitted to 
his car. So he said he cancelled the policy immediately by sending an online form. But My 
Policy Ltd still charged him its £75 cancellation fee and a charge for one day on cover. Mr S 
thought the cancellation fee was unfair. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
policy was described as a telematics policy. She thought Mr S had agreed to this and to My 
Policy Ltds terms and conditions during his online journey to buy the policy. She thought the 
£75 fee for cancellation within the first 14 days was clearly stated in the terms and 
conditions. She thought it was reasonable. And so she thought it was fair and reasonable for 
My Policy Ltd to apply it.  
Mr S replied that taking out the policy had been a genuine mistake and he thought the 
charge was unfair. Mr S asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S feels unfairly treated as he cancelled the policy immediately after 
taking it out. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr S said it wasnt clear that he was buying a telematics policy. But I can see from his online 
journey that when he was transferred to My Policy Ltds website he had to agree that he 
understood that he was buying a telematics policy. And there was also an image of the box 
that would have to be connected to his car. So Im satisfied that this was made reasonably 
clear to him so that he could make an informed decision about the purchase. 
Mr S said he realised his mistake within 30 minutes of buying the policy. This was to start the 
next day. He said he then emailed to cancel the policy. But this wasnt acted on by My Policy 
Ltd before the policy started as hed sent the email outside of working hours. 
I think My Policy Ltds office hours are clearly stated on its website. And I think that the terms 
and conditions clearly state that cancellations would only be processed Monday to Friday 
before 16.30. So I think Mr S should have reasonably known that his cancellation request 
wouldnt be processed outside of office hours. So Im satisfied that My Policy Ltd didnt do 
anything wrong by not acting on his email. 
Mr S then called My Policy Ltd the next day, but the policy had already started. I can see that 
the cancellation terms are set out in the telematics terms and conditions. And these state 
that a £75 fee would be charged for My Policy Ltds administration costs when the policy was 
cancelled within 14 days. As the Investigator has explained, we cant tell businesses what 
they can charge for their services. But I think this a reasonable fee as its in keeping with 
others Ive seen. 
And so I think My Policy Ltd has acted in keeping with the policys terms and conditions, and 
fairly and reasonably, in applying the cancellation charge. And. As Mr S was covered for one 
day, I think it also fairly applied the insurers pro-rata charge for time on cover. So I dont 
require My Policy Ltd to pay Mr S any refund.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman