DRN-2373478
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) prevented her from being
able to make her scheduled repayments. This resulted in her account being defaulted and
then passed to a collections team.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought Miss H lost out as a result of Draftys lack of communication during 
the lockdown due to Covid-19.  Drafty didnt respond to the adjudicators opinion. The 
complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining why Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. A copy 
of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part of 
this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
Miss H was initially approved an open-ended facility with a £300 credit limit in November
2018. This was a running credit account where a consumer could request funds up to their
credit limit. Miss Hs credit limit was increased to £580 in March 2019.
It appears that there is an outstanding balance on Miss Hs account of £584.59 which was
passed to collections in May 2020.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Hs complaint. He thought Miss H was unable to
make payments through no fault of her own. Whilst the adjudicator understood that Drafty
had experienced problems as a result of Covid-19, he didnt think Miss H should have lost
out as a result of this.
The adjudicator thought Drafty should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs
credit file as a result of her inability to make her payments in January and February 2020.
And that Drafty should enter into a suitable payment arrangement with Miss H which allowed
her to repay what she owed.
It appears that Miss H agreed with the adjudicators opinion. Drafty didnt respond so I dont
know what it thinks about it.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im still intending to
uphold Miss Hs complaint. But I think Drafty should do more to put Miss H back in the
position she would have been in, had she been able to discuss her account with the lender.
To begin with, Miss H s complaint is that she tried to pay some of her missed repayments
but was unable to get in contact with Drafty.
Around 28 March 2020, which was during the lockdown due to Covid-19, Miss H emailed
Drafty to discuss making her repayments as her account had been suspended due to
several missed payments. Drafty acknowledged Miss Hs email and explained she could
expect to hear from it within two business days. But it doesnt appear that Drafty did this.
Within the following two weeks, Miss H has provided screenshots of her phone calls to
Drafty showing she had tried to contact Drafty on 13 separate occasions. Although, what I
would point out is that Drafty had previously confirmed that its call centre was closed. But,
this persuades me that Miss H was trying to actively resolve her arrears issue.
Miss H also followed this up with five emails to Drafty. These emails explained that she was
unable to pay online, and that Drafty hadnt responded to her requests for assistance. It
seems that Miss H was unable to make her repayments online as her account had been
suspended.
Subsequently, Drafty issued a Notice of Default in April 2020, and Miss Hs account was
terminated and passed to a collections agency with an outstanding balance of £584.59.
I acknowledge that Drafty had to close its call centre due to Covid-19, and that this was out
of its control. But I am persuaded that Miss H was actively trying to make her repayments to
settle her outstanding balance and she tried to prevent her account from defaulting. But she
wasnt able to, and in those circumstances, I dont consider it fair or reasonable that Miss H
should lose out due to what has happened.
Although we have limited information about the reasons why Miss H couldnt make her
payment online, its more likely than not that this was due to her account being suspended.
But it seems that Drafty didnt respond to Miss Hs requests for assistance for a significant
amount of time, even though it had explained she could expect to hear from it within two
business days.
Miss H was aware she was in arrears and she tried to get her repayments sorted out. And
Im persuaded that Miss H would have made a payment to her outstanding balance had she
received assistance from Drafty.
Equally, Miss H has spent a lot of time in trying to get this matter resolved, including sending
several emails. In addition, I dont doubt it was worrying for Miss H to be told her account
had defaulted when she was making every effort to make the payments and bring the
account up to date. So, I think Drafty should pay Miss H the sum of £150 to recognise the
trouble and upset Miss H has clearly experienced as a result of this problem.
I acknowledge that Miss H was already in arrears when she contacted Drafty on 28 March
2020. So Drafty needs to effectively, reset the account and put it back into the same position 
it wouldve been had there not been any repayment problems at the end of March 2020. And
this means Drafty should allow Miss H to continue using her facility (if she wishes to and it is
possible to allow this) as if these repayment problems hadnt happened.In order to put things right, I think Drafty should remove any interest, fees and charges that
have been added to the outstanding balance from 28 March 2020 until it settles the
complaint. And it should remove any adverse information applied to Miss Hs credit file since
28 March 2020 as a result of Drafty not responding to her.
If Miss H can afford to return to the normal contractual payments, then she should. But if she
is not in a position to do this, then Drafty and Miss H should discuss a mutually agreeable
way forward. In the circumstances of Miss Hs case, I think a fair and reasonable outcome is
for Drafty to take back the account from the collections agency and agree a satisfactory
repayment plan with Miss H if there is still an outstanding balance. I would like to remind
Drafty of its obligations to treat Miss H fairly if this needs to happen.
But I also dont think it would be unreasonable if Drafty records adverse information on 
Miss Hs credit file (if a repayment plan is needed) as it needs to reflect the way Miss H has 
ran her account. Therefore, if there are still arrears on Miss Hs account, and she is not in a
position to clear the balance, this could still mean that adverse information is recorded on
her credit file. But it wont be as a result of the difficulties outlined above from 28 March
2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Drafty has agreed with my provisional decision and had made an offer to settle the 
complaint. Miss H appears to have agreed with my provisional decision, but she has 
provided the following information for me to consider:
She has now set up a repayment plan with the third party  Miss H says she is 
paying £50 and
Miss H would like Drafty to take this back from them and make it their responsibility.
Taking into account the information provided by Miss H, it appears that she is making 
payments to a third party of £50 a month. So, she will pay the adjusted outstanding balance 
in a reasonable period of time  as long as Miss H sticks to the terms of the arrangement.  
Drafty has made an offer to settle the complaint. It has agreed to refund any interest and 
charges applied to Miss Hs account since 28 March 2020, and it will remove any adverse 
information recorded on Miss Hs credit file from this date. In addition to this, Drafty will pay 
Miss H £150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Drafty says it will pay the £150 to the account that it holds on file for Miss H. If this is account 
is no longer used by Miss H she will need to get in contact with Drafty. 
Drafty has also said it will be happy to agree a repayment plan, and it appears that the 
lender will be dealing with Miss H directly rather than the third-party. So, Drafty will need to 
take into consideration any repayments Miss H has made to the third-party when calculating 
the new outstanding balance.  But I note that Drafty has implied that any repayment plan 
made with Miss H, will be reflected on her credit file.
But I also need to take into consideration that the lender defaulted an account which it 
shouldnt have. It appears that Drafty is not able to, or is unwilling to re-open the facility, so I 
have to think about what the lender should do to ensure that a fair outcome is reached with 
regards to any new information which may need to be reported on Miss Hs credit file.Miss Hs account is now closed (because it was incorrectly defaulted) but there is still an 
outstanding balance. In the individual circumstances of this case, I dont think its fair that 
Miss H is unable to make her contractual repayments because the account cant be 
reinstated. 
Therefore, I think the fairest thing is for Drafty to remove the adverse information it has 
recorded as it has already offered to do. But also that Drafty should only record any new 
adverse information on Miss Hs credit file if the payment arrangement which may need to be 
agreed to is not adhered to. 
Miss H says there is a repayment plan already in place, and it appears that Miss H will have 
repaid the outstanding balance within a fairly short period of time. Because of this, I dont 
think any further information should be recorded on her credit file, unless there is a change 
of circumstances or Miss H doesnt adhere to the arrangement.
So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Take back the account from the collections agency/third party if it is able to do so. 
Otherwise, Drafty will need to work with the third party to achieve the same results as  set 
out below:
Remove from the outstanding balance any interest, fees and charges applied to 
Miss Hs outstanding balance since 28 March 2020 until the complaint is settled. And 
then adjust Miss Hs balance to take into account any payment Miss H may have 
made to the third party; 
Remove any adverse information from Miss Hs credit file as a result of her not being
able to contact Drafty from 28 March 2020; and
If Miss H is in a position to make her normal contractual repayments, then she
should. But if she isnt able to do this, then Drafty needs to agree a satisfactory
repayment plan with Miss H, in order for her to repay the outstanding balance.
If the balance is paid in line with any agreement, then Drafty should not record the 
repayment plan on Miss Hs credit file. If however, Miss H doesnt adhere to the 
repayment plan, than its reasonable that Drafty records an accurate reflection of how 
Miss H is handling her outstanding balance.
Pay Miss H the amount of £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Hs 
complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman