DRN-4481520
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was mis-sold two policies by a predecessor scheme of Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited (Aviva), alongside a mortgage in 1994. One of the policies was a 
decreasing term assurance policy (DTA) and the other was a type of payment protection 
insurance policy (PPI). 
These policies were sold by General Accident to Mr T. However, Aviva, now General 
Accident is part of its group, has accepted responsibility for the complaint. 
Mr T is being represented with this complaint. But for ease, I have referred to all comments 
as those of Mr T. 
What happened
Mr T took out a mortgage in 1994. The mortgage advisor then passed Mr Ts details to an 
advisor at a predecessor scheme of Aviva, to offer advice on a range of products including 
protection.  
Mr T was then sold two policies. The first was a DTA policy, which would provide life cover of 
a decreasing basis. It started on 25 November 1994, it had a term of 25 years for a monthly 
premium of £8.15. It had an initial sum assured of £38,000. 
The second policy was a PPI policy which would protect Mr Ts mortgage payments in the 
event he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment (ASU). 
It appears both policies lapsed in November 2000, which is when Mr T re-mortgaged.
Mr T first complained that the policies had been mis-sold to him, in August 2019. He said 
that hed been pressured into taking the policies out and that he was told they were a 
requirement for the borrowing. 
Aviva took some time to respond to Mr T. Initially they said werent able to locate any 
information on the policies due to the time that had passed. They eventually responded but 
didnt uphold the complaints. They said that the DTA had been a suitable recommendation 
as it matched and protected the terms of his mortgage. They said the ASU PPI policy 
provided an appropriate benefit and Mr T was under no obligation to take it out. They also 
offered Mr T £150 for the time it had taken to look into it and the errors when first doing so, 
which Mr T accepted. 
Mr T remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. 
Our investigator looked into but didnt think there was anything wrong with the sale of either 
policy. She said there wasnt sufficient evidence to conclude they were obligatory and she 
thought they were suitable for Mr Ts needs and circumstances at the time. 
Mr T didnt accept this. He maintained that he was required to take both policies out to 
secure the borrowing. He also pointed at other decisions this service had reached as 
examples as to why his complaint should be upheld. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I know this will be 
very disappointing for Mr T but let me explain why. 
Mr T is frustrated, and it is obviously disappointing, that Aviva are unable to provide more 
information regarding the sale of the policies. However, they are only expected to hold 
details of policies which are still in force, not for policies which have lapsed more than six 
years ago. Therefore, Aviva have done nothing wrong in not having more documentation or 
evidence than they do from 1994.  
Mr T has provided details of other cases this service has decided on, in similar 
circumstances. Whilst I am aware of them and the decisions reached, each case is decided 
on its own merits. 
The event that Mr T has complained about is insurance intermediation, that is, the 
marketing, advising and selling of insurance, etc. This did not become a regulated activity 
until 14 January 2005.
At the point these policies were recommended by the representative of General Accident 
and sold to Mr T, General Accident may also have been a voluntary member of another 
former scheme, the MCCB. This gave further limited regulatory requirements when giving 
advice about term assurance and payment protection policies, where they were ancillary to 
advice and recommendations for mortgages. I cant be sure if they were a member of this 
scheme at the time of these sales. Aviva arent able to tell us and the database of scheme 
members didnt begin until 1998. However, based on our experience of the time, we believe 
most lenders and brokers were signed up and I am satisfied on a balance of probabilities 
they were and the Mortgage Code applied to them. 
However, the Mortgage Code related primarily to regulatory rules for mortgage lenders, 
providing a wide scope for complaints under that scheme. In respect of complaints about 
IFAs and intermediaries (including the suitability of term assurance and payment protection 
insurance recommendations as complained about here), the MCCB restricted regulation to 
direct Mortgage Code breaches. 
The only conditions I can therefore consider, are under section 3.2 of the code. The advisor 
needed to state if it was a condition of the mortgage to take the insurance out. They also 
needed to give a general description of any costs, fees, or other charges. This includes 
insurance premiums. 
I havent been provided with anything to conclude that these policies were required, for Mr T 
to secure the lending. Mr T himself hasnt said that he had to take the policies out. Instead 
that he was led to believe that it might affect his chances of securing the borrowing if he 
didnt. 
I am also satisfied with the point raised by Aviva, that the advisor who sold these policies did 
not sell the mortgage or work for the lender. So, I dont believe he could have made them a 
requirement. Further, we have been provided with a document signed by Mr T at the point of sale, which says it was to provide a record of the basis of the mortgage. This has No 
written, next to compulsory insurance. This again suggests to me that the policy wasnt 
compulsory and that Mr T knew this. 
I can also see that Mr T declined a recommended buyers costs protection policy, which 
shows he was aware he didnt need to go ahead with all the recommendations. The 
paperwork we have also shows that a buildings insurance policy was a requirement, which 
suggests the documents would have said if the DTA and PPI were required. I am further 
satisfied regarding this, as the policies were recommended some time after the sale of the 
mortgage. With a referral being given from the mortgage advisor. Because of these reasons, 
I am satisfied that point one under the Mortgage Code hasnt been broken. I dont believe 
the policies were required and I dont believe Mr T was told they were. 
The next requirement was to make clear the costs, fees and charges (including premiums). 
Ive looked at how these were set out to Mr T. Ive seen the DTA policy schedule which 
clearly sets out an £8.15 monthly premium. This correlates with the statements provided by 
Mr T. I also have a copy of the ASU PPI schedule and it sets out a monthly premium of 
£15.60 before tax. Again, this correlates with the debits shown in Mr Ts bank statements. 
Mr T has said argued that there was commission taken from these premiums and from the 
sale, which wasnt disclosed, and he believes this constitutes a breach of the code. 
However, I havent been provided with anything to show there was any commission or how 
much it was. Therefore, there isnt sufficient evidence for me to be able to say there was a 
breach of the second bullet point quoted from the Mortgage Code above. Overall, I think the 
premiums and charged for both of these policies were clearly set out.
In summary, I dont uphold this complaint on the limited basis that I can consider. I havent 
seen enough to safely conclude that there was a breach of the Mortgage Code. I dont 
believe the policies were a condition of the borrowing and I havent seen enough to conclude 
that any fees or charges werent made clear.
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons stated above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman