DRN-2204830
The complaint
Mr D complains that Capital One (Europe) plc, trading as Capital One, shouldnt have 
approved his credit card application because of his poor credit history and his gambling 
addiction.
What happened
Mr D applied for a credit card with Capital One, and in May 2017 the application was 
accepted with a credit limit of £200. 
Mr D missed the minimum payments required from May 2018 and the balance exceeded the 
credit limit due to default fees and interest. In late 2018, Capital One defaulted the account. 
And the following August, Capital One sold the account to another business.
In November 2018, Mr D complained to Capital One that they had harassed him when 
attempting to arrange a payment plan. Mr D said they shouldve frozen interest and charges 
to the account when they became aware of his financial problems.
Capital One responded to this complaint on 5 December 2018. They explained why the fees 
and interest had been applied to his account and agreed to stop all further collection calls to 
him. Their final response told Mr D that he had six months from the date of the response to 
bring the complaint to our service.
Mr D didnt raise this complaint with our service within six months of the final response. 
However, he did contact us in December 2019 to complain that Capital One shouldnt have 
approved his credit card. Mr D says that if they had carried out more checks, they wouldve 
seen he had multiple payday or short-term loans, his credit rating was poor, and he had a 
gambling addiction.
We forwarded Mr Ds new complaint to Capital One in March 2020, and they provided their 
final response the following month. Capital One said their checks didnt show any visible 
adverse credit information or Notice of Corrections that indicated Mr D had a gambling 
problem. They said that based on Mr Ds declaration that he earned £40,000 per annum, it 
considered a credit card with a £200 limit was affordable.
Mr D didnt agree with Capital One and asked this service to investigate his complaints.
Although Mr D said he had adverse credit history, our investigator explained that because 
these had occurred in early 2016, it wasnt unreasonable that after 12 months with no 
apparent recurrence, Capital One offered Mr D a credit card. Our investigator thought 
Capital One werent aware of Mr Ds gambling addiction when they issued the card, and that 
they wouldnt reasonably have known this from the card activity. The investigator thought 
Capital One had done nothing wrong.
Mr D didnt agree with the thoughts of our investigator and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. Mr D said the investigation didnt address the harassment he suffered before 
Capital One issued the default notice. He also said the investigator hadnt addressed his 
complaint that Capital One shouldve frozen interest on the account when they became 
aware of his financial difficulties.
complaints made in November 2018
Mr D says we havent considered the complaint he made in November 2018, but I cant 
decide on these particular issues as they werent included in the complaint form Mr D sent 
us in December 2019. Ive made some preliminary enquiries of Capital One and Mr D 
because Mr D didnt raise these complaints with this office within six months of Capital Ones 
final response.
I will now arrange for the submissions made by Mr D and Capital One to be considered and 
decide whether it is fair and reasonable for us to investigate the complaint from November 
2018. 
However, I will provide my final decision in relation to the complaints Mr D raised in 
December 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
complaint submitted to our service in December 2019
The crux of this complaint is whether Capital One acted reasonably when it accepted Mr Ds 
credit card application. Although I understand Mr D will be disappointed with my decision, I 
will now explain why I believe Capital One didnt act irresponsibly when it offered him a credit 
card.
Capital One needed to check whether Mr D would be able to make payments in a way which 
was sustainable. They also needed to consider things like the amount of credit being applied 
for and the information Mr D provided about his financial situation. There isnt a set list of 
checks, but the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook explains what it considers to 
be reasonable credit worthiness checks (CONC 5.2A).  
I have seen Mr D has provided credit information that shows he had two defaults. These 
defaults were in January and February 2016 and were satisfied at least 12 months before Mr 
Ds application was accepted by Capital One.
Capital One say their decision to offer credit was based on information supplied by Mr D. 
They say they also considered data from credit reference agencies and their own risk 
strategies. Capital One say they completed various checks including affordability and 
indebtedness checks and these showed no other accounts were visible on Mr Ds credit file. 
Capital One say Mr D met their eligibility criteria and his declared income of £40,000 per 
annum, was enough to afford the minimum payments on the card. 
I have seen the data Capital One used. Its for Capital One to decide who they give credit to 
and on what basis. What Id expect is for Capital One to carry out proportionate checks 
before they do so, and based on the information available to me, Im satisfied they did. 
Capital One are entitled to rely on the declarations by Mr D.
Mr D says that when he applied for the credit card Capital One shouldve been aware of his 
gambling problem. However, Mr D didnt tell them of his addiction until he complained in 
March 2020. I havent seen any evidence to support Mr Ds view that Capital One would reasonably have known about this. I have seen Mr Ds annual card statement from May 
2017 until May 2018, and this records only one £20.00 cash type transaction. The rest of the 
spending was on retail purchases, so it is unlikely that Capital One wouldve associated the 
activity on the card with gambling transactions.
I therefore dont agree that Capital One would reasonably have been aware of Mr Ds 
gambling problem until he told them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Capital One 
(Europe) plc, trading as Capital One to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman