DRN-1978277
The complaint
Mr S from Company M complained about Quotemetoday.co.uk Ltd (QMT). He isnt happy 
about the way it set up his commercial insurance policy and wants a full refund.
   
What happened
Mr S took out a commercial insurance policy through QMT but felt that it didnt set up the 
policy correctly and he wasnt provided with the correct level of cover. 
Mr S wanted the policy set up in his company name and to include stock cover as well as 
road risk cover. The policy went on to be cancelled and Mr S complained to QMT and 
arranged a charge back of premium as he felt that it didnt provide him with the cover he 
requested. But QMT didnt really respond so Mr S complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and partly upheld his complaint. He thought that 
QMT didnt explain things well enough to Mr S or look to ensure he had the cover he 
requested. So, he thought that QMT should only charge time on cover and that it should pay 
£200 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
As QMT didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the complaint should be partly upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to QMT, but Ill explain why. I dont propose to go over all the finer details of 
the complaint which are well known to both sides, but Ill focus on the key issue of whether 
the policy was set up correctly.
Although I can understand why QMT are frustrated by the investigators position I agree that 
it couldve been clearer in its communications with Mr S about the level of cover provided. 
He contacted QMT a while before his policy was due to renew and was clear about the level 
of cover he required. QMT shouldve ensured that it concluded whether it was able to 
provide the cover Mr S required at an earlier stage or, at the very least, ensured that it 
managed his expectations better. 
I say this as it was pretty clear what Mr S wanted and he chased QMT for updates about the 
level of cover with little response. So I can understand why Mr S presumed he would get the 
cover he required, and it mustve been disappointing for him to be told he wouldnt get cover 
when he expected to. And had it have managed Mr S expectations about this I think it is 
likely that he wouldve taken his business elsewhere and got the required cover - just as he 
did at a later stage when he realised that QMT couldnt arrange the cover he required.
I know QMT feel that it clearly advised Mr S about the level of cover provided, but I dont 
think it was clear enough when the policy was taken out. I say this as Mr S clearly wanted 
stock cover alongside his road risk cover and was very clear about his requirements. And I 
know Mr S has arranged a charge back for the full amount, but he was  on cover for a short 
period and had he have needed to claim under the road risk policy then he would have been 
insured. 
Given all of this I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Mr S only to be charged time on cover. Im not sure if Mr S was successful in 
his chargeback or not but Ill leave QMT to finalise the amount he owes directly.
Finally, I agree that Mr S and M have been put to a fair degree of inconvenience in 
advancing all of this and not being provided with the level of cover that was required. And 
QMT couldve been clearer and more pro-active in responding to Mr S various chases when 
he was looking to ensure cover was correct. So, I agree that £200 compensation seems fair 
in the circumstances. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons outlined above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require 
Quotemetoday.co.uk Ltd to only charge for time on cover and pay £200 compensation.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman