DRN-1825771
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(Mercedes-Benz FS) applied after he returned a car acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement.
What happened
Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement for a car with Mercedes-Benz FS in 2016. He 
returned the car in 2019, at which point Mercedes-Benz FS asked him to pay £490 for 
damages outside fair wear and tear. This was made up of £230 for a tyre and £260 for a 
dent caused to the body of the car. 
Mr M disputed those charges. He said that upon returning the car he was told that it was in 
good enough condition to be put straight on the forecourt. He also said that the damage to 
the body was acceptable in line with Mercedes-Benz FS return standards, and that hed had 
an independent garage check his tyres just days before, where he was told they were of an 
acceptable standard. He raised a complaint with Mercedes-Benz FS.
Mercedes-Benz FS didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that its return standards said that 
chips or scratching which had penetrated the basecoat  as the dent on Mr Ms car had - 
were not acceptable. It also said that Mr M had signed an appraisal on returning the car, 
which notes that both from tyres were bald on the outer edges. 
Unhappy with Mercedes-Benz FSs response, Mr M raised a complaint with our service. He 
reiterated that hed had an independent tyre check days before returning the car, and that 
the appraisal Mercedes-Benz FS referred to had noted the tyre depths on the outer edges of 
the tyre only. He also said that he believed the dent to have been an acceptable size to not 
warrant a charge, that he was not given an opportunity to fix the issues and that Mercedes-
Benz FS finance had not seen the car  just the dealership that he returned the car to, which 
had told him the car was in an excellent condition. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although she had considered the 
points Mr M had made about everything that happened, overall she found that Mercedes-
Benz FS had adequately demonstrated that the charges had been applied in line with both 
its return standards as well as industry guidance. 
Mr M didnt agree. He questioned the accuracy and reliability of the statements 
Mercedes-Benz FS had made. He wasnt happy with being charged for damage after being 
given the impression that the car was in excellent condition when inspected. He also pointed 
out that he would have been able to obtain a tyre cheaper than the amount hed been 
charged for and questioned whether the repair Mercedes-Benz FS charged for the dent was 
necessary, asking to see evidence that it was carried out. 
Our investigator didnt think that the points Mr M had raised caused her to reconsider her 
position. Whilst she wasnt able to see whether the repairs Mr M has asked about had been 
completed, she was satisfied that the amounts Mercedes-Benz FS had charged were fair. 
She acknowledged Mr Ms concerns about the inspection process and suggested he should 
take those up with the dealership directly. But ultimately concluded that Mercedes-Benz FS 
acted fairly by deciding how much it should charge based on the appraisal the dealership 
had completed.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans review, so the case has been passed to 
me to decide what should happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for the same reasons. 
Ill explain why.
This complaint is in relation to a car Mr M acquired under a hire purchase agreement. Its a 
regulated finance agreement and we have the power to look into a complaint about it. Mr Ms 
agreement set out that he needed to maintain the car in line with Mercedes-Benz FSs 
vehicle return standards. It said that Mr M would pay for the cost of necessary repairs, and 
that Mercedes-Benz FS could choose whether or not to complete those repairs. 
In determining whether its fair for Mercedes-Benz FS to apply the charges it has, Im 
required to take into account relevant law and industry guidance. Ultimately though, Ill base 
my decision on what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome. 
In charging Mr M, Mercedes-Benz FS has relied on an inspection report which was 
completed  and signed by Mr M to say that he agreed with it  when the car was returned. It 
also relied on a video of the car detailing the damage, which was filmed after the inspection. 
Ive given careful consideration to these.
The inspection report Mercedes-Benz FS relied on isnt particularly detailed. But it does note 
the depth of all four tyres (the tyre in question being noted as 1.2mm), say that both front 
tyres are bald on the outer edge and show that theres a dent on the bodywork (represented 
by a D in the same place as the dent). 
 
Our investigator said that for a tyre to be considered roadworthy, it needs to have 1.6mm of 
tread across 75% of the tyre. This is the standard set out by relevant industry guidance 
issued by The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). That guidance sets 
out what is considered beyond wear and tear. With specific reference to tyres, it says that 
they should meet minimum legal requirements. The Mercedes-Benz FS return standards 
which Mr Ms agreement refers to also uses this standard.
Mr M has argued that the measurements noted on the inspection report was at the outer 
edge only, not across 75% of the tyre. I find it improbable that was the case, or that Mr M 
was given that impression as the document says the outer walls are bald. So I think that the 
measurement is likely to be across the breadth of the tyre. In any case, the video Mercedes-
Benz FS has provided shows that the tyre in question has worn down to its wear bars (bars 
inset into the tyres tread commonly set at 1.6mm to give an indication that the tread of the 
tyre has reached its legal limit). Mercedes-Benz FS also told us the tyre in question was 
replaced in before being presented for an MOT.Given what Ive said above, I think it likely the depth of the tyre tread was 1.2mm across 
75% of the tyre. Even if that was in doubt, I can see from the video that the most it could 
have been was 1.6mm as it had worn to the wear indicator bars. So, taking into account that 
the tyre was either at or beyond the legal limit and balding on one side, Im satisfied that it 
would have had a material effect on the vehicles value as it stood. Im also satisfied that 
Mercedes-Benz FS likely wouldnt have replaced the tyre before an MOT if it hadnt been 
necessary. As such, I think it was fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz FS to charge Mr M 
for the cost of a replacement.
Ive taken into account the points Mr M has made about the third party inspection of the tyres 
he had before returning the car, and that Mercedes-Benz FS didnt give him the opportunity 
to put it right. I dont doubt that Mr M commissioned the tyre inspection and was told they 
were of a satisfactory depth and condition, but Im also satisfied, based on the evidence that 
Mercedes-Benz FS has provided, that was not the case at the point the car was returned. 
Im also satisfied that the condition of the tyres and the standards which needed to be met 
wouldve been reasonably available to Mr M before returning the car, so, I dont agree that 
he was deprived of an opportunity to replace them. 
Mr Ms questioned the price of the tyre Mercedes-Benz FS has charged him for, commenting 
that it can be sourced for a cheaper price elsewhere. But as our investigator pointed out, 
Mercedes-Benz FS isnt under an obligation to source the best price available and taking 
into account the specification of the tyre and the price it has charged, I dont think its done 
anything wrong in this respect. 
In relation to the dent Mercedes-Benz FS has charged for, from what hes said I think that 
Mr M agrees a dent is present, but he disputes that the damage is beyond fair wear and tear. 
The spirit of the test that both BVRLA guidance and Mercedes-Benz FS return standards set 
out is that dents, chips or scratches which break the surface of the paint are not acceptable. 
I think its clear from the video that Mercedes-Benz FS has provided that the dent in question 
has gone through the paint (which is blue) and into the primer (which seems grey). As such, 
I think it fair that Mercedes-Benz FS has applied a charge for this damage. 
Mr M has questioned the fairness of the cost that Mercedes-Benz FS has attributed to this 
damage - £260. Our investigator accepted Mercedes-Benz FSs explanation that this cost is 
representative of the whole panel being repainted as the damage is right in the middle of it. 
All things considered, I agree that this is a reasonable explanation behind the cost, so I dont 
think its unfair for Mercedes-Benz FS to charge it.
Lastly, our investigator suggested that Mr M take up his concerns around the inspection 
process with the dealership which conducted the appraisal. However, in the circumstances 
the dealership appears to have been acting as an agent for Mercedes-Benz FS, so issues 
Mr M may have had with that process can be considered as part of this complaint. Overall 
the investigator thought that it was fair for Mercedes-Benz FS to rely on the appraisal and 
video that it had been provided. I can see why Mr M would be disappointed to be told the car 
he had returned was in excellent condition  and the video does compliment its over all 
condition. But that doesnt mean that it didnt feature damage which Mercedes-Benz FS 
could fairly and reasonably charge for. So, overall, I find that Mercedes-Benz FS has not 
acted unfairly or improperly. My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman