DRN-1292583
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that his account with Barclays Bank UK PLC has been wrongly closed. He 
also complains about an incident in branch, and about how Barclays staff have treated him 
during the handling of his complaint and account closure. 
What happened
In late September 2019 Mr R went into a Barclays Branch to withdraw cash. Mr R became 
unhappy at waiting what he says was 20 minutes or so while the customer in front of him 
spoke to the staff member at the till. Mr R said the customer and branch staff member were 
discussing personal matters. Mr R took photos of the queue in the bank and also spoke to 
the customer at the till and asked the customer not to hold up the queue. Mr R says the 
customer took exception to this and spoke back to him. 
Mr R then complained to the bank, by telephone and in writing, about the incident in branch. 
He was unhappy with an interaction he had with one of Barclays complaints team. He says 
that the staff member described him as confrontational during the branch incident, which he 
didnt think was fair or right. He also says he was called a racist in the branch. 
On 4 October 2019 Barclays wrote to Mr R saying that it had decided to close his account(s) 
on 5 December. It said the closure was in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
Shortly afterwards Mr R contacted our service to complain about the closure of the account 
which he thought was based on the incident in the branch.
Our investigator considered information provided by Mr R and Barclays. To summarise, she 
thought the closure of the account was in line with the terms and conditions and that 
Barclays didnt have to give Mr R reasons. She said she appreciated Mr Rs perspective 
about the incident in branch. But she didnt agree that he was forced to speak to another 
customer. She explained that it wasnt the role of our service to tell Barclays how to conduct 
its business. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view. He wrote to our service quite a few times after 
he received it, giving comments on his dealings with Barclays both at the time of the incident 
and afterwards. He said that hed now been told the reason the account was closed was that 
he was threatening and abusive. He added that our investigator hadnt dealt with those 
aspects of his complaint which concerned his dealings with Barclays after the incident and 
hadnt addressed that he felt his character had been defamed by Barclays staff members by 
being called racist, confrontational and threatening.
The complaint then came to me for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no doubt Mr R feels very strongly about his dealings with Barclays, and that it shouldnt 
have closed his account. Thats understandable. But Im afraid Im going to have to 
disappoint him, as Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do so I 
should say that while Ive read the whole file carefully, Ill only mention those things I need to 
in order to resolve the complaint fairly and reasonably. 
Mr Rs initial concern in bringing his complaint to us was that Barclays had closed his 
account without giving a reason, and unfairly. He thought it was to do with an incident in 
branch in September 2019.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions that apply to the Barclays account. Barclays is 
entitled to close an account by giving at least two months notice. 
As Ive noted in the background, Barclays wrote to Mr R on 4 October 2019, saying his 
account(s) would be closed on 5 December. I understand that the account has now been 
closed. Im not going to tell Barclays to re-open the account as Im satisfied that Barclays 
gave Mr R two months notice of its closure.
When Mr R brought his complaint to us he said he hadnt been given a reason for the 
account closure, but thought it was linked to the incident in branch in September. I 
understand that Mr R mustve found it very frustrating not to have been given a reason for 
the closure. But as long as Barclays gave the required notice, which it did, it wasnt required 
to give a reason. 
I understand that since bringing his complaint to our service Mr R has been given a reason 
that he disagrees with. Im sorry to hear that. But since Barclays was entitled to close the 
account, Im not going to tell Barclays to re-open it. Im sorry to disappoint him. 
Mr R is also unhappy about the incident in the branch in September 2019. He feels he was 
forced to talk directly to another customer because he had to wait for what was to him an 
unacceptable time. There is a difference of opinion as to how many tills were open and the 
number of staff serving customers. Mr R clearly felt irritated on the day at what he felt was 
poor service and unnecessary delay. But I cant agree that it was necessary for Mr R to deal 
directly with another customer, although I appreciate Mr R feels differently. 
Mr R has raised a number of issues concerning his dealings with members of Barclays in 
relation to his complaint. I dont doubt that he feels his character has been besmirched, and 
that he's been defamed. But Im not able to decide issues relating to complaint handling by 
Barclays, as our service doesn't have the power to do so. Im sorry to disappoint him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman