DRN-3346376
The complaint and what happened
Mrs S complains The Co-operative Bank Plc wont reimburse money she lost when she says 
she fell victim to a scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
On 28 March 2018, the bank called Mrs S after it stopped a payment being made to a 
trader. It was a binary options trader, and the bank told Mrs S about checking the 
trader was regulated before proceeding. On 3 April 2018, Mrs S called back, and said 
she was going to ask for a refund as she believed it was a scam. 
On the same day she started to send money to another trader  Greenfields Capital 
 who had used a well-known television programme as part of its promotion. Over 
the month of April 2018, Mrs S sent over £50,000 to the trader. She also received 
back a total of £3,600 from her investment. 
The bank paused the final payment made of £7,000.  Its records show it spoke with 
Mrs S, and advised her the trader wasnt regulated. They also show that Mrs S was 
aware of the risks and had already had several conversations with the bank about 
trading and she wanted to continue making the payment. The bank informed her she 
would be responsible for any losses, which she understood. 
In July 2018, Mrs S wanted to raise a chargeback claim as she hadnt been provided 
with the service. The bank advised her on the information it would need, including 
screen shots of the trading account and balances. Mrs S didnt revert to the bank 
until May 2019, when she was told she was too late to raise a chargeback claim.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied the 
chargeback had been dealt with fairly. And as the bank had tried to intervene in a 
payment but Mrs S wanted to continue, she didnt think an earlier intervention would 
have made a difference. 
Mrs S has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. She believes the 
bank ought to have contacted the joint account holder or closed the account 
altogether rather than allowing the payment. And she doesnt believe an earlier 
discussion about another trader is relevant. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of this 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the ultimate conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme run by card issuers  in this case 
Visa  whereby Visa will ultimately arbitrate on disputes between a merchant and a 
customer if it cannot be resolved between them. There are rules to the scheme, set 
by Visa, which means there are limited grounds and limited time in which to make a 
chargeback claim. Mrs S initially tried to raise a chargeback in July 2018. She was 
told what she would need to do and what evidence to provide. She didnt revert to the 
bank until May 2019. I agree with the bank that by this time she was too late to make 
a chargeback claim. I therefore dont find it was acting unfairly or unreasonably by 
not processing the chargeback when it had no prospects of success. 
Banks and other payments services providers do have a duty to protect customers 
from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. I can see that the bank did intervene in a 
payment to another trading business on 29 March 2018. And the records show 
discussions were had and Mrs R advised on what she needed to do to check the 
trader was legitimate. I accept this was a different trader to the one that ultimately 
scammed Mrs S. But given the very close proximity to the first payment made to 
Greenfields, just a few days later, I consider it fair I take this into account. And Im 
mindful the day of making the first payment to Greenfields, was also the very same 
day that Mrs S realised she was being scammed by the first business, yet it doesnt 
appear she paused or carried out any of her own checks into it.  
In the event, the bank did intervene in the final payment. The banks records show 
Mrs S acknowledged the previous discussions she had about trading and the risks 
associated with that. And it would seem the bank went further than we would expect 
it to, and researched Greenfields for her and told Mrs S it wasnt regulated. Yet Mrs S 
was adamant she wanted to go ahead. Im not persuaded an earlier intervention 
would have elicited a different response. Im mindful that statements show this wasnt 
the only trading business Mrs S was transacting with. So it would appear this was 
something Mrs S was used to doing, or really wanted to do. And she did so despite 
warnings given and education around how to protect herself.
It has been suggested that the joint account holder ought to have been contacted or 
the account closed rather than allowing payments to be made. But there was and is 
no requirement for a joint account holder to be contacted in circumstances such as 
this. And closing an account or stopping a properly authorised payment is an extreme 
measure which I wouldnt expect a bank to take lightly. Im not persuaded the 
circumstances here warranted such action. It follows I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman