DRN-2296532
The complaint
Miss C and Mr K complain that Accord Mortgages Limited charged them for a valuation even 
though it turned down their mortgage application, and even though the valuation was wrong.
What happened
Miss C and Mr K applied to Accord for a mortgage via a broker. They wanted to re-mortgage 
their existing home. Accord asked them to pay a £300 valuation fee. It sent a surveyor to 
their property.
The surveyor reported to Accord, and Miss C and Mr K were sent a copy of the valuation. 
They said the valuation was wrong, because it described their property as terraced when it 
was semi-detached, and because it under-estimated the value of the property. 
Accord rejected their mortgage application. Miss C and Mr K complained. They didnt think it 
was fair that they had been charged for an incorrect valuation, which they thought was likely 
to be the reason for the mortgage application being refused. They wanted Accord to refund 
the £300.
Accord said that it had passed Miss C and Mr Ks comments on to the surveyors employer. 
It didnt think the valuation was wrong. And the fee was non-refundable, which was made 
clear to Miss C and Mr K from the start.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Accord had done what she would 
expect in asking the surveyor to consider Miss C and Mr Ks comments. The fee was non-
refundable. And in any case the valuation wasnt why the mortgage was refused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whenever a mortgage application is made, a lender will consider all the information it 
receives, as well as the results of its standard underwriting checks, when deciding whether 
or not to lend. 
One of the checks it carries out is a valuation or survey of the property, to make sure its 
worth enough and represents good security for the lending. A valuation is generally carried 
out by an independent professional surveyor instructed by  but not employed by  the 
lender. That was the case here. 
As a result, theres usually a fee to pay, to cover the cost of the surveyor. In this case, the 
fee was £300.
The fee was non-refundable because the valuation is one of the checks the lender has to 
carry out in every case. Even if it decides not to lend, the valuation will have been done  
and has to be paid for.
Ive looked at the valuation report. It describes the property as terraced. Miss C and Mr K 
describe it as semi-detached. Its a house, joined directly to the next-door house on one 
side, and joined to the next-door house on the other side by each others garages. There is 
no gap between the properties on either side, albeit the link on one side is the garages 
rather than the houses themselves. 
Because the houses only join on one side, Miss C and Mr K describe it as semi-detached. 
Because the properties are continuous on both sides  via the garage  the valuation report 
described it as terraced. 
The survey company said that it recorded the property as terraced because it met the 
definition of terraced it had been instructed to use  but the surveyor had recorded in his 
notes that it was joined to the house on one side and the garage on the other.
With that context in mind, I dont think the valuation report was wrong  although I accept 
Miss C and Mr K and the surveyor define terraced and semi-detached in different ways. 
And while Miss C and Mr K disagree with the amount of the valuation, the surveyor 
evidenced his valuation by comparing it to similar recently sold properties in the area. 
Valuing a property isnt an exact science, its a professional estimate  and the disagreement 
about the final valuation falls within the accepted margin of error.
In any case, this complaint isnt about the surveyor, its about Accord and whether it should 
fairly refund the valuation fee.
Im not persuaded that it should refund the fee. As Ive said, I dont think the valuation was 
clearly wrong. Accord instructed a qualified professional, and was entitled to rely on their 
opinion. The survey was carried out, and Miss C and Mr K were advised that the fee was 
payable as part of their application and was non-refundable if the application was refused.
And in any case the valuation wasnt the reason why Accord declined the mortgage. It was 
declined because Miss C and Mr Ks application didnt pass Accords standard underwriting 
checks. The detail of underwriting procedures are commercially confidential and theres no 
obligation on Accord to give Miss C and Mr K detailed reasons for refusing lending. But 
based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied it wasnt refused because of the valuation.
Taking everything into account, therefore, I dont think it would be fair to ask Accord to 
refund the fee.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman