DRN-3223037
The complaint
Miss K complains about difficulties obtaining a refund from Creation Financial Services 
Limited after her credit card was closed. 
What happened
In July 2020 Miss Ks credit card was closed. At the time, there was a credit balance of £1.96 
on the account. 
Last year, Miss K asked Creation to send her a cheque with the credit balance of £1.96. 
Creation advised it had stopped issuing cheques but offered to transfer the funds if Miss K 
gave her account information. Miss K has explained fraud concerns mean shes unwilling to 
share those details with Creation. 
Miss K complained and Creation issued a final response. Creation didnt agree it had acted 
unfairly and didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint. Miss K referred her complaint to this service 
and it was considered by an investigator. They thought Creation had dealt with Miss Ks 
complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss K asked to appeal and said she 
thought Creation should have the facility to send cheques. As Miss K asked to appeal, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a service, we cant tell businesses how to operate  including whether it should issue 
refunds via cheques. 
I know Miss K asked Creation for the refund via a cheque, but Creation has confirmed it 
doesnt have that facility. Ive considered whether Creation has treated Miss K unfairly by 
insisting the refund is issued by transfer instead. Miss K has told us she has concerns over 
fraud. But I think its fair to say Creation has already got lots of private information about 
Miss K on file, including the bank details she made payments from. And I havent seen 
anything that indicates Miss Ks bank details would be used fraudulently if she supplied them 
to obtain a refund. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss K but Im satisfied Creation has offered a reasonable way of 
issuing the refund of £1.96. I havent been persuaded Creation treated Miss K unfairly when 
it declined to send a cheque and insisted on a transfer instead. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman