DRN-3309000
The complaint
Mr F complains that Embark Investment Services Limited, trading as Embark Platform, sold 
shares in his account without warning.
What happened
Mr F has a share dealing account with Embark for his self-invested pension plan (SIPP). 
Embark sold the US shares in the account when Mr Fs trustees failed to complete a new 
W8-BEN form.
Mr F says he bought the shares back but wants compensation for the loss he made of 
around £1,900. He also wants an apology and compensation of £1,000 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Embark didnt uphold his complaint. It said it wrote to the SIPP trustees three times to warn 
them that the W8-BEN was due to expire and that, if a new form wasnt received by 
31 December 2020, Embark would have to sell the US shares in Mr Fs account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Embark had written to the trustees and that it had acted in line with its terms and 
conditions. She didnt think Embark was responsible for the trustees failure to make sure the 
correct documents were in place.
Mr F didnt agree. He said, in summary, that the trustees were reliant on Embark to keep 
them informed of any required documents. And that the trustees had no record of any 
correspondence being received. He said Embark hadnt evidenced that it had sent the 
letters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the 
following reasons:
Embark required a current W8-BEN form in order to hold US stocks in Mr Fs SIPP account.
It was the SIPP trustees responsibility to complete the W8-BEN forms when required.
When the existing W8-BEN was coming up to expiry, Embark says it wrote to the SIPP 
trustees requesting a new one. It says it sent three letters at 90, 60 and 30 days prior to 
expiry. The letters were sent by the previous platform provider before the service was 
migrated to Embark. Whilst Embark hasnt been able to provide exact copies of the letters it 
says were sent, Im satisfied, from the information that it has been able to provide, that it did 
send the letters. I say this because Embark has been able to evidence the content of the 
letters and the dates they were sent. 
Embark says the letters were sent to the address it holds in its records for the trustees. Its 
told us this is the same address that was held when the account was migrated to it, and that 
it hasnt received any notification of an address change.
Mr F says the trustees have no record of receiving any of the letters. I cant say with any 
certainty why this is. It could be because of a failing in the postal service or the letters going 
astray on receipt by the trustees. But, overall, Im satisfied three letters were sent to Mr Fs 
SIPP trustees on the dates Embark told us and to the address it had been provided with.
Embark sold Mr Fs US shareholding because an up to date W8-BEN wasnt in place. 
I appreciate this caused Mr F a financial loss, but Im satisfied that Embark acted in line with 
its agreed terms and conditions and, in the circumstances, I dont find it is obliged to 
compensate Mr F.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman