DRN-3620030
The complaint
Mr S complaint is that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly 
cancelled his home insurance policy and declined to offer him a landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S held several insurance policies with LV over the years. This included home insurance 
and landlord insurance, and covered periods when the property was lived in, tenanted and 
unoccupied.
Around June 2021, Mr S took out a personal home insurance policy and told LV the property 
was unoccupied. 
Around November 2021, Mr S told LV the property was to be tenanted and requested a 
landlord policy. LV didnt offer a quote as it said its underwriting criteria for landlord 
insurance was different, which meant the property was now a flood risk. So, it declined to 
offer cover and cancelled Mr S home insurance policy based on the change in 
circumstances to the property.
Mr S was unhappy and complained to LV. He wasnt satisfied with its explanation to cancel 
the policy. 
LV responded to Mr S and maintained its decision to cancel the policy. But it said its 
customer service couldve been better and offered Mr S £50 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. Mr S didnt agree and referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded LV had acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. And they were satisfied 
that the underwriting evidence showed that LVs decision not to offer landlord insurance 
fairly reflected the risk presented by Mr S change in circumstances.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He says LVs decision doesnt 
reflect the number of years its previously insured his property. And he says that hes never 
claimed and as far as hes aware there are no new risks in the area. So, LV hasnt been 
specific enough about why its declined to offer cover.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Insurers can choose what information to consider when setting the price of a policy, 
or whether to offer cover. Insurers then look at these factors and decide what weight 
to place on them.
Insurers can place different weight on factors depending on the type of product being 
offered. In Mr S case the relevant products are a personal home insurance policy for 
an unoccupied property, and a landlord insurance policy for a tenanted property.
The resulting decision to offer cover is based on what risk the insurer wants to take. 
Our service therefore generally doesnt interfere by telling insurer which factors to 
take into account or the weight they place on them, unless it can be shown the 
insurer acted unfairly. 
To show LV acted unfairly, I would need to be persuaded that it did something wrong 
in reviewing the risks posed by Mr S property.
LV has provided our service with some underwriting data. It mentions that as Mr S 
requested a quote for different product, this resulted in a different set of underwriting 
criteria. This criterion deemed Mr S property a flood risk, and so it was unable to 
generate a quote to offer cover. Having considered the information provided, Im 
satisfied that LV has treated Mr S as it would any other customer in the same 
circumstances.
I acknowledge Mr S has been insured with LV over a number of years and provided 
evidence of previous landlord insurance policies. But it isnt our role to tell insurers 
what products to offer a customer. They can decide what risks they are prepared to 
take on and cover, and these risks can change over time based on their appetite. 
So, I am unable to find that LV has acted unreasonably by not offering a landlord 
insurance policy to Mr S. And whilst I understand his concerns about finding a 
different policy, Im unable to consider the actions of other insurers that may choose 
to not offer cover here.
Ive considered LVs offer of £50 compensation for the lack of detail in explaining why 
it couldnt offer cover. I can see it subsequently explained the decision  linked to the 
flood risk, so I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate this isnt much consolation to Mr S, given hes been a customer of LV for 
many years. And that the level of detail LV gave for not offering cover was less than 
he wanted. But having carefully considered everything, Im unable to conclude LV 
acted unfairly, so I wont require it to do anything further.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman