DRN-1210090
Complaint
Mrs F says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs F bought the policy in 1996, at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold, for much the same reasons 
as our adjudicator.
Mrs Fs credit agreement had a section for PPI. It briefly explained what the policy was for, 
then had a box that could be ticked if Mrs F wanted to pay for PPI, or which could be left 
blank if she didnt want it. The box was ticked and Mrs F signed the agreement to confirm 
what was on it. So I think its most likely that AXA made Mrs F aware she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no 
longer recalls doing so after so long.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Mrs F enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs F about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs F chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look 
like she was significantly affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. The 
policy wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay and offered her more comprehensive cover, 
and she doesnt seem to have had any alternative cover in case she lost her job. So the 
policy could have been useful for Mrs F if something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Mrs F could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman