DRN-2519207
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Computershare Investor Services Plc 
(CIS) when he called them to make an enquiry.
What happened
 Mr S contacted CIS in July 2020 to ask why he hadnt received any notification about a 
dividend payment he was due. He says that during the call CIS didnt take his mental health 
into consideration despite him telling them he had mental health problems and they also 
caused him confusion by giving misleading information.
He complained to CIS who upheld his complaint and offered him £25 in compensation. Mr S 
didnt think this was sufficient compensation and brought his complaint to this service. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who thought that CIS needed to 
pay more compensation than what theyd originally offered. She said that throughout the call 
Mr S said he had mental health problems, repeatedly asked for a callback and was left 
weeping for help because of the amount of distress he was under. He also repeatedly told 
the agent he was making him unwell and explained he felt suicidal.
The investigator thought that based on what shed heard, she wasnt persuaded that CIS 
provided Mr S with the level of service he was entitled to as a vulnerable consumer. And 
they should increase the compensation theyd offered by £125.
CIS didnt agree with her findings. They agreed that Mr S was provided with incorrect 
information, but said he was provided with correct information later in the call. And as the call 
was escalated to another area where someone was able to fully explain the situation to Mr S 
and resolve the matter, no further compensation was due.
The investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having listened to the call between Mr S and CIS, I think its clear that they should have 
treated him as a vulnerable customer. He was given misleading information which led him to 
believe that a letter with information about his shareholdings had been sent to him. This 
caused him anxiety as he hadnt received it and was concerned that the letter may have 
been intercepted by a third party.
During the conversation Mr S told CIS several times that he had mental health problems, he 
explained that the conversation was making him feel unwell - to the point where he started to 
weep and he then said he was feeling suicidal. He also asked repeatedly for a callback only 
to be told that this wasnt possible.
Businesses are required to treat customers fairly and as part of this they should make sure 
staff have the right skills and capability to recognise and respond to the needs of vulnerable 
customers. They may also have to adjust their usual processes to meet customers needs.
I dont think CIS treated Mr S fairly. They gave him incorrect information which caused him 
distress and then didnt show any flexibility. They ignored his request for a callback at a time 
when he was clearly getting more and more distressed. I dont think it would have been 
unreasonable or onerous to call him back in light of his needs. In line with good industry 
practice, I think they ought to have done more to facilitate his request and this would have 
undoubtedly caused him less distress.
CIS offered Mr S £25 compensation for service issues but having considered what he told us 
about the impact on him, I agree with our investigator that this doesnt adequately reflect the 
distress and inconvenience hes suffered. I think CIS could and should have alleviated this 
by being more flexible and proactive in offering him support as a vulnerable consumer. I 
therefore agree that £150 compensation in total  so a further £125 on top of what has 
already been paid  would be a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
 To put things right, I direct Computershare Investor Services Plc to pay Mr S a further £125 
compensation on top of the £25 they have already paid in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and direct 
Computershare Investor Services Plc to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman