DRN-2358103
The complaint
Ms J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt promptly provide information to the 
Department for Work and Pensions (DWP), in the format it had requested.
Ms J says that despite chasing Barclays it did not complete the DWP form for several 
months.
Ms J says this delay caused her trouble and upset and she wants Barclays to compensate 
her.
What happened
Ms J holds a mortgage with Barclays. Ms J applied to the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) for support with her mortgage interest payments as she was experiencing 
financial difficulty. In order to consider Ms Js application for support the DWP required 
information from Barclays. It asked Barclays to complete the relevant form (M112) and return 
it to the DWP.
Barclays sent the information the DWP had requested in a letter format three times; on 10 
March, 9 April and 17 June 2020. The letter dated 17 June 2020 was sent by recorded 
delivery.
Ms J then spoke to Barclays and said that although the DWP had received the letters, it 
required the information to be copied into the form it had sent.
Barclays then completed the M112 form and sent it to the DWP by recorded delivery.
Ms J complained to Barclays. She said it should have completed the form and returned it 
promptly to the DWP.
Barclays didnt uphold Ms Js complaint. It noted it had sent the information the DWP had 
requested three times. It explained that its process was to send a letter containing the 
information requested, rather than complete forms sent by the DWP.
Ms J wasnt satisfied with Barclays response and referred her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator said he didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong.
He said he was satisfied that Barclays had sent the information the DWP required promptly. 
It had also re-sent the information twice when Ms J said the DWP hadnt received its letters. 
In view of this, he said he couldnt reasonably say that Barclays was responsible for any 
delays as it had promptly provided the information the DWP had requested from it.
He said he felt that if the DWP had told Ms J, or Barclays, sooner that it had received the 
letters, but it needed the information to be copied onto the form it had sent, the delays could 
have been avoided. 
He said he had reached this view as once DWP told Ms J that it had received the letters but 
wanted the information to be copied out onto its form, Barclays completed the form and sent 
it by recorded delivery.
Ms J wasnt satisfied with our investigators response. She said that Barclays was at fault 
because it should have completed the form the DWP sent.
Our investigator remained of the view that Barclays had provided the information to the DWP 
promptly and the complaint was passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Ms Js position and I have very carefully considered everything she has 
said and provided. I appreciate that the delays she experienced would have been avoided if 
Barclays had completed the DWP form when it received it, rather than sending the 
information requested in a letter.
But I am mindful that Barclays receives numerous requests for information from a variety of 
sources. In order to reduce the amount of time it spends fulfilling such requests it, not 
unreasonably in my view, sometimes provides the requested information in a different format 
to that requested, which is what happened here.
I must also take into account that the letter Barclays sent to the DWP set out:
Following your recent submission of an M112 form for information on the above borrower(s), 
please find below details as requested. This information is applicable as at the date of this 
letter as per the M112 form Part 7 to part 9 (original form also enclosed).
The letter also said:
Should you have any questions relating to the information provided, please contact us on the 
above number.
I think the issue could have been quickly resolved if the DWP had phoned Barclays to say it 
wasnt willing to accept the information in a letter format and needed the information to be 
copied onto its form. Instead it appears it simply told Ms J that it hadnt received the form 
without explaining that it wasnt willing to accept the information in the letter format Barclays 
had sent it in.
I am satisfied that Barclays sent the requested information promptly and then re-sent it twice 
when the DWP said it hadnt received the M112 form. I dont think Barclays could reasonably 
have been expected to know that the letters it had sent had been received but the 
information hadnt been used by the DWP as it hadnt been copied onto the form.
I do understand that this is not the decision Ms J was hoping for, but Im satisfied that 
Barclays provided the required information promptly, and re-send the information, including 
by recorded delivery when the DWP told Ms J that it hadnt received the form. I cant 
reasonably say that it should have done more.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman