DRN-3095530
The complaint
Mr S complains about the decision by Canada Life Limited to terminate his income 
protection claim, and its communication with him during its review of the claim. 
What happened
Mr S is covered by his employers group income protection scheme, the aim of which is to 
pay benefit if he cant work in his occupation because of illness or injury. 
In 2018 Mr S stopped work. He made a claim under the scheme, which was accepted by 
Canada Life. In 2019, Canada Life started reviewing Mr Ss claim. After doing so, it thought 
Mr S no longer met the scheme definition of incapacity. It terminated his claim in December 
2020. 
Mr S appealed against Canada Lifes decision, and provided new medical evidence. After 
considering this, Canada Life changed its decision and reinstated the claim. 
Mr S complained to Canada Life about its decision to terminate his claim, and how it had 
communicated with him during its review of the claim. Canada Life didnt uphold his 
complaints, and so Mr S brought the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaints be upheld. He thought that Canada Lifes 
decision to terminate the claim had been reasonable, based on the medical evidence 
available at the time. He didnt think Canada Life had communicated with Mr S in a way that 
was inappropriate.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scheme definition of incapacity is:
We will treat a member as suffering Incapacity if, throughout the deferred period and 
beyond, the members illness or injury prevents them from, and makes them incapable of, 
performing the material and substantial duties of their normal occupation.
Canada Life is entitled to regularly review the claim to ensure that Mr S continues to meet 
the above criteria. Canada Life wrote to Mr S in October 2019 to inform him that it would be 
doing so. 
Canada Lifes decision to terminate the claim was largely based on the findings of a 
consultant psychiatrist (Dr B), who carried out an independent medical examination in 
October 2020. 
Dr B described how thered been a complete breakdown in the relationship between Mr S 
and his employer. He thought Mr Ss absence was due to both work-related issues and 
clinical illness, but pointed out that the clinical illness was very largely due to the work-
related issues. Dr B said he would hope that if there were a clean break between Mr S and 
his employer, then Mr S could do his current work for an alternative employer. 
Canada Life also sought input from their medical officer, who is also a consultant 
psychiatrist. She carried out a desktop review of the available medical evidence and agreed 
with Dr Bs findings. She said she didnt see any major psychiatric diagnosis that would stop 
Mr S from attending work. 
I recognise that Mr S had been experiencing work-related issues with his employer. Though 
as Canada Life has explained, the definition of incapacity relates to Mr Ss ability to carry out 
his generic occupation, not his specific role with his employer. 
Consequently, I think it was reasonable for Canada Life to conclude when it did that Mr S no 
longer met the policy definition of incapacity, and to terminate the claim. Whilst I appreciate 
Mr Ss point that he continued to be signed off as unfit to work by his GP, Im satisfied it was 
appropriate for Canada Life to place greater weight on the opinion of Dr B and its medical 
officer, as both are specialists in their field.
Mr S later appealed, and provided new medical evidence. I dont need to comment on this, 
as Canada Life has accepted this showed that Mr S couldnt go back to work. It therefore 
overturned its decision to terminate the claim. 
Mr S is also unhappy with Canada Lifes communication with him during its review of his 
claim, and thinks this was unprofessional. 
Whilst Mr S objected to Canada Life corresponding with his employer about his claim, this is 
a group scheme and Mr Ss employer is the policyholder. I therefore see nothing wrong with 
Canada Life corresponding with his employer about the claim. 
Although Mr S was concerned that his employer had arranged the examination with Dr B 
and had asked the questions put to Dr B, I note he was reassured that this wasnt the case. 
Canada Life also made it clear that Dr Bs report (which contained confidential medical 
information) wouldnt be shared with Mr Ss employer.
Mr S says that Canada Life hung up on him during one phone call. I note the staff member 
who terminated the call said that she did so because Mr S had been angry and had shouted 
at her. As Mr S is aware, the call wasnt recorded and so I cant comment on whether or not 
it was appropriate for Canada Life to terminate the call. 
Overall, whilst I appreciate that Mr S found the review stressful, I dont find that Canada Life 
was unprofessional in its communications with him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-RyanOmbudsman