DRN-3068634
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd declined a claim under 
her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ive summarised whats happened 
below.
Mrs K has a pet insurance policy for her dog  the policy is underwritten by                         
Red Sands. The policy provides cover in the event of an accident. 
The policy started in September 2016. In May 2019, Mrs Ks dog fell from a height 
and needed to be seen by a vet.
The vet said Mrs Ks dog had suffered injury as a result of the fall. Surgery was 
required, and a claim was subsequently made for treating the dogs luxating patella.
Red Sands declined the claim. It said clinical notes from December 2016 refer to    
Mrs Ks dog having patella luxation in both right and left legs. It said because the 
patella luxation is bilateral, its highly unlikely to be solely due to a traumatic incident. 
As the policy only provides cover in the event of an accident  and does not cover 
illness or diseases  Red Sands said treatment to repair the dogs leg isnt covered.
Mrs K brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator considered it and upheld 
the complaint.
She was satisfied the injury was as a result of an accident. She referred to clinical 
notes dated 4 June 2019 in which the treating vet said the injury was a result of the 
fall from Mrs Ks arms.
Red Sands disagreed. It provided a report from its consultant vet who concluded it 
was more likely the fall exacerbated existing symptoms. In summary the vet said the 
cartilage damage and crooked distal femur with a shallow trochlear groove were 
indicative of long-standing joint changes typical of developmental patella luxation. 
He added, that even if the trauma worsened the symptoms, all treatment provided 
was aimed at correcting and treating the patella luxation first diagnosed in 2016  
which is not covered under the policy. 
Our investigator was more persuaded by the treating vets evidence as hed 
examined Mrs Ks dog, and so her position remained the same. 
Because Red Sands disagree, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The starting point is the policy document. The policy is an accident only policy and so 
excludes any claims regarding illness. The policy defines an accident as a sudden, 
unforeseen, and unintended event causing injury. Given Mrs Ks dog fell from a height 
having jumped out of her arms, Im satisfied this was an accident.  
The policy defines injury as damage to one or more parts of your pets body as a result of 
an accidental cause. The parties agree Mrs Ks dog suffered damage to its body, but Red 
Sands doesnt agree that the definition of a condition has been met under the policy. 
Condition is defined as any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single accident. It 
says the damage was instead attributable to a pre-existing condition  patella luxation  and 
that the accident exacerbated an existing condition. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence from both vets to decide whether the injury was as a 
result of the accident or not.  Having done so, Im more persuaded by the treating vets 
testimony and Ill explain why.
Red Sands vet has commented on the nature of the surgery to repair Mrs Ks dogs leg. In 
summary, theyve said its indicative of repair to a long-standing condition, as opposed to 
traumatic damage. Theyve also provided information about patella luxation and how the 
condition presents itself. In considering this I must keep in mind that the additional 
information is general information and not specific to Mrs Ks dog case. 
By comparison, the treating vet physically examined and performed surgery on Mrs Ks dog 
and so their testimony is based on what they witnessed at the time. I find the clinical notes 
from when the surgery was performed to be persuasive, particularly as the vet clearly says 
they believe the jump from Mrs Ks arms to be the cause: 
it does all still seem to be traumatic tear of collateral ligaments form the jump from 
the owners arms
In addition, the vet has explained there was a three-year period between the patella luxation 
being diagnosed in 2016 and the accident in 2019  which shows the condition wasnt a 
cause for concern in the intervening period. Further visits to the vets about the condition 
might be indicative of the condition worsening  but this isnt the case with Mrs Ks dog. 
On balance, Im satisfied the injury was caused by an accident and not an illness, and so it 
wouldnt be fair for Red Sands to extend the illness exclusion to limit its responsibility.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Ltd must cover the claim.  
If Mrs K has paid any invoices, Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd must add 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement upon Mrs K 
providing relevant receipts.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman