DRN-1487174
 
The complaint
Mr B says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2005. The policy was added to 
Mr Bs credit card account when he phoned up to activate his credit card.
Mr B mainly said the policy was recommended to him so he felt he had to take it out and 
advice and information wasnt properly explained. Mr B told us he didnt need PPI as he had 
other ways to pay his credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
I think Capital One made Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. I 
say this because hed already received his credit card, even though it seems he hadnt 
asked for PPI. So, I think Mr B wouldve known it was open to him not to take out PPI if he 
didnt want to have it. Theres no call recording. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr B 
to remember everything that was discussed as this was some time ago. But, on balance, 
I think its more likely that during the phone call Mr B decided he wanted the benefits that 
PPI offered him and he asked for it to be added on to his credit card account. From then on, 
hed have been able to see from his monthly credit card statements when he was paying for 
PPI.
Capital One says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr B. And even if Mr B feels PPI was 
recommended to him, I dont think a recommendation to have PPI wouldve been unsuitable 
 so this doesn't affect the outcome of his complaint. But Ive looked carefully at whether 
Capital One gave Mr B enough information to make a proper decision about whether PPI 
was right for him  and if it didn't do this, Ive thought about whether that makes any overall 
difference to what happened.
Mr B was eligible for the PPI cover. He mentioned that he wouldve got full sick pay for between 3 and 6 months from his 
employer. But the policy wouldve paid more than his minimum credit card repayments for up 
to 12 months in the event of accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. 
As Mr B mightve also had some additional costs if he was too unwell to work or disabled, 
I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time.
Also, the policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mr B lost his job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. 
Ive taken into account that Mr B told us he had access to savings when he took out his 
credit card. But I dont know if he wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to 
make a claim. And the policy paid out for longer than its likely the amount of savings hes 
mentioned would've lasted if hed had to depend on using these to cover outgoings when he 
was unable to work.  
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Mr B wasnt affected by any of the main policy exclusions or limitations. So, I dont think 
having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected his decision to 
have PPI.
Mr B hasnt suggested that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums. And he chose to take 
out the policy when he didnt have to, so it seems Mr B wanted this type of cover at the time. 
Looked at overall, I think Mr B still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been better 
informed. The policy gave him worthwhile protection in his particular situation. So I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped him buying it.
This means Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Capital One (Europe) plc got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Capital 
One (Europe) plc didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in 
this case.
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman