DRN-2330265
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in connection 
with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, but its 
accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep things 
simple.
Miss P says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Miss P opened a store card account in a shop in 2001. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Miss Ps card each 
month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It 
also included some purchase and price protection insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, she said she 
didn't think that AXA had made the policy's costs and benefits clear enough to Miss P. And 
taking into account Miss P's circumstances and the cover she already had, she didn't think 
Miss P would have thought the policy to be good value. So she wouldnt have decided to 
take the PPI if she'd been given clear information about the costs and benefits of the policy.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I've decided to uphold Miss P's complaint. I'll explain why.
It isnt in dispute that AXA didnt recommend the policy to Miss P, or provide advice to 
her about it. This means AXA didnt have a responsibility to check if the cover was 
suitable for Miss P. But it still needed to provide her with enough information to decide 
for herself whether she wanted to take the cover, knowing what other means shed have 
had of making her monthly store card repayments if she was off sick, or if she lost her 
job.
The store card application that Miss P signed shows that the PPI cost 1p for every pound 
of the monthly balance. Its possible that this was pointed out to Miss P. But I dont think 
its very likely that the true costs and benefits of the policy were explained clearly enough 
to Miss P to enable her to work out whether the cover was worth taking out. For example, 
I dont know if AXA explained to Miss P that the premiums for the policy would be added 
to the balance on her store card account and interest might be added to them. And I 
dont know if AXA explained that Miss P would have to carry on paying the premiums if 
she made a claim on the policy, so reducing the benefit.
Miss Ps consistently told us that she'd have been entitled to 26 weeks' full pay from her 
employer if she'd been off sick. She says this would have been followed by up to two 
years further pay at up to 50% of her basic salary. 
After the adjudicator sent out her view, AXA queried whether Miss P would have been 
entitled to the level of sick pay she's told us about, given her length of service at the time. 
But Miss P still works for the same employer, and she says shed have been entitled to 
this level of sick pay from the outset. I'm not satisfied, on balance, that there's a good 
reason to doubt what Miss P's told us about her sick pay entitlement.
Miss P's also told us that she had savings of £3,000 to £5,000 when she opened the 
store card account. And she says the savings were easily accessible. Miss P hasn't been 
able to provide evidence to support what she says. But I don't think that's surprising, 
given how long ago the sale took place. And again, I'm not satisfied, on balance, that 
there's a good reason to doubt what Miss P's told us.
£3,000 to £5,000 was the equivalent of between three and five months' take-home pay 
for Miss P at the time. Taking everything into account, between her sick pay and her 
savings, I think that if Miss P had been off sick, its likely she could have met her monthly 
store card repayments for at least a year without the PPI. And I'm not convinced that 
she'd have thought the benefit of the policy was worth the cost if AXA had given her clear 
information about the costs and benefits. So Im not convinced that AXA did everything it 
should have done. And I think Miss P has lost out as a result.
Putting things right
AXA should put Miss P in the financial position shed be in now if she hadn't taken out PPI:
A. AXA should find out how much Miss P would have owed when the card account was 
closed if the policy hadn't been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss P owed when the account 
was closed and what she would have owed if she hadn't had PPI.
If Miss P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss P would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.C. If  when AXA works out what Miss P would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss P paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss P would have owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Miss P what it's done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Miss P that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things right by 
doing as I've set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman