DRN-3137699
The complaint
  Mr G complains about a loan provided to him by AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as
AvantCredit, which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
  AvantCredit provided Mr G with a loan for £3000 in March 2016. It was due to be repaid 
over 2 years in monthly instalments of £186.44. There is still a balance to repay on the loan.
Mr G says he feels that AvantCredit have irresponsibly lent the money to him. He says he 
was in a spiral of debt and that he had taken out several short-term loans at the time, that he 
had taking out to repay other loans. He says AvantCredit should have seen that he couldnt 
afford the loan.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When AvantCredit lent to Mr G the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
AvantCredit was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Gs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
AvantCredit had to consider both the risk to it that Mr G wouldnt make the repayments 
under the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr G of not being able to make these 
repayments. In particular, AvantCredit had to consider Mr Gs ability to make repayments 
under the agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to 
borrow to meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a 
contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant 
adverse effect on her financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Gs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Gs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? If it did, did AvantCredit then make a fair lending decision?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did AvantCredit carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that AvantCredit asked Mr G about his income and some of his expenditure. It 
recorded his income down as £2000 and it says it verified this using an online verification 
tool. It then carried out a credit search and asked Mr G for bank statements. I can see that it 
gathered a series of screen shots covering a months worth of transactions on an account 
held by Mr G. 
Ive carefully considered what AvantCredit has said about the checks it carried out before it 
agreed to lend. I can see that it verified Mr Gs income as £2000 but this is at odds with what 
Mr Gs income appeared to be in the screenshots of his bank account. This was showing a 
different amount. I think this ought to have led to it wanting to carry out further checks about 
this, to further verify what his income actually was.
In addition, I can see it carried out a credit search. But I cannot see how or if it used this or if 
it analysed Mr Gs existing credit commitments at that time. I can see on the credit search it 
carried out that Mr Gs active monthly payments which are currently active was £1718. This 
ought to have raised concerns to AvantCredit that Mr G had a large credit commitment at 
that time, when it was working out if he could afford the loan. So, I think on seeing this, I 
think it should have caused AvantCredit concerns that Mr G could afford the loan. And it 
ought to have wanted to at this stage carry out further checks to look into what this was all 
for. I think overall based on what it had initially gathered, it should have looked to carry out a 
completed review of Mr Gs finances to assure itself that he could repay the loan in a 
sustainable way, especially as the loan term was for 2 years.    
Did AvantCredit make a fair lending decision?
Ive concluded the checks AvantCredit carried out werent proportionate and that it needed to 
do more. But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out proportionate checks, because I dont think AvantCredit made a fair lending decision when it 
agreed to the loan anyway, based on what it had in front of it. 
I say this because when I look through the screen shots AvantCredit gathered of Mr Gs 
bank account at that time, I can see that it shows Mr G was more likely than not having 
problems managing his finances. 
The screen shots AvantCredit gathered were of around a months worth of transactions from 
Mr Gs bank account in February 2016, for the weeks leading up to the loan application. 
AvantCredit would have had this information in front of it when it agreed to lend to Mr G. I 
can see payments on these screenshots from Mr G to at least six other short-term finance 
providers. It ought to have been clear to AvantCredit when it saw all of this, that Mr G had 
become reliant on short term lending. I think the information in the screenshots supports Mr 
Gs complaint that he was in a spiral of debt, was taking out new loans to repay existing 
ones and that he was having problems managing his finances.
So, I am currently minded to conclude that, based on what AvantCredit had in front of it, I 
dont think it made a fair lending decision. it would have seen Mr G wouldnt have been able 
to make repayments in a sustainable way.  
As Mr G has been indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on the loans that 
he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what AvantCredit did wrong.
So, I think AvantCredit needs to put things right for the reasons given above.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr G responded and said he agrees with the provisional 
decision. Avantcredit responded and says it agrees with what I have said and now will 
uphold Mr Gs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Both parties agree with my provisional decision. So, as neither party has anything further 
to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will change the outcome of this complaint, I 
dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With that 
being the case, I uphold Mr Gs complaint.  
Putting things right
  In line with this Services approach, Mr G shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for the loan. As Ive already mentioned Mr G has an amount left to repay on the 
loan. With this in mind, AvantCredit should:
add up the total amount of money Mr G received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mr G made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr G was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr G to the date of settlement;
If there is still a balance that needs to be repaid, AvantCredit should treat Mr G fairly 
and arrange a payment plan that is affordable for him. 
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Gs credit file because of the loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Avantcredit of UK, LLC to put 
things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman