DRN-3151317
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as W, complains that Nottingham Building Society (NBS) 
acted unfairly by withdrawing its mortgage offer at the last minute. W would like to recover 
the legal, valuation and search costs incurred before the offer was withdrawn. 
W is represented in bringing this complaint by its director, Ms M. 
What happened
In February 2020, W applied to NBS for two commercial mortgages, secured on two 
business premises, in order to complete the purchase of another business. The purchase 
was due to complete in June 2020.
On 18 May 2020, NBS provided W with two mortgage offers. 
On 9 June 2020, NBS informed Ws broker that it was withdrawing one of the two mortgage 
offers, because the valuer had told the building society that the premises werent suitable as 
security for the loan. This was because a mining report had revealed the presence of a 
disused mine shaft. NBS told W that it would need to find a new source for that part of the 
funding if it wanted to complete the purchase. 
On 15 June 2020, W told NBS that it wasnt going to proceed with either mortgage. 
W complained to NBS. NBS didnt uphold the complaint. It acknowledged there were delays 
due to the national lockdown that began in March 2020. But it said that the mining report was 
a condition of its offer and it wasnt aware of the mine shaft until it received the report.
Ms M asked for our service to look into what had happened. 
One of our investigators concluded that NBS hadnt done anything wrong. She said that, 
although there were some delays between March and May 2020 due to the pandemic, the 
building society were within their rights to withdraw the mortgage offer as a result of the 
mining report. 
W asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again. Ms M made the following points: 
If we were allowing NBS some leeway due to the lockdown, then we should split the 
difference and direct the building society to cover half Ws costs. 
It was the amount of overall delay by NBS that had left W without any time to salvage 
the deal.
Communication with NBS throughout was difficult at best.  
It was important to note the impact of the late notice of withdrawal on the deal as a 
whole. The deadline for this transaction wasnt self-imposed by W.
There was a delay of over two weeks between the date of the mining report and NBS 
saying they had received it. 
There was nothing in the mining report that said the property was actually at risk. 
She considered that NBS had lost appetite for the lending in March and should not 
have strung the process out for another three months. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for essentially the 
same reasons. I realise this will be a disappointment to Ms M, so Ill explain why Ive decided 
this below. 
The original application for the two mortgages was made on 14 February 2020. Ms M has 
said she was expecting an offer in March. However, I think its fair to say that this would be 
unusually quick for commercial mortgages. I also havent seen any evidence that NBS ever 
promised this. 
Its very unfortunate that the first national lockdown then intervened in March 2020. NBS 
accepts that this caused delays. Its clear that this was an unprecedented situation, with NBS 
suddenly having to shift to a homeworking model with minimal notice. I dont think its 
surprising that communication suffered as a result and the mortgage offers took longer than 
they would usually have done. 
W says the purchase deal was due to complete on 12 June 2020. The mortgage offers were 
made on 18 May 2020. So there would still have been time to complete if everything had 
gone according to plan, albeit with little contingency. 
Ms M has suggested that NBS had in reality lost appetite for the lending in March. But given 
that the building society had no contractual obligation to lend, I think if it had changed its 
mind, it would have said so in March and not made two offers in May.  
Ms M feels that there wasnt really any reason to withdraw the mortgage offer on 9 June, 
particularly not for a lender like NBS that was used to operating in a mining area. She points 
out that the environmental report assessed the land as pass with some considerations. 
This is a question of risk appetite, which, in my view, is something about which NBS was 
entitled to form its own judgement.
In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for the building society to seek - and then rely 
on - the views of specialist third parties. I also think this would be considered responsible 
lending practice. The valuers view that, in the light of the information in the mining report, 
the building represented unacceptable uncertainty as loan security is clear.
As our investigator pointed out, NBS General Conditions for Mortgages said, in section 8, if 
we discover anything that affects our lending decision, we may change or withdraw our offer 
at any time.  Im therefore satisfied that NBS didnt make an error when it withdrew one of 
its mortgage offers on 9 June. I think it was making a commercial decision that its terms and 
conditions entitled it to make, in the light of new information received. Ive looked carefully at the timeline of what happened after the mortgage offer. I can see that 
the mining report was dated 21 May 2020. At some point after that date, this report was sent 
to the solicitors acting for both sides. I dont know when this was. But Im satisfied that the 
building society didnt have the mining report until early June. I say this because Ive seen an 
email from the solicitors to NBS dated 9 June, which mentions the mining report sent to you 
last week. 
NBS says that it received the report on 4 June 2020. I think this is more likely than not to be 
correct, based on the above email and the fact that, on 5 June 2020, NBS underwriter 
referred the report to the valuer for an opinion on whether the mine shaft impacted the value 
of the security. The valuer replied on 9 June and NBS emailed Ws broker the same day. It 
also informed the solicitors on 10 June. My conclusion from this is that the building society 
was acting in a timely fashion and didnt cause any delays in this part of the process. 
NBS General Conditions for Mortgages warned that If, for any reason, you do not go ahead 
with a loan and the solicitor has done any work, you may still have costs to pay. 
Unfortunately, this is what happened here. W couldnt go ahead with one mortgage and 
chose not to go ahead with the mortgage that was still on offer. 
I appreciate that one mortgage on its own was of no use to W. But even if NBS had made 
the mortgage offer earlier - and therefore the mining report and subsequent offer withdrawal 
had happened earlier  I think it unlikely that W would have had time to start from scratch 
and find an alternative lender in time to complete in June 2020. So Im not persuaded that 
NBS COVID-related delays made a difference to the outcome. 
I can understand Ms Ms frustration that W has been left with material costs relating to 
mortgages that didnt go ahead. But unfortunately, this is always a risk with mortgages, 
which is why it is covered in NBS terms and conditions. 
I know that W has argued that a fair outcome would be to split the difference and require 
NBS to share the costs. But I can only award compensation where I find that an error has 
occurred. And Im not persuaded that NBS has done anything wrong here. I dont think it 
would be fair to punish it for reasonable time taken to adjust to the pandemic and I dont 
think it did anything wrong by withdrawing its offer in the light of the mining report. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint against Nottingham Building 
Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman