DRN-3289742
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) dealt with a 
claim he made against it under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr H booked package travel arrangements through an online travel service provider, E. He 
says the information E provided about the hotel accommodation led him to think that it 
included a bath. He says this was important due to medical requirements. However, when 
Mr H arrived at the hotel he found the premium suite reserved only came with a shower.
The next day the hotel arranged for Mr H to move to a suite of rooms which included a bath. 
Mr H accepted the room change, but felt that the alternative provided was of a lower 
standard, as it didnt have the same uninterrupted panoramic view as the original suite. Mr H 
says his attempts to address matters with E were unsuccessful. He raised a section 75 claim 
with JLFS for possible breach of contract or misrepresentation. In support of his claim Mr H 
provided comparison prices hed obtained that he said indicated a loss of around £2,000.
JLFS didnt deal with Mr Hs claim in a timely way, and he complained to it  and 
subsequently to us. It paid Mr H £75 in recognition of the delays hed experienced. When 
JLFS did respond to Mr Hs claim, it said the holiday arrangements didnt meet the debtor-
creditor-supplier relationship necessary to section 75.
Our investigator didnt think that was right. He said that because Mr H had booked and paid 
for package travel arrangements with E, there was a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship in place. The investigator also thought that the information in Es advert  that 
the accommodation came with a bath or shower  could amount to misrepresentation. 
However, after gathering further information from the hotel about the alternative suite it 
provided to Mr H, he wasnt persuaded Mr H had suffered loss that warranted compensation.
Mr H disputes this conclusion. He says that while the alternative suite the hotel provided had 
three rooms rather than the two in the premium suite hed booked, hed made no use of the 
third room. The only purpose the extra room served was that it included a bath. He didnt 
think the two suites were comparable in terms of location within the hotel, or in the views 
they offered. Mr H has also referenced his correspondence with the hotel manager during 
his stay. He suggests this supports his position that the alternative suite was not of a similar 
standard and says that the hotels later correspondence with us is misleading.
My provisional findings
I recently issued my provisional decision to both parties, setting out my thoughts on the key 
complaint points and how best I thought matters should be resolved. In my provisional 
findings I said:
Mr Hs claim against JLFS is founded in section 75 of the CCA1974. One effect of 
section 75 is that, where an individual (the debtor) buys goods from a supplier using 
credit provided under pre-existing arrangements between the lender (creditor) and 
the supplier, that individual can bring a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the lender in the same way he could against the supplier.
JFLS hasnt commented on the investigators conclusion that it was wrong to say 
there wasnt a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. But for the avoidance of any 
doubt, Im satisfied that Mr H made a package travel arrangement, the supplier was 
E and Mr H paid for the travel arrangement using credit provided to him by JLFS. The 
necessary debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement was in place. So while Mr H entered 
into the contract with E, under section 75 he can seek to pursue his claim against 
JLFS.
In my view then, JFLS hasnt handled Mr Hs claim correctly. But that isnt the same 
as saying it should have paid his claim, or that appropriate compensation for its 
handling should be the amount hes claiming. That requires further thought and 
examination of the underlying points made.
Mr H has presented a good deal of documentation and testimony in support of his 
claim. While I dont think its sufficient to substantiate the amount of loss hes said 
hes seeking to recover, I think he should be entitled to compensation in respect of 
the hotel booking. Ill explain why.
Mr H contracted with E to book the premium suite at the specified hotel for the dates 
of his intended stay. Its not disputed that E did so. There doesnt appear to have 
been a contractual obligation to book a suite including a bath. Mr H doesnt suggest 
he made this specific requirement. Rather, he says he naturally assumed a premium 
suite would have this facility, as E described the suite as having a bath or shower. I 
dont think that would be enough to incorporate provision of a bath into the contract. 
Any reliance placed on the statement that the suite had a bath or shower would have 
to consider there was no guarantee that there was a bath.
Nevertheless, if none of the premium suites came with a bath then its possible this 
statement leans towards a misrepresentation, on the basis that it was made without 
verifying whether it was true. Suggesting the possibility of a bath or a shower when 
the suites in question came only with a shower is obviously misleading. And Mr H 
has provided persuasive evidence of why it was important to him to have a bath 
rather than a shower in his suite. Supporting this is the fact that when Mr H arrived at 
the hotel and discovered the true position, he was sufficiently unhappy that he 
arranged to change to a different suite that did have a bath.
The replacement suite comprised three rooms, including bath. Whether Mr H made 
use of the additional space is not, to my mind, particularly relevant to his claim for 
reimbursement. He had the ability to do so, and the replacement suite was in certain 
respects comparable to the one hed originally booked. Because of this I dont 
consider the comparison prices Mr H obtained provide a useful way of assessing 
loss. It would be wrong to say the equivalent cost would be that of a two-room suite 
when he was provided with a three-room suite.
However, there are some key aspects in which the replacement suite did not meet Mr 
Hs expectations when compared with what he booked. It was evidently important to 
Mr H when he made his booking that he had a suite in the middle of the hotel, with 
uninterrupted panoramic views. The replacement suite, while undoubtedly of high 
standard, was not in the same part of the hotel and, from what Mr H says, could not 
rightly be said to have the same vista, being at the corner of the hotel and adjacent to 
another building.I think its clear Mr H accepted the alternative suite reluctantly, due to his requirement 
for a bath. In doing so, he lost the benefit of the panoramic view that was important to 
his enjoyment of his stay. It must be remembered that a contract for a holiday 
generally incorporates an element relating to enjoyment and relaxation. I dont doubt 
that the loss of the view resulted in a reduction in Mr Hs enjoyment of the hotel and 
its facilities, which could equate to a breach of contract as well as misrepresentation. 
So I can see a situation where Mr H could well be successful in claiming 
compensation for this.
With that in mind, I think the fair way to resolve this dispute would be for JLFS to pay 
Mr H a sum reflecting his loss of enjoyment. Noting the £4,350 cost of his 
arrangements included car hire as well as the other hotel amenities that he still 
received, Im minded to assess suitable compensation as being £500. For clarity, this 
would be in addition to the £75 JL:FS has already paid Mr H for delays in its handling 
of his claim.
Both parties have since responded to let me know they accept the proposed outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr H and JLFS accepted my provisional decision, for the reasons I set out above Im 
satisfied its a reasonable way to resolve this complaint. Id like to thank both parties for their 
prompt response and agreeing an amicable conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision therefore is that John Lewis Financial Services Limited should pay Mr H 
£500 (in addition to £75 already paid) to settle this dispute.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman