DRN-3717833
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op Bank) hasnt provided him 
with a refund for two payments he says he made as part of a scam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C made two payments to a timeshare company in 2016 as follows:
£1,800 debit card 15 June 2016
£7,150 bank transfer 13 July 2016
Mr and Mrs C say that the police contacted them in May 2019 explaining this was a scam. 
They then raised a claim with Co-op Bank on 30 May 2019. Co-op Bank declined the claim 
saying that Mr and Mrs C raised the claim too late and that he had up to 13 months from the 
date of payment to raise a fraud claim.
When Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to our service the investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint.
As Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, the matter was passed to me to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision on 7 September 2022 explaining why I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs C responded to say that if the police knew or found out it was a scam then they 
think Co-op Bank would also have known this. Co-op Bank didnt have anything to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including considering Mr and Mrs Cs further comments, Im not upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
In relation to the fraud claim, it isnt disputed that the payments were authorised. This means 
that the starting point for payments like this (made in 2016) is that Mr and Mrs C are liable 
for these payments. However, if Co-op Bank had done something wrong or not done 
something it should have which would likely have prevented Mr and Mrs Cs loss, then it 
might be fair for it to reimburse Mr and Mrs C.
Ive thought about whether Co-op Bank ought to have done more to prevent the payments 
taking place at the time. In 2016, a payment service provider like Co-op Bank should have 
had systems in place to identify suspicious activity and would need to have taken 
appropriate steps in relation to this. I dont have evidence to show whether the disputed 
payments were unusual for Mr and Mrs C at the time, but even if they were I dont think this 
would mean a refund was fair in the circumstances. This is because Im not persuaded that 
its more likely than not it would have prevented Mr and Mrs Cs loss if Co-op Bank had 
spoken to Mr and Mrs C about one of these payments at the time. This is because:
The supplier in the circumstances may have been involved in poor selling practices 
and/or ultimately provided an unsatisfactory product, but this is different from tricking 
Mr and Mrs C into making a payment for a wholly different purpose or person than 
they were led to believe.
When Mr and Mrs C made the payments in 2016 they didnt believe the matter to be 
a scam, and there are legitimate companies offering a similar service to the relevant 
supplier here.
I therefore havent seen anything to suggest that Co-op Bank would have (or ought to 
have) identified that the payment was in relation to a scam had it discussed the 
matter with Mr and Mrs C at the time. 
Mr and Mrs C say that if the police knew or found out it was a scam, then Co-op Bank would 
have known this as well. I dont agree with this logic  the police have a very different 
function and remit than banks such as Co-op Bank do. I havent seen anything to show that 
this was a known scam (even to the police) at the time of the payments, which were around 
three years before the police contacted Mr and Mrs C. Nor have I seen any evidence that 
Co-op Bank were on notice this was a scam at the time of the payments. So, I dont think it 
would be reasonable for me to conclude that Co-op bank knew about the scam at the time.
For these reasons, I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that Co-op Bank ought to 
have prevented the payments from going ahead in the circumstances.
Other considerations:
I dont agree that the 13-month rule relied on by Co-op Bank is relevant here. These 
are authorised payments and the sections of the account terms and conditions that 
reference the need to report a payment within 13 months relate to incorrect payments 
and unauthorised payments. But as I havent concluded that Mr and Mrs C ought to 
have received a refund, and our Service isnt punitive, I dont think its appropriate to 
make an award on the basis that Co-op Bank declined the claim for the wrong 
reason. 
Ive also thought about recovery and whether Co-op Bank ought to have done more 
when Mr and Mrs C reported the issue. As one of the payments was made by debit 
card, Ive considered whether Co-op Bank ought to have attempted a chargeback 
when the dispute was raised. The timescales for raising a chargeback are quite strict, 
and here the claim was raised with Co-op Bank over three years after the payments 
were made. So, I agree a claim couldnt have been made. For clarity, Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 isnt relevant in the circumstances as the payments 
dont involve any type of credit. 
In relation to the payment transfer - there isnt the same kind of protection in place for 
authorised push payment fraud that took place in 2016 as there would be for 
payments made now. Given the time that passed between the payments and the 
claim, I dont think it was unreasonable that Co-op Bank didnt do more to attempt to 
recover Mr and Mrs Cs payment.
So, for the reasons explained I dont think Co-op Bank has acted unfairly in declining 
Mr and Mrs Cs request for a refund.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman