DRN-2793998
The complaint
Ms M complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
unfairly declined her claim on her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
The history of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive only summarised events.
Ms M took out insurance with Red Sands for her pet dog in March 2020.
In July 2020 a claim was submitted for the treatment of Erythemic Skin.
Red Sands declined the claim saying the issue was pre-existing at the time the policy 
was taken out. It says the clinical history showed a consultation in early March 2020, 
approximately 2 weeks before the policy was taken out, which noted a skin allergy 
(possibly manage) Ventra Abdomen.
Red Sands added an exclusion to the policy for all claims with respect to skin 
conditions, backdated to inception of the policy. 
Ms M says the diagnosis in early March wasnt conclusive, and her dog did not have 
mange.
 
Our investigator did not doubt that Ms M was unaware of what the problem was with 
her dog as there hadnt been a confirmed diagnosis. However, she felt it was fair for 
Red Sands to rely on the exclusion for pre-existing conditions as Ms M was aware 
there was a problem which might need investigation or treatment in the future. And 
hadnt disclosed this to Red Sands.
Our investigator said Red Sands had provided evidence that had it known about the 
clinical history it wouldve added the skin conditions exclusion from the start date. So 
it was entitled to back date the exclusion.
Ms M remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view, and broadly for the same reasons, so Im 
not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy defines pre-existing conditions as any condition, symptom or sign of a 
condition occurring or existing in any form prior to or within the first 14 days of your 
policy commencement date. Im satisfied this is clear.
Within the application process Ms M was asked have you ever taken (dog) to the vet 
for anything other than routine vaccinations? And the answer recorded is no.
Ive looked at the clinical notes from the consultation with a vet in early March 2020 
and can see a prescription for the treatment of skin conditions was made. I find it 
reasonable that Ms M shouldve disclosed this information to Red Sands when she 
applied for insurance later the same month. And had this been disclosed Im satisfied 
Red Sands wouldve applied an exclusion for all claims with respect to skin 
conditions from inception.
Ive taken on board Ms Ms comments that the treatment claimed for isnt mange  
but this doesnt change my mind. Ms Ms dog had a clinical history indicating it had a 
skin condition prior to the policy start date. And Red Sands have shown this is the 
exclusion it wouldve applied from the start date.
So I think Red Sands has acted fairly and reasonably in backdating the exclusion and 
declining the claim. 
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman