DRN-2943864
The complaint
Mr S complains that the deposit amount shown on his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited is incorrect.
What happened
In April 2017 Mr S was supplied with a  car and entered into a personal contract purchase 
agreement with MBFS. The total amount repayable under the agreement was around 
£48,000 over a term of 4 years.
Mr S part exchanged his existing car as part of the transaction. He says he paid a holding 
deposit and a further deposit of £3500.
Later, when Mr S was thinking about terminating the agreement, he noticed that the deposit 
paid was shown as £1819.20 and not the £4000 he had paid.
Mr S complained to MBFS. In response, it said there was negative equity under his previous 
agreement and that the deposit figure in the current agreement was correct.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He says that negative 
equity wasnt mentioned at the time he entered into his current agreement.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He looked at the agreement and the new 
vehicle invoice and said the agreement showed the deposit as £1,619.20 and the invoice 
showed the negative equity as £2380.80, which together totalled the £4000 Mr S had paid.
The investigator said that even if the order date on the invoice was incorrect, this didnt 
invalidate the invoice or mean that it had falsified. The investigator also said that the failure 
by MBFs to provide a closing statement didnt make any difference to the overall outcome.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he wasnt in the country on the date shown as the order date on 
the invoice, and that the invoice didnt relate to his transaction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The essence of Mr Ss complaint is that he says he paid a deposit of £4000 towards the car, 
but that the deposit shown on his agreement (and used for the purposes of calculating the 
total amount payable under the agreement) is shown as a lesser sum of £1,619.20.
Mr S has provided receipts evidencing that he made payment totalling £4000 to the 
dealership. He also relies on a document provided to him by MBFS which doesnt refer to 
any negative equity under his previous finance agreement.
MBFS says that the agreement clearly shows the deposit paid was £1,619.20. It says the 
remainder of Mr Ss upfront payment of £4000 went towards the negative equity under his 
previous finance agreement.
Ive looked at the finance agreement and I can see that it clearly shows the deposit as 
£1,619.20. Mr S has signed the agreement, and I would have expected him to have read it 
before doing so. So, if Mr S hadnt agreed with the figures stated ion the agreement, I would 
have expected him to raise this at the time. Theres no evidence that he did so.
I can see that the receipts produced by Mr S show that he made payments to the dealer 
totalling £4000. This isnt in dispute. Its how those payments were applied that is in issue.
The dealership says it wouldnt have hidden the part exchange shortfall from Mr S at the 
time he entered into the agreement and that this wouldve been discussed with him. It also 
says that the new vehicle invoice provided to Mr S shows the negative equity figure.
Ive looked at the new vehicle invoice. This shows negative equity of £2,380.80 as net p/x 
allowance.
I understand that Mr S disputes the validity of the new vehicle invoice. He says the date on it 
(March 2017) is incorrect because he didnt order the vehicle until April 2017 and couldnt 
have ordered the car in March 2017 because he was out of the country.
This service asked the dealership about the date on the new vehicle invoice. It said that its 
common for a car to be ordered and the deposit paid several weeks later.
Mr S remains adamant that he didnt order the car in March 2017. There isnt enough 
information for me to be certain of exactly what happened here. Its possible that Mr S 
ordered the car before he paid the deposit. Its equally possible that theres an error on the 
invoice. I think its less likely that the dealership has deliberately falsified the invoice.
Even if the date on the invoice incorrect (for any reason), I dont agree that this invalidates 
the invoice or the finance agreement, or that it breaches any relevant legislation. Ive looked 
at the invoice Mr S has provided which shows a deposit of £4000. The settlement figure on 
this document is £18,880.80 and the p/x allowance for the car is £16,500. This means that 
there is a shortfall of £2380.80 which the dealership requires to pay off the old agreement 
from the £4000 paid by Mr S. The remainder (£1619.20) is the sum to be applied as deposit 
towards the new agreement.
Taking all the available information into account, Im of the view that part of Mr Ss payment 
of £4000 was used to pay the shortfall under his old finance agreement. The remainder was 
used as a deposit on the new agreement. I cant say that MBFS made a error or did anything 
wrong here.
Mr S has raised a further concern about MBFSs failure to provide him with a closing 
statement showing the value of his part exchange. MBFS has said that it provides its dealers 
with a  closing statement which shows a settlement figure, but that this statement wouldnt 
show negative equity because this is something that the dealer sorts out directly with the 
customer. On balance, I dont think the fact that the closing statement doesnt refer to any 
negative equity means that there wasnt any negative equity in Mr Ss old agreement.
I appreciate that Mr S is unhappy about some other issues surrounding the statement and 
the way in which NBFS handled his complaint. Ive taken account of everything Mr S has 
said, but my overall decision hasnt changed. I understand that Mr S feels that MBFS couldve handled things better, however, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity so Im 
unable to look at this aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
 
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman