DRN-3721896
The complaint
Mr S complains about poor customer service from Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) 
following a claim on his insurance policy.
What happened
To summarise, in February 2022, Mr S took out a policy to cover his TV. In March 2022 the 
TV was accidentally damaged and Mr S claimed on the policy. D&G accepted his claim and 
shortly after agreed to settle by replacing the TV. 
Mr S ordered his new TV on 26th March. The delivery date was later provided by the 
supplier. But Mr S cancelled the order the same day as he was reconsidering which model 
he wanted. Mr S says he then decided to stick with the original model so reordered. But the 
delivery didnt happen on 28th March as hed expected.   
Mr S called D&G to sort things out. He complained hed taken time off work and was still 
without a TV. There appears to have been a further mix-up with the second order. But an 
agent was able to process that for Mr S with delivery taking place shortly thereafter.
D&G didnt uphold his complaint. It said that in cancelling the original order, the delivery from 
the supplier was also cancelled. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He said that 
D&G had fulfilled its role as the insurer but that the responsibility for fulfilling the order lay 
with the supplier. He didnt thing D&G had done anything wrong. 
Mr S remained unhappy, so his complaint has come to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge the frustration Mr S has expressed about what happened. I 
understand he took time off work, expecting his TV to be delivered on 28th March. He was 
without a TV for about two weeks and Im also aware he spent time on the phone trying to 
resolve things. All of this was inconvenient. However, my role is to decide whether D&G has 
done anything wrong, and if so, what needs to happen to put things right. 
As the insurer, D&G was responsible for assessing Mr Ss claim. It did this, ultimately 
authorising a replacement product. The claims process then allows the customer to select 
the desired replacement product, delivery of which is arranged by the supplier. Mr S 
changed his mind about which TV he wanted. And unfortunately, he didnt realise that 
cancelling his original order meant the original delivery slot linked to that order would also be 
cancelled. 
I can understand that Mr S thought his TV would still be delivered on the date hed originally 
been given. But this was his assumption. I dont think D&G has made an error here. It 
accepted his claim and authorised a replacement TV promptly. The issues that followed with 
the delivery date were not down to D&G. So I dont think D&G needs to do anything further 
regarding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman