DRN-3304377
The complaint
Mr R complains that Society of Lloyds unfairly avoided his jewellery insurance policy after 
he made a claim for a lost ring.
References to Lloyds include its agents.
What happened
In mid-2021 Mr R made a claim on his jewellery insurance policy with Lloyds because the 
ring it covered had been lost. 
After reviewing the information relating to Mr Rs claim, Lloyds decided to avoid the policy 
from inception. It said that Mr R hadnt disclosed that he had County Court Judgments 
(CCJs) when he took out the policy. Lloyds said it wouldnt have accepted the risk and 
issued the insurance policy if it had been aware of this. It said it would return the premium  
Mr R had paid and would be unable to proceed with his claim.
Mr R said he wasnt aware of the CCJs when he applied for the policy. He complained to 
Lloyds but it maintained its position, so he asked our service to look into the matter.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
He thought Lloyds had acted fairly and reasonably. He was satisfied Lloyds had asked a 
clear question about whether Mr R had been subject to a CCJ and he wasnt persuaded    
Mr R had taken reasonable care to answer it accurately.
Mr R disagreed with our investigators view. He said there was no proof that he knew about 
the CCJs. They were from years before when he wasnt residing in the country, meaning he 
had never needed to check credit scores. There was no benefit for him to lie on an insurance 
document as this would mean he was uninsured. If hed known about the CCJs he would 
have got insurance from a company who accepted them. So, Mr Rs complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Reasonable care
Lloyds says Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
failed to disclose his CCJs in his online application for the policy.
Its referred to the statement of fact section of Mr Rs policy schedule which says:
Declaration
You must take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to the insurer. This means 
that all the answers you give and statements you make as part of your insurance application, 
including at renewal and when an amendment to your policy is required, should be honest 
and accurate. If you deliberately or carelessly misinform the Insurers, this could mean that 
part of or all of a claim may not be paid.
One of the questions beneath this is:
Have you or any company you have controlled ever been declared bankrupt or been the 
subject of any bankruptcy proceedings, county court judgment, individual voluntary 
arrangement or debt relief order?
This has been answered No.
Im satisfied that the question Lloyds asked was clear and unambiguous. It also made Mr R 
aware of the importance of checking that the information he provided was correct.
After Mr R made his claim, Lloyds found that two CCJs had been registered against him  in 
2015 and 2017. Mr R says he wasnt aware of the CCJs when he took out the policy. He 
says he was living overseas from 2015 to 2018. He says he only became aware of the CCJs 
a couple of days after making the claim, when he was applying for a mortgage. 
Mr R says he lived at the address the CCJs were registered at before and after his time 
overseas. This was his grandparents house. But he says the CCJs werent passed on to 
him and has mentioned that his grandparent has dementia.
Lloyds says it believes Mr R would likely have received reminders relating to the unresolved 
CCJs for the time he was back at his grandparents address. Mr R said hed lived there from 
when he returned from overseas up until March 2020. 
I appreciate Mr R feels Lloyds should have to prove that he knew about the CCJs. But I 
think its reasonable for Lloyds to have concluded that Mr R should have been aware of at 
least one of the CCJs. Mr R has commented that there wasnt any need to check his credit 
scores for the time he was residing outside of the country. But he says hed returned to his 
former address in the UK in 2018 and remained there until March 2020. So, it seems likely 
that he would have received further correspondence regarding his unresolved CCJs during 
that time frame.
Qualifying misrepresentationIf a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies providing the 
misrepresentation is, what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
Lloyds has provided confirmation from a senior underwriter that it would have denied cover 
if it had been made aware of Mr Rs CCJ. So, Im satisfied that Mr Rs misrepresentation was 
a qualifying one. 
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Lloyds has treated the misrepresentation made by Mr R as careless rather than deliberate 
or reckless. I think this is fair. If a qualifying breach is careless and the insurer wouldnt have 
provided the insurance on any terms, it may avoid the policy and refuse all claims, but it 
must return the premiums. And from what Ive seen and been told, this is what Lloyds has 
done.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr R, but overall, I think Lloyds has acted fairly 
and reasonably, in line with the relevant law and the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman