DRN-2093626
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc are holding him liable for expenditure on a credit 
card he didnt apply for in 2014. Mr M wants the payments he made to the account refunded 
and the debt written off. 
What happened
Mr M had a current account with Santander. In late 2013, Mr M separated from his wife and 
moved in with his brother. Mr M has explained that he came and went from his brothers 
address but had his post delivered to the address. And that he didnt always get on with his 
brothers family.
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties are aware of which transactions 
are in dispute.
In late 2019, Mr M received a letter from Santander saying he owed just over £500 on a 
credit card that had been taken out in branch in December 2013. The credit card had been 
used to make three separate transactions between 27 and 30 March 2014, at the same retail 
store, totalling just under £1,000. The balance of the credit card was being cleared by 
minimum payments each month via direct debits from Mr Ms current account.
 
Mr M said he never applied for the credit card. And hadnt received the card or made the 
transactions in 2014. He explained that he checked his current account statement to 
manage his accounts and believed that the direct debit payments being made to the credit 
card were fees he had to pay for his current account. Mr M said that he believed his brother 
has impersonated him to open the credit card account and had been opening his post at 
their address in an effort to hide the debt from him over the years as he often noticed his 
letters had been opened when he picked up his post from his brothers house.
Mr M complained to Santander. He said its not fair to hold him liable for the debt and said he 
didnt have any knowledge of the card or payments. 
Santander investigated, it concluded that Mr M had taken out the credit card and was liable 
for the debt. In summary it said:
The credit card account had been opened in person in branch and Mr Ms identity 
was verified using his debit card chip and PIN for his current account.
The credit card and PIN were sent separately to the address he provided and when 
the initial card was blocked, a new card was also sent to the same address.
No new PIN was required and when the card was replaced three transactions were 
made. And no further transactions were made or attempted.
Credit card statements had been sent to Mr Ms address since the account was 
opened for several years, so Mr M wouldve been aware of the account and 
transactions.
Direct debits were collected from Mr Ms current account each month until Santander 
asked Mr M to increase his direct debit amount due to the length of time the debt had 
existed.
Mr M disagreed with Santanders decision. He maintained that he never took out the credit 
card or made the transactions. So, he said its unfair for Santander to hold him liable for the 
balance. Unhappy with the banks response Mr M brought his complaint to our service where 
one of our investigators looked into his complaint.
 
The investigator asked Mr M some questions about the credit card account. Mr M insisted 
that hed never taken out the credit card and that it must have been his brother who had 
impersonated him. However, he didnt explain how his brother would have been able to gain 
access to his debit card and PIN, which was used to open the account in branch.
Based on the evidence the investigator thought Mr M had applied for the credit card, more 
likely than not authorised the transactions and called Mr M to let him know what hed 
decided about the complaint. During the call Mr M changed his story. He admitted that hed 
taken out the credit card. But he maintained hed never made the transactions and wants 
Santander to stop chasing him to repay the outstanding balance.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr M and Santander have read the 
investigators view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of 
my decision. However, I can assure Mr M that Ive read the file, including his comments and 
evidence. 
One of the difficulties in this case is that its not very clear exactly what happened or how it 
happened. Mr M has changed his account of the key events, which are significant details 
that go to the heart of this complaint. This makes it very difficult for me to place much weight 
on what hes said. So, Ive got to consider what I think is likely to have happened here, and 
how Mr M was involved. 
When Mr M brought his complaint to this service, he said he hadnt taken out the credit card. 
However, he has since admitted that he did apply for the credit card. Ive also seen the 
evidence provided by Santander which shows Mr M applied for the credit card in branch and 
used his debit card chip and PIN to verify his identity. So overall, I believe theres enough 
evidence to show Mr M applied for the credit card in his name. 
I next turn to the transactions which were made with the card in March 2014, which Mr M 
disputes. Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr M 
authorised the payments, Santander is entitled to hold him liable. The relevant regulations, 
to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 2009). Mr M says he 
didnt make the disputed transactions, so my primary concern is to come to a view about 
whether or not I think Mr M authorised the transactions either by making them himself or 
allowing a third party to do so. 
 
Having reviewed Santanders technical evidence, Im satisfied that Mr Ms card details were 
used to make the disputed transactions and that they were authenticated. Authentication is 
the use of any procedure by which a bank is able to verify the use of a specific payment 
instrument, including its personalised security features. This can be done in a number of 
ways (e.g. chip and PIN, card number, CVV and expiry date etc.) Santander has provided evidence that the transactions Mr M disputed was authorised by Chip and PIN. So, Im 
satisfied that the payment from Mr Ms account was authenticated. 
But, the regulations relevant to this case say that this is not on its own enough to enable 
Santander to hold Mr M liable for the transactions. So, I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr M consented to the transactions 
being made or whether he is the victim of fraud as hes alleged. 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im persuaded that Mr M did consent to the transactions 
he is disputing. I say this because:
Santander sent the credit card and PIN to Mr Ms home address, which he said was 
his brothers address. But theres no evidence of Mr M contacting Santander to let 
them know he hadnt received the card.
Santanders technical evidence shows that Mr Ms genuine card and PIN were used 
to authenticate each of the disputed transactions. This means that whoever made the 
transactions needed to be in possession of both Mr Ms credit card and his PIN.
Mr M hasnt provided a plausible explanation for how someone else was able to 
become aware of his PIN.
The first disputed transaction took place on 27 March 2014, followed by two more on 
29 March and 30 March 2014.  I dont think an opportunistic thief wouldve waited 
from late 2013 and used Mr Ms card over a period of about a week because theyd 
be a high risk of Mr M reporting his card stolen and cancelling it before the thief could 
use it. 
The disputed transactions dont fit the usual pattern of fraud. Usually a fraudster will 
try and maximise the usage of the account in order to get the greatest benefit from 
the account before the account holder notices their funds are missing and the card is 
cancelled. But this didnt happen, and the transactions stopped after only three had 
been made. If someone else had possession of Mr Ms card and PIN (as hes 
suggested) Id expect the fraudster to carry on using the card. 
I can see that Santander sent Mr M a new card, but this wasnt used. 
Mr M has spent years making minimum payments towards the credit card balance 
from his current account. Hes said that he believed he was just paying the fees 
associated with his account. I dont find this explanation plausible. The amounts 
varied each month and Santander were sending Mr M letters about the outstanding 
balance. So, I think its likely Mr M knew that he was paying money onto his credit 
card.
Ive kept in mind that Mr M has said that his brother was opening his letters and 
concealing his post, if this was the case, Id expect Mr M to do something about this, 
but I havent seen any evidence that Mr M took steps to secure his post. On the 
balance of probabilities, I dont think its likely that Mr Ms brother could have 
concealed his post and covered up what was happening since 2014. 
In summary, when I weigh everything up, Im not satisfied theres evidence of fraud here. In 
my view the most likely explanation here is that Mr M applied for the credit card and 
authorised the disputed transactions. So, in the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to 
ask Santander to refund Mr M the disputed transactions. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman