DRN-2499309
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of an escape of water
claim made under his home insurance policy.
All references to Fairmead include its appointed agents.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr K told Fairmead his toilet was leaking. He said a plumber had attended
the leak and found it had caused damage to the bathroom area. In November 2019 Mr K
then made a claim for the damage under his home insurance policy.
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. The loss adjuster concluded
there was an eligible claim and requested a quote for the repairs from Mr K.
Upon reviewing the quote Fairmead made an offer to settle the claim. It didnt include repairs
to the shower area as it said there was no damage present there when it attended the
property. Mr K disputed this and Fairmead made a revised settlement offer to include
material costs for some of the shower floor area. But it declined the remainder of the quote
because it said some of the wall tiles were defective and as such excluded from the policy
cover.
Mr K disagreed with Fairmeads assessment of the damage and complained. He said there
was now a second leak occurring which was causing further damage. And he said
Fairmeads offer was nowhere near enough what it was going to cost him to do the repairs.
Fairmead responded to Mr K. It said any damage arising from the second leak would need to
be considered as a separate claim. Fairmead said it had reviewed the cash settlement offer
and was satisfied it fairly reflected the damage it was liable for under the policy. It said that if
further damage was found during repairs then Mr K should stop works and submit photos for
review. Fairmead did acknowledge there were some delays in handling the claim and offered
Mr K £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with Fairmeads response, Mr K referred his complaint to our service. Our
investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. They
found Fairmead had fairly relied on the exclusion for faulty workmanship to decline part of
the claim. And they said Fairmeads offer reflected the insured damage caused by the
escape of water event.
Mr K disagreed with our investigators opinion. He said he accepted some of the shower tiles
were faulty but couldnt see how the repairs could be done without replacing these tiles and
the tanking. He said he was concerned that Fairmead hadnt addressed the internal leak in
his toilet, about having two claims, and that all of this should be considered in its settlement
offer.
Our investigator responded to Mr Ks points and said they hadnt found any evidence the
wall tiles would need to be replaced as part of the repairs for the water damage. Instead, the
reason for the replacement was due to faulty workmanship so it wouldnt have been needed
at all if the original tiles were fit for purpose. The investigator added that Mr Ks policy didnt
provide cover to fix the source of the damage, so they were satisfied the costs for this didnt
need to be included in Fairmeads settlement figure. And they said that whilst the leak came
from the same source, they were satisfied it was fair for Fairmead to treat this as a separate
claim.
Mr K asked for an ombudsmans decision. He accepted the source of the leak wasnt
covered by the policy. But in addition to the points previously made, he questioned whether
a new claim would be set up each time there was more damage and linked this to the cost of
his policy by having multiple claims on it.
The complaint was passed to me and on 22 March 2021 I set out in my provisional decision 
why I felt Fairmead should pay more towards Mr Ks claim. Ive repeated an extract below:
Mr K has provided our service with further quotes for the work required, which include
comments on the extent of the water damage. And the costs seem to have increased
significantly from the original quote he gave to Fairmead. Before issuing my decision,
I forwarded the new quotes to Fairmead for comment and to try and resolve matters now,
but Fairmead didnt wish for these new quotes or issues to be included in this complaint.
So, if Mr K is unhappy with Fairmeads response to his most recent quotes, then our service
will consider this as a separate matter. For now, I will comment on the original quote Mr K
provided and on which Fairmead based its offer of settlement and final response letter.
Mr Ks policy covers him for an escape of water event as defined in his policy documents.
But Fairmead has relied on an exclusion in the policy which states, Your insurer will not
pay for loss or damagevi) Arising from poor design, defective materials, or faulty
workmanship; to decline part of the repair costs.
I dont think this type of exclusion is unusual in buildings insurance policies. So my role here
is to see if Fairmead has fairly shown this exclusion applies in Mr Ks claim.
Ive considered the report from the initial quote provided by Mr K for the repairs alongside
the report from Fairmeads loss adjuster. Mr Ks plumber states, the shower area walls
have split face tiles running inside the shower and around the walls, a tile has been removed
from this area which has exposed a damp patch to the wall. These tiles are unsuitable in wet
areas even with tanking as the water/moisture can get trapped behind the wallsWe highly
recommend that these are replacedto avoid a hazard or injury in the not too distant future.
Fairmeads loss adjuster states, Damage to the tiled walls is not visible and not in my
opinion consistent with an escape of water from the wc [sic]. The tiled walls are undamaged
and in good condition requiring no works to remove and replace.
So as I see it, I think there are two problems here which have contributed to the repairs
being quoted for. And I think both reports reach a similar conclusion  the damage to the
shower tiles was found as a damp patch on the wall behind the removed tile. Neither report
concludes the tiles themselves were damaged as things stood, and Ive not seen anything
persuasive to show the leak from the toilet contributed to the damp behind that wall or the
breach of the tanking that Mr K says happened. Ive also not seen any evidence to show the
strip out of the shower wall was required at this stage for an effective and lasting repair of
the water damage caused by the toilet leak.Instead, it seems the tiles were deemed unsuitable and so the replacement tile works have
been built into the overall repair costs. As Fairmead is only liable for escape of water
damage caused by the toilet leak, I find it reasonable for it to rely on the poor workmanship
exclusion for the shower tile repairs.
Mr K has raised concerns that Fairmead are dealing with this under two separate claims, as
he reported the toilet leaked a second time. And hes said he believes that every bit of
damage the leak causes will result in an additional claim. I understand why Mr K would have
concerns about this, but I cant see that hes asked Fairmead to look into this as part of his
original complaint. So I will ask it to do so outside of this decision. If Fairmead wishes, it can
respond to this point following receipt of my provisional findings and I will address it in my
final decision. If Fairmead doesnt wish to respond to this now and Mr K remains unhappy
about how Fairmead has recorded his claim, I think our service will need to consider that as
a separate matter.
In terms of the scope of works proposed, I think Fairmead has identified the areas it is liable
for on the evidence it had at the time, and I havent seen anything unreasonable in how it
has worked this out. But Fairmead has confirmed it has offered a settlement based on its
own rates, which it says it does when it is prepared to do the work itself. However, I cant see
that Fairmead offered for its own contractors to repair the damage here. And, Ive not seen
any evidence to show Mr K intended to force a cash settlement on Fairmead. So it doesnt
appear Mr K was given any other option than to provide his own quote.
So for this reason, it doesnt seem reasonable for Fairmead to settle the claim at its own cost
here. I think a fair settlement means that Fairmead should settle at the cost to Mr K, subject 
to reasonable quotes being provided. Mr K provided some examples of this to our service, 
but as far as I can see, these were based on the most recent quotes, and as such Fairmead
must be given the opportunity to review these. But the principle of a fair cash settlement at
reasonable cost to Mr K would still apply here.
Alternatively, if Mr K wishes for Fairmead to carry out the repairs with him making a
contribution for the areas Fairmead isnt liable for, then this should also be an option.
Fairmeads offer must include any uninsured works which Mr K requires to achieve an
effective and lasting repair from the damage. But it doesnt need to include anything which
Ive decided it has fairly shown isnt necessary to fix the damage from the toilet leak.
Fairmead offered Mr K £100 compensation for poor service which he hasnt accepted yet.
Having reviewed everything, I agree there was an avoidable delay in getting the original
quote from Mr K  who said he sent it on the same day the loss adjuster visited the property.
And I can see there was some miscommunication between the loss adjuster and Mr K at the
beginning of the claim. But it appears the matter moved forward normally once the quote
was received. So overall, I think Fairmeads offer of compensation is reasonable in the
circumstances of this case, and Ill require it to pay this amount to Mr K.
In summary, I proposed that to put things right for Mr K, Fairmead should:
Reconsider the quote provided by Mr K and make an offer of settlement on the
damage it is liable for in line with what it would cost Mr K to do the repairs, or;
Offer to do the necessary repair work, with Mr K making a contribution towards the
damage Fairmead has shown it isnt liable for;
Pay Mr K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.Developments
Mr K and Fairmead both responded to my provisional decision, and Ill summarise their 
points below.
Mr K said:
As the flooring of the bathroom was damaged by the leak, the tanking would also 
need replacing as it was all connected, and the tanking gets damaged when part of 
the floor is removed.
It followed that the damaged tanking proves the tiles need replacing, as it wasnt 
possible to replace the tanking without replacing tiles.
Mr K also removed one of the tiles that was claimed to be defective and said the wall 
was dry behind, so any damage must have been caused by the leak and not 
because of the defective split tiles. Mr K maintained that the split tiles needed 
replacing as it wasnt possible to replace the tiles in that specific area without 
removing them also.
Fairmead said:
Mr K had been explicit that he wanted his own contractors to do the repair works, and 
these had already started by the time he made the claim. Fairmead did acknowledge 
that it couldnt see it had offered for its own contractor to do the works at any point.
It was fair to use its own rates to cash settle this claim, as otherwise it would give     
Mr K license to use whoever he liked with no opportunity to control the costs.
It couldnt see that Mr K had registered a second leak with them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill now comment on the responses made by both parties below.
It is worth me mentioning at this point that the role of our service is to resolve issues 
between parties as they are brought to us  usually up to the point a business issues its final 
response to a consumer. Where matters remain outstanding we will do our best to resolve 
them between the parties, but its simply not possible for me to provide an ongoing 
commentary as new evidence and issues are brought to light.
In my provisional decision I set out why the issues with the new quotes Mr K provided 
remained unresolved. And having reconsidered everything I see no reason to change my 
position here. My findings were based on the initial quote Mr K provided and the loss 
adjuster report, and on balance I am still persuaded that as things stood Fairmead applied 
the exclusion for defective workmanship fairly to part of the claim.
I would however recommend Fairmead assesses Mr Ks new quotes as a matter of priority 
so it can provide an explanation on the tanking issue and adjust its cash settlement if it 
deems it necessary. This may also require a further loss adjuster visit. Any concerns Mr K 
has arising from this would need to be decided as a separate matter outside of this decision.
With regard to Mr Ks concerns about a second claim being recorded, as Fairmead hasnt 
found evidence of this in response to my provisional decision I will arrange for our service to 
provide the relevant evidence for it to investigate the issue further and respond to Mr K on 
this point.Ive considered Fairmeads comments in relation to the cash settlement, but Im still not 
persuaded it is fair to apply their own rates here. I dont think it would be reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case to penalise Mr K for how things progressed with the leak. And if 
the overall costs of the repair become prohibitive then it would still follow that Fairmead can 
offer for its own contractors to do the works, with Mr K contributing to the uninsured works.  
Fairmeads main concern is that a cash settlement outside of its rates would mean it loses 
control of the claim costs, but I dont agree. The principle of a cash settlement such as this is 
that a settlement is made at reasonable cost to the consumer. As I set out and explained in 
my provisional decision:
I think a fair settlement means that Fairmead should settle at the cost to Mr K, subject to
reasonable quotes being provided. Mr K provided some examples of this to our service, 
but as far as I can see, these were based on the most recent quotes, and as such Fairmead
must be given the opportunity to review these. But the principle of a fair cash settlement 
at reasonable cost to Mr K would still apply here.
It is not for me to decide at this stage whether Mr Ks most recent quotes are reasonable for 
the repair work that needs doing. But the original quote provided did seem reasonable, so I 
will direct Fairmead to reconsider this quote and make an offer of settlement on the damage 
it is liable for, in line with what it would cost Mr K to do the repairs. 
I appreciate my findings dont resolve the matter or claim for Mr K. But I hope my 
explanations above help both parties move towards a swift conclusion of this claim.
So having reconsidered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons. Ill now direct Fairmead to put things right as set 
out below.
Putting things right
Reconsider the initial quote provided by Mr K and make an offer of settlement on the
damage it is liable for in line with what it would cost Mr K to do the repairs, or;
Offer to do the necessary repair work, with Mr K making a contribution towards the
damage Fairmead has shown it isnt liable for;
Pay Mr K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Fairmead Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman