DRN-2972312
The complaint
Mr T complains about Wirecard Card Solutions Limited decision to close his account and 
return his money to the original senders.  
What happened
 In July 2020, Wirecard blocked Mr Ts account while they carried out a review. Mr T says he 
wasnt given any prior notice about the block or review, and Wirecard didnt ask him any 
questions about anything to do with his account.
In August 2020, Wirecard removed the money from Mr Ts account. They sent him a 
message on their app to let him know that the funds were being returned to the last payers in 
Mr Ts account. 
Mr T said this caused him financial difficulty. He explained to our service that he was a 
tradesman, and this was his salary money. He also explained that hed received two credits 
from HMRC which he had proof of entitlement for. Mr T got in touch with some of the original 
senders of the money, and they explained to Mr T they hadnt received any money back. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ts complaint. He was satisfied Wirecard could review and close 
Mr Ts account  but he didnt think theyd carried out a thorough investigation to satisfy 
them that Mr T wasnt entitled to the money. So, he asked them to return the full balance to 
Mr T plus 8% simple interest.
Mr T agreed, but Wirecard didnt. They said they were entitled to send the money back to the 
original senders, and they hadnt received any bounce backs so was satisfied the money 
had been sent.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the investigators view that the complaint should be upheld. 
Ive explained my reasons below. 
The account review and closure
Wirecard are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied Wirecard was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Mr Ts account in July 2020. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong.
While Wirecard are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a timely 
manner and without undue manner. Wirecard initially blocked Mr Ts account on 15 July 
2020. I havent seen any evidence to show the actions Wirecard took during the review, but 
Im satisfied they didnt ask Mr T any questions about the management of his account. When 
banks carry out reviews, its common practice across the banking industry that the review 
will require additional information from the account holder. Often, the information required is 
related to the consumers identity, proof of entitlement to recent payments or more details on 
what the account is used for. Based on the evidence Ive seen, and alongside Mr Ts 
testimony, Wirecard didnt ask Mr T any questions as part of their review.
Wirecard decided to end their relationship with Mr T in August 2020. Banks sometimes 
choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a number of reasons, 
and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same as if Mr T decided 
to stop banking with Wirecard, he wouldnt have to explain why. Wirecard can only close 
accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of the account. 
Wirecard have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Ts account.
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. Wirecard exercised
their right to no longer offer Mr T banking facilities and I've seen nothing to suggest that
theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently on this
part.
The money left in Mr Ts account
When Wirecard decided to close Mr Ts account, they decided to return the money left in the 
account to source. I think it would have been helpful if Wirecard asked Mr T for proof of 
entitlement to these funds as part of their review. They didnt and therefore Ive had to 
consider whether it was fair to them to return the money to source. While Mr T isnt aware of 
the reasons for the review and closure of his account, he did provide documentation to our 
service to show that the money in the account rightfully belonged to him. Had Wirecard 
asked Mr T for this information, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr T would have been 
able to supply it. And, on the balance of probabilities, based on the information Mr T has 
provided to our service, I think its more likely than not, Wirecard could have given the 
money back to Mr T directly, rather than returning it to the original senders.
Ive thought carefully about Wirecards comments. They say they were entitled to return the 
money to source and have supplied their own evidence to justify that. Ive considered what 
Wirecard has relied on, and I agree in usual circumstances, this would be reasonable. 
However, Im not satisfied that Wirecard carried out a thorough enough review on Mr Ts 
account to make the decision they did. Ultimately, Wirecard should be satisfied that Mr T 
wasnt entitled to the money to return it back to the original senders. And as they didnt ask 
Mr T for any proof of entitlement, I dont find any plausible explanation as to how they 
satisfied themselves that Mr T wasnt entitled to it.
To date, Mr T is still without his money. Hes attempted to contact the original senders who 
Wirecard say the money was sent back to. Mr T has supplied a bank statement from one of 
the individuals to show that they havent received the money. I cant reasonably say the bank 
statement alone persuades me that the money wasnt returned. However, I dont think its 
entirely relevant. I say that because, I dont think Wirecard were fair in returning the money 
to source. So even if the payments had been sent, Im still of the opinion that Wirecard didnt 
carry out a thorough enough investigation to satisfy themselves, or me while considering this 
complaint, that Mr T wasnt entitled to the money. It therefore follows that I think Wirecard 
should refund Mr T the full balance which was left in his account when they closed it in 
August 2020.I also dont think its reasonable that Mr T has been without his money for a long period of 
time. So, like our investigator, I think 8% simple interest should be paid on this amount. As 
Ive found Wirecard were entitled to review Mr Ts account, I think the appropriate date to 
pay the interest from is when they first decided to return the money to source, up to the date 
they refund it to Mr T.
Putting things right
Overall, I find Wirecards actions when reviewing and subsequently closing Mr Ts account
were fair. But I dont think Wirecard did enough to satisfy themselves that Mr T wasnt 
entitled to the money in the account  so I think they should refund him as he is now at a 
loss. And I think adding interest to the amount they refund him fairly compensates Mr T for 
the time he was without his money 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint. Wirecard Card Solutions Limited should 
do the following:
Refund Mr T the amount of money left in his account on the date of closure  12 
August 2020;
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they refund Mr T. They 
should calculate this from the date they refunded the money to source to the date 
they refund Mr T.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to withhold 
income tax from the above-mentioned interest. Wirecard should give Mr T a 
certificate showing how much is taken off if Mr T asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman