DRN-3853041
The complaint
Mr S complains about the settlement esure Insurance Limited paid him for the total loss of 
his car after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr Ss car was declared a total loss and esure offered him £7,233 in settlement of his claim. 
It said this was the cars market value at the date of its loss. But Mr S said his car was worth 
about £11,200. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt find a 
valuation in the motor trade guides we use for Mr Ss car with all its factory-fitted options. But 
she obtained a bespoke valuation of the car at £9,895. Mr S provided a dealers valuation 
that was higher, but she thought this wasnt reliable. She also considered adverts for similar 
cars and noted the prices were considerably higher than esures offer. So she thought the 
bespoke valuation was the fairest. She thought esure should pay Mr S the difference, 
£2,662, with interest.
Mr S agreed with this. But esure said it had followed our approach in using the motor trade 
guides to obtain a valuation. It said the optional extras wouldnt add much value for a car that 
was 15 years old. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. I can see that his 
policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. The Investigator has 
explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but 
look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. But, whilst this 
is our general approach, car valuation isnt an exact science. 
Mr S provided adverts for cars similar to his advertised for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
But I have looked at these adverts and can see that the selling prices are significantly higher 
than esures settlement offer. In the most comparable example Ive seen, the difference is 
about 30% more than esures offer. This is more than wed usually see when a seller 
includes its profit and leeway for negotiation.
Mr S also provided a valuation from a dealership. But I agree with esure that this should be 
discounted as it is likely to favour the consumer due to the dealerships financial interest. 
esure said it correctly followed our guidelines and looked for valuations of Mr Ss car in four 
of the trade guides we use. Three of the guides provided valuations and esure took an 
average of these to reach a settlement offer of £7,233. I can see that it looked for a car of 
the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Ss car at the date of its loss. 
But I cant see that it looked for the same specification. Mr Ss car was unusual as it had all 
the possible optional extras factory fitted, costing about £12,000. Mr S has provided an 
invoice from the dealership to show this. And I think its reasonable for these optional extras 
to be considered in the valuation of the cars market value. 
Our Investigator looked in the guides for cars with these options, but no valuations were 
provided. esure said that in a car so old they would have little remaining value. I can see that 
esure could have looked in the guides for valuations with the optional extras, but it didnt do 
this. It looked just for the basic model. 
So, in keeping with our approach, our Investigator obtained a bespoke valuation for Mr Ss 
car with these optional extras included. And this led to a valuation of £9,895 as some of the 
extras were thought to be particularly desirable. I think this is more in keeping with the 
advertised prices for similar cars. And so I think it provides a fair and reasonable valuation of 
Mr Ss car at the date of loss.
esure paid Mr S less than this valuation. And so, as Mr S has been without his money for 
some time, I think it should reasonably pay him interest on the difference. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr S £2,662 more in settlement of his claim for the 
loss of his car. It should add interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 
the date of the initial payment to the date of final settlement. 
If esure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman