DRN-2256520
The complaint
Mr M complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company refused to pay his claim on his car 
insurance following an incident.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr M took out a car insurance policy with Southern Rock. It was to cover a car 
he had acquired as part of a divorce settlement. 
In June that year he was involved in an accident and made a claim on the insurance. On 
assessing the vehicle Southern Rock said that it wouldnt cover the claim and would cancel 
Mr Ms policy. It also said it would pursue Mr M for third party costs. It said this was because 
he had discovered the value of the car was much higher than Mr M stated when the policy 
was taken out. And that the date of purchase wasnt correct. 
Mr M didnt think this was fair. He said he had estimated the value of the vehicle but it had 
been his ex-wife who had originally bought it so he didnt know how much it had cost. He 
said he had given the date he acquired the car as part of the divorce settlement as the date 
of purchase. He made a complaint to Southern Rock.
Southern Rock didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it had valued Mr Ms car at £59,000 
but Mr M had said it was worth £30,000. It said if the correct value had been given at the 
time the policy had been taken out, it wouldnt have provided the policy. It said Mr M should 
have known the value of the car he gave was inaccurate, particularly as it was expensive 
when first purchased two years previously. 
Mr M didnt think this was fair. He brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said that Mr M gave incorrect information about the value and the date of purchase. And 
Southern Rock had shown that it wouldnt have offered the policy if the correct value had 
been given. So she said it had acted fairly by cancelling the policy and refusing the claim.
Mr M didnt think this was fair and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Southern Rock thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he was asked about the value of his car when he was taking out the policy.
Southern Rock has provided a recording of this call. Ive listened to the call and the 
conversation around the value of the car was as follows. The advisor asked whats the 
market value of the vehicle and Mr M answered Id say £30,000. The advisor then went on 
to ask When did you purchase the vehicle? and Mr M answered today. 
Ive considered this conversation. The question asked by the insurer about the value of the 
car is clear. It was asking what the market value would be on the day. The answer provided 
by Mr M is clearly an estimate. And since then Southern Rock has provided valuations from 
trade guides that show that the value is around £59,000. So his answer was incorrect. So I 
need to consider if Mr M took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
answering. 
Mr M has said he didnt know the value of the car when it was originally bought as his wife 
had purchased it two years prior. I understand this and agree this would have made an 
estimate difficult. However the fact Mr M was unsure of the value of the car would 
reasonably mean that he would have been aware that the amount he gave as a valuation 
would be a guess. So he knowingly gave the insurer an answer that he knew would have 
could have been incorrect. So for that reason I dont think he took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when answering the question.
I now need to decide if there has been a qualifying misrepresentation. To do this, I need to 
consider whether the fact Mr M didnt give accurate information made a difference to the 
policy cover Southern Rock provided.
Southern Rock has provided a copy of the criteria used by its underwriters when considering 
a new application for insurance. From looking at this I am satisfied that it wouldnt have 
provided Mr M with a policy f he had given the correct value of his car.
This means Im satisfied Mr Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Under CIDRA a qualifying misrepresentation is either deliberate, reckless or careless. And 
the available remedy will depend on which one of these categories the misrepresentation 
falls into. It is for the insurer to prove that a misrepresentation is either deliberate or reckless. 
Otherwise it is considered careless. Southern Rock has said Mr Ms misrepresentation was 
deliberate as it says he would have known how much the car had been originally purchased 
for and therefore should have realised his valuation was particularly low.
Ive considered this and Im not persuaded that the misrepresentation was deliberate. In 
order to be, I would need to be satisfied that Mr M purposefully undervalued the car. From 
listening to the call, and considering all the evidence provided, I dont believe there is 
enough to say that Mr M misrepresented purposefully. As Southern Rock has failed to prove 
the misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless then I will consider it careless.
CIDRA says where a qualifying misrepresentation has occurred, and it is considered 
careless, then the insurer can refuse all claims, avoid the policy, but should refund the policy premiums. So I am satisfied that Southern Rock acted fairly by refusing Mr Ms claim. 
However it hasnt refunded Mr Ms insurance premiums. So I will require it to refund Mr M 
the premiums he paid for the whole policy year in order to meet its obligations under CIDRA. 
Since the complaint has come to me I have put this to Southern Rock and to this course of 
action.
I will also require Southern Rock to pay Mr M 8% simple interest on the premiums from the 
date the claim should have been settled until the date the payment is made, to make up for 
the time Mr M has been without the money.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require Southern Rock Insurance Company to:
Refund Mr M the premiums paid for the relevant policy year.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the claim should have been paid 
until the date payment is made.*
*If Southern Rock Insurance Company considers it should deduct income tax from any 8% 
interest element of my award it may do so, but should give Mr M the necessary certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman