DRN-2838886
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mr and Mrs K payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2003.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing the complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have been 
mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs K have said they were never aware that PPI was added to their account, and 
that it was just included in the mortgage package.  
The PPI started about 19 years ago, and I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail 
everything that happened so long ago. But that does mean it can be difficult to know whether 
its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
And, in fact, there are documents that support Nationwides claim that Mr and Mrs K were 
aware of the PPI at the time, and actively chose to take it. The mortgage application form, 
which they both signed, also included the PPI application. And this shows that Mr and Mrs K 
chose to take just unemployment cover, rather than also including the usual accident and 
sickness cover. So this suggests there was a discussion with the Nationwide adviser.
The form explained that the PPI was at first free but that, after the free period, monthly 
premiums would be charged which could be collected alongside the mortgage payment. And 
I can see that there was a letter from Nationwide a year later, saying that the free period was 
ending. It said Mr and Mrs K could phone if they wanted to discuss changes to their cover. It 
also told them about their cancellation rights. 
So I do think its most likely Mr and Mrs K chose to take PPI even if, not surprisingly, they 
dont now remember it. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs K as being particularly suited to their 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It 
would have been for Mr and Mrs K to decide whether it was suitable. 
But even if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in their circumstances at the time. Its true that PPI was of questionable 
value for many people with certain types of borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering 
yourself with PPI for this.
The PPI would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it 
would have put off the time when Mr and Mrs K would need to fall back on any savings or 
other means they may have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all 
would have put Mr and Mrs K in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due 
to unemployment. And the cost was relatively low, and Ive not been told anything to suggest 
they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
Its hard now to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But 
Mr and Mrs K seem to have wanted to apply for the PPI, and I dont think full information 
about the fairly reasonable cost, and the benefits, would have put them off taking it. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But, 
from what theyve told us about their circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr and Mrs K 
would have been affected by any of these. And theyd be paying for it monthly, so they could 
cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
Mr and Mrs K have sent us a copy of an application for an account that shows only Mrs Ks 
signature. They say this shows the PPI was mis-sold. I cant see from the copy what kind of 
account this was an application for, but that application is dated 2005. So it was after this 
PPI started in 2003  and, as Ive mentioned, that 2003 application was signed by both 
Mr and Mrs K. 
Overall, I cant say I have enough evidence to show that this PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman