DRN-3553826
The complaint
Miss M complains about how Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) dealt with her claim for 
the reimbursement of a number of payments she made using her credit card and about how 
it dealt with her subsequent complaint about the same.
What happened
Miss M made a number of calls to a company based in the USA, a company that I will call 
K. 
On over 100 occasions during June and July 2020 Miss M paid for the services provided by 
K using her credit card. The total cost debited to Miss Ms credit card was approximately 
£3,500, with five transactions being for over £100 each.
On 23 May 2020 a number of transactions were made to K using Miss Ms credit card. 
Sainsburys systems identified these as a possible fraudulent transactions, so it contacted 
Miss M. Miss M said these transactions werent authorised by her so Sainsburys blocked 
her card, stopped the transactions, and issued her with a new card.
On 1 June 2020 a transaction was made to K using Miss Ms (new) credit card. Sainsburys 
systems again identified this as a possible fraudulent transaction, so it contacted Miss M. 
Miss M said this transaction was authorised by her. 
On 31 August 2020 Miss M contacted Sainsburys to dispute all the transactions debited to 
her credit card in June and July 2020 in respect of K. Sainsburys asked Miss M for more 
information (twice) but this wasnt provided.
In February 2021 Miss M contacted Sainsburys again. She said she had authorised the 
transactions (she was disputing) but felt pressured into making them and she wasnt in a fit 
state to make an informed decision. She also said the service provided wasnt as described.
Given the time that had lapsed between the transactions being debited to Miss Ms credit 
card (June and July 2020) and her coming back to Sainsburys (February 2021) Sainsburys 
says it was unable to raise a dispute through Mastercards chargeback scheme. However, it 
called Miss M to request further information with the view of considering a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75), a request it followed up in writing.
In March 2021 Miss M called Sainsburys. Sainsburys confirmed in this call it was still 
waiting further information from her. 
In April 2021 Sainsburys tried to call Miss M to ask (again) for further information from her.
In April 2021 Miss M says she sent Sainsburys a second letter.
In June 2021 Miss M called Sainsburys to ask why she hadnt heard further from it, 
especially as she had sent in the further information requested. Sainsburys explained it 
hadnt received anything but that it would consider a claim under section 75 based on what it 
already had.
In August 2021, and unhappy with how her claim had been handled by Sainsburys, Miss M 
complained to our service.
In September 2021 Sainsburys confirmed to our service that it wouldnt be upholding 
Miss Ms section 75 claim.
Miss Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Miss M didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Miss M has said, its clear that she feels strongly about her complaint and she 
believes that Sainsburys could and should have done more to assist her. 
I can assure Miss M that Ive carefully considered all of the points shes made and all of the 
evidence shes provided in relation to her complaint. Miss M may consider that my findings 
dont mirror the level of detail of some of her submissions, but thats simply a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. My decision will address what I consider to be the relevant 
points relating to her complaint.
was Sainsburys correct in debiting Miss Ms credit card, in June and July 2020, the 
transactions in respect of K that it did?
Given that Miss M doesnt dispute she authorised all the transactions subject to this 
complaint and given that Sainsburys contacted Miss M in early June 2020 to establish 
whether she had authorised the first transaction subject to this complaint (which Miss M 
confirmed she had) Im satisfied that Sainsburys did nothing wrong in allowing all the 
transactions subject to this complaint being debited to her credit card.
should Sainsburys have raised a chargeback before it was prevented from doing so (on the 
grounds of time) and if it had raised a chargeback (in time) would it have been successful? 
I dont think Sainsburys did anything wrong in not submitting a chargeback in time simply 
because Miss M didnt get back to it with further information in support of the payments she 
was disputing until it was too late. And for the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied that 
Sainsburys requested further information from Miss M, in support of the payments she was 
disputing, in good time and on more than one occasion.
But even if I wasnt of this view, having considered what Miss M has said and submitted I 
dont believe a chargeback would have been successful. I say this because she has simply 
not provided, to Sainsburys or our service, sufficient evidence of any misrepresentation, or 
breach of contract, on the part of K. 
I note that in response to the investigators view, Miss M says she sent Sainsburys a second 
letter in April 2021 and had it acted on this letter it would have been in time to make a 
chargeback on her behalf. But Im afraid Miss M is wrong in her understanding in this respect 
and in April 2022 Sainsburys was out of time to make a chargeback.was Sainsburys correct in declining Miss Ms section 75 claim?
A consumer has the benefit of the protection provided under section 75 where certain 
conditions are met. One of these conditions is that the claim must relate to a single item (or 
service) to which the supplier has attached a cash price of £100 or more. 
In my view Miss M purchased over 100 separate services from K and not one single service. 
So, this means that Miss M only has the benefit of the protection provided under cover of 
section 75 in respect of just five calls (out of over 100) she made.
Now Miss M says K misrepresented its service to her and that it breached what it had 
contractually agreed to provide. But unfortunately, Miss M hasnt provided enough evidence 
for me able to conclude this was the case. I would also add that given Miss M was making 
outbound calls to K, rather than K making inbound calls to her, I cant agree that she was 
pressured into making the calls that she did  whether at a cost of £100 or more, or less than 
£100.
has there been any service failings on the part of Sainsburys?
In response to the investigators view, Miss M said that although she somewhat agree[d] 
with what [the investigator had] said she felt she should be awarded something for 
Sainsburys negligence and poor customer service.
First, Im not persuaded Sainsburys was negligent in its handling of Miss Ms dispute and 
then her complaint. I think its also worth pointing out that establishing negligence requires 
the clearing of a very high bar.
Miss M says she received poor customer service from Sainsburys. But I disagree. In my 
view Sainsburys (as outlined in the what happened section of this final decision) did all I 
would have expected it to have done  and possibly more  in trying to assist Miss M in 
seeking the recovery or refund of the payments she was disputing.
My final decision
My final decision is that in the particular circumstances of this case Sainsbury's Bank Plc has 
done nothing wrong.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman