DRN-3873635
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) has unfairly withdrawn legal expenses insurance (LEI) cover. 
Any reference to L or NFU includes the comments of their respective agents or 
representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events. 
L has a commercial LEI policy which is underwritten by NFU. 
L wanted to use its LEI to legally challenge its Councils inclusion of a footpath on the 
definitive map. L alleges the footpath incorrectly appears as one for public use. 
Ultimately, L wants the footpath removed from the definitive map.
At the time of submitting its claim to NFU, L had already appointed its own solicitor.
Initially, NFU granted cover for the pursuance of a legal claim for trespass  the 
trespass was in respect of members of the public veering off the footpath and on to 
Ls land.  
NFU later realised Ls legal claim was not about trespass and was only about having 
the footpath removed from the definitive map. So NFU said there wasnt cover under 
the policy because there wasnt a trespass  the public were lawfully using the 
footpath. 
It also has said there wasnt cover under the Public Rights of Way section of the 
policy because the inclusion of the footpath on the definitive map pre-dated the start 
of the policy  noting that L has said its inclusion dates to the 1970s. 
In its final response, NFU said it had incorrectly granted cover, but that its position 
was that a claim for having the definitive map amended isnt covered under the 
policy. It said however, that it would consider covering reasonable costs for the time 
cover was validated to the date of its final response. 
Whilst agreeable to NFU considering covering reasonable costs, L remained 
unhappy that NFU wouldnt provide cover going forwards. So, L complained to this 
Service. 
An Investigator considered the complaint. He thought NFUs offer to consider 
covering reasonable costs was fair. But he said it should pay £200 to recognise the 
inconvenience L had experienced in having been told incorrectly that the claim would 
be covered. 
NFU accepted the Investigators findings, but L disagreed. L said the Investigator had 
not understood the legal claim which was that the trespass claim was being made 
about the Council because of it not rectifying the entry on the definitive map and that 
the public using the footpath was a result of the trespass, not the cause. 
The information didnt change the Investigators opinion and so, the complaint has 
been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome the Investigator reached and Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy document which details the cover provided. Here, the relevant 
sections are those about Property Protection and Public Rights of Way. Ill consider each 
in turn.
Property protection
Under Property Protection it says:
We will pay COSTS and EXPENSES relating to a civil dispute relating to PROPERTY which 
is owned by YOU, or is YOUR responsibility, following: 
1. any event which causes physical damage to such PROPERTY; or
2. a legal nuisance (meaning any unlawful interference with YOUR use or enjoyment of 
YOUR land, or some right over, or in connection with it); or
3. a trespass
So, Im satisfied that where there is a trespass, the policy will provide cover (subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions). I, therefore, need to consider whether it was reasonable for 
NFU to withdraw cover and decline the claim based on there not having been an insured 
peril, namely a trespass. 
Ive looked at Ls solicitors correspondence and note that in an email dated 26 May 2021, 
the solicitor said: With regard to the trespass point, it is correct that the dispute would not be 
technically pursued as a trespass. This is because the inclusion of the footpath on the 
definitive map means that legally anyone following the footpath is entitled to be on it. 
The solicitor goes on to say: the point is that the footpath should not be on the definitive 
map  this being the point of the dispute  and as such the persons using the footpath 
should not be on [Ls} land. From the point of view of the landowner, the effect is the same 
as a trespass.
In a later email, the solicitor says: As long as the footpath is shown on the definitive map, 
there is nothing my client can do to prevent people crossing [their] land using the footpath. 
Therefore, my client needs to apply to delete the footpath from the definitive map to bring the 
interference with [their] land to an end. The legal tests involved in doing this do not involve 
the law of trespass, instead it requires a barrister with specialist knowledge of footpath law.
L also confirms the legal claim is not about trespass in an email from October 2021, which 
says  [] this has absolutely NOTHING to do with trespass. This is all about getting the 
definitive map CORRECTED by having a footpath removed from it.
Its not my role to consider the legal merits of Ls claim, rather I must decide whether NFU 
has applied the terms of the policy fairly. Based on the solicitors and Ls comments  which 
clearly state the dispute is not about trespass and would not be pursued as a trespass - Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for NFU to later withdraw cover on the basis there wasnt a 
trespass and therefore, an insured peril. 
I appreciate L has since told this Service that the Council has trespassed by adding the 
footpath to the definitive map, but in the absence of evidence which shows there is a legal claim with prospects to pursue an action for trespass against the Council, Im not persuaded 
the legal claim is covered under the policy. 
Public Rights of Way
Under Public Rights of Way, the policy says: WE will pay: COSTS AND EXPENSES when 
opposing a definitive map modification order made by a surveying authority under s.53(2) 
Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981.
NFU has said this part of the policy doesnt apply because the issue with the footpath is 
historical as it pre-dates the policy and when NFU began offering cover to challenge 
modifications to the definitive map.  
Its not in dispute that the footpath has been included on the definitive map for decades and 
so, Im satisfied Ls legal claim isnt about a modification which has taken place since the 
start of the policy. As such, Im not persuaded L has proven there is a valid claim under this 
section of the policy; cover is available for opposing a definitive map modification order 
made by a surveying authority  and that is not what L is trying to do here.
Putting things right
NFU acknowledges that it erred in agreeing to cover a legal claim for trespass - specifically 
in relation to persons veering off the footpath  because it had overlooked information about 
the legal claim which said it wasnt about trespass and was instead about having the 
footpath removed from the definitive map.
NFU says it agreed cover for trespass as a gesture of goodwill and because L had said the 
incidence of people veering off the footpath on to Ls land had greatly increased. Had NFU 
not overlooked Ls solicitors comments - which clearly said having the footpath removed 
from the map wouldnt be pursued as a trespass  it would have declined the claim earlier 
on. 
Because of this NFU has offered to consider covering reasonable costs from the time the 
claim was validated to the date of its final response letter. It has said the costs will be 
reviewed by a Costs Draftsman. Given the subject of Ls legal claim isnt covered under the 
policy, I consider NFUs offer to be reasonable in the circumstances as ultimately, L has 
benefited from the policy.
Ive also thought about whether compensation is warranted here. As L is a limited company, 
it is a separate legal entity, meaning it (and its directors) cant be compensated for any 
personal distress it may have experienced because of NFUs error. Whilst NFU has offered 
to consider covering reasonable legal costs, L has still been inconvenienced by NFUs lack 
of clarity  and ultimately L spent time on a matter it wasnt going to be able to pursue under 
the policy. And so, I agree with our Investigator that £200 compensation fairly reflects the 
inconvenience L experienced. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct The National Farmers' Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited to pay L £200 compensation. 
It must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it L accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman