DRN-3704484
The complaint
Miss H and Mr P complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their travel insurance 
claim. My references to Great Lakes include its agents, which include the administrator our 
investigator referred to in her previous correspondence. Great Lakes is the insurer of the 
policy and the correct business for my decision to be about.
What happened
Miss H and Mr P had an annual travel insurance policy insured by Great Lakes.
While on holiday abroad Miss H and Mr P had a bag of valuables and other items stolen 
from their vehicle. They claimed for the stolen items and said:
Theyd parked their camping vehicle for the evening in a designated campervan area. 
Miss H was always within sight of the vehicle and always within one to two meters of 
it as she was going to and from the right hand side of the vehicle getting out food and 
cooking equipment. Mr P was asleep in the tent on top of the vehicle. 
Someone had very quietly opened the back left hand door of the vehicle and taken 
the items. 
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said as the items were removed from the vehicle without 
Miss H and Mr Ps knowledge the vehicle was unattended and the policy didnt cover 
personal items left unattended. It added that Miss H and Mr P werent in a position to prevent 
theft of their items and the vehicle was unlocked allowing unauthorised access.
Miss H and Mr P complained to us. They said they hadnt left the vehicle unattended and 
Great Lakes should pay their claim.
Our investigator said the vehicle wasnt unattended and Great Lakes should reassess the 
claim.
Great Lakes disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Great Lakes fairly declined the claim, and I dont think it did. Ill 
explain why.
Great Lakes has referred to the following exclusions set out in the policy terms to decline the 
claim:
What is not covered
3. loss, theft of, or damage to, personal baggage, valuables, personal money, or 
passport left unattended in a public place, or location that the public has access to at 
any time;
4. any loss, theft of, or damage to personal baggage left in an unattended motor 
vehicle if:
- they have not been locked out of sight in a secure baggage area;
- no forcible and violent means have been used by an unauthorised person to gain 
entry into the vehicle and no evidence of such entry is available;
5. loss, theft of, or damage to, valuables, personal money, or passport:
- from a motor vehicle left unattended at any time
7. any loss, theft of, or damage to personal money, valuables or passport left 
unattended at any time unless deposited in a hotel safe, or safety deposit box
So the key issue for me to decide is whether the items claimed for were unattended. The 
policy defines unattended as:
When you cannot see and/or are not close enough to your  vehicle, to prevent 
unauthorised interference with, or theft of, your property or vehicle.
From Miss H and Mr Ps description of the theft Im satisfied that Miss H could see the 
vehicle at all times. And Im also satisfied that as she was only one to two meters from the 
vehicle she was in a position to prevent unauthorised interference with, or theft of, their 
property. I think as she was that close to the vehicle she could reasonably consider she 
would see and/or hear someone opening the door on the left hand side of the vehicle. The 
fact that she wasnt able to prevent the theft doesnt mean she wasnt in a place to have a 
reasonable prospect of preventing the theft.Great Lakes says the vehicle was unlocked, which allowed the theft. But I think under the 
policy terms the vehicle being unlocked doesnt matter as Im satisfied that Miss H and Mr P 
hadnt left the vehicle unattended. And on a fair and reasonable basis I dont think it would 
reasonable for Great Lakes to decline the claim as it was unlocked when Miss H was very 
close to, and going in and out of, the vehicle.
In these circumstances I think Great Lakes unfairly relied on the above policy terms to 
decline the claim. I think it should reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
Initially our investigator said Great Lakes should add interest to any claim payment but 
ultimately she correctly explained why she wasnt recommending interest. As Im not telling 
Great Lakes to pay the claim, but to reassess the claim, its not appropriate for me to say it 
should add interest.
Putting things right
Great Lakes must reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms, conditions and 
limits.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to reassess the claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms, conditions and limits.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman