DRN-1027424
 
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave incorrect information when she disputed a 
transaction on her account.
What happened
Mrs D bought some pills online. Instead of being charged for one bottle, the seller charged 
her for five bottles. After cancelling the order the seller told Mrs D she wouldnt get a full 
refund. Mrs D phoned HSBC to ask it to stop the transaction. HSBC told her she needed to 
wait until the charge appeared on her account and then it would refund the money. When the 
charge did appear on her account, HSBC told Mrs D it needed to start the dispute process 
and she would not necessarily get the refund. 
Mrs D is unhappy that HSBC gave her incorrect advice during her first phone call. HSBC 
agreed it gave her incorrect advice. It tried to put things right by starting the dispute process, 
as it should have done in the first place, and paying Mrs D £75 as an apology for giving 
incorrect information and for the upset caused. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ds complaint because they felt that HSBC corrected its 
mistake by starting the dispute process even though it should have been done after the first 
call. Our investigator also felt HSBC acted fairly in paying Mrs D £75 as an apology for that 
mistake. Mrs D didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that HSBC does not need to do any more.
During the first phone call, HSBC should have started the disputes process. But, if it had, 
that doesnt mean Mrs D would have received a full refund. A dispute like this isnt an 
immediate process. So HSBC would always have needed to follow this process through 
before telling Mrs D whether she was getting a refund.
The important thing here is that HSBC started the process after further phone calls with Mrs 
D and the short delay will not have affected the outcome of that process. Mrs D has not lost 
out because of HSBCs mistake, so I dont think it needs to do any more about this matter.
But Ive seen that HSBC gave Mrs D incorrect information during her first phone call. Both 
HSBC and Mrs D agree on this point. HSBC paid Mrs D £75 as an apology for its mistake 
and for the upset it caused. Ive taken into account all that Mrs D has told us about how she 
felt because of the problems here, but I think this payment fairly reflects the impact this had 
on her. As HSBC has already made the payment to Mrs D I think this matter is fully resolved 
and I wont be asking HSBC to do any more. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc does not need to do any more about the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman