DRN-2545199
The complaint
Mr G complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited (Erudio) has refused to backdate the 
deferral of payments towards his student loan fairly.
What happened
Mr G made an application to defer payments towards his student loan, which expired on 
14 May 2019. He contacted Erudio to make a further deferment application and provided a 
tax return which was incomplete. 
Erudio said this was insufficient and that it would need a fully completed tax return in order to 
process the application for deferment. Mr G disagreed, saying hed never needed to provide 
a full tax return before and didnt think it was necessary. That complaint was investigated by 
this service and it was eventually agreed that Mr G would provide Erudio with a fully 
completed tax return. Erudio also accepted that it hadnt treated Mr G fairly and so it offered 
£100 compensation for this. 
However, the parties didnt agree on how to proceed with the deferment of Mr Gs student 
loan. Erudio said it told Mr G hed need to provide his fully completed tax return by 
14 September 2019, but that it didnt receive this from Mr G. Its said if it receives the correct 
paperwork from Mr G, its still willing to backdate the deferment by four months and remove 
four months worth of arrears  but that it wont be able to backdate further than this or 
remove any more of Mr Gs accrued arrears.
Mr G struggles with his mental health and also has a severe form of dyslexia. Hes said 
Erudio has not understood the challenges he faces because of his disability and hasnt 
treated him fairly by refusing to backdate the application for deferment by longer than four 
months.
Unhappy with Erudios response, Mr G referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered what had happened and recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said 
Erudio should  provided Mr G sends it the necessary information promptly  agree to 
backdate the deferment and removal of arrears to May 2019.
Erudio didnt respond to our investigators assessment and so the complaint has come to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
In its final response letter dated 16 August 2019 to Mr G, Erudio said:
To complete your application, we require a copy of your tax return that satisfies our 
requirementsOnce received, [we] would usually backdate your deferment by a 
maximum of three months however, as we should have reiterated this on your callI 
am happy to extend this to four. This will mean that, providing we accept your 
application by 14 September 2019, you wont be left with any arrears balance.
Im satisfied from the above that Erudio has the discretion to backdate a deferment 
application more than three months in certain circumstances, for example, where it has 
identified it hasnt provided adequate service to a borrower, such as the situation referred to 
in the final response letter. The four-month period it refers to is more than the maximum 
deferment period allowed under The Education (Student Loans) Regulations 1998, which 
state:
Each deferment period will last for 12 months beginning on a date the lender tells 
the borrower. This date will be not more than three months before or two months 
after the date the lender accepts the borrowers deferment application.
Ive considered carefully whether it would be fair for Erudio to backdate Mr Gs deferment 
application for more than four months. And I havent seen any evidence from Erudio which 
makes me think this wouldnt be possible. In terms of whether it would be fair for Erudio to 
do so, Ive thought about whats happened from the time Mr Gs deferment application 
expired in May 2019, until now. 
It isnt for me to determine whether Erudio has breached the Equality Act 2010  only a court 
can make such a finding. But I can consider whether Erudio has treated Mr G fairly and 
taken account of his disability in its dealings with him. And I dont think it has taken account 
of Mr Gs difficulties sufficiently.
I say this because, Mr G has been proactive in contacting Erudio and has been in touch with 
Erudio regularly about the issue of further deferment. So Im satisfied this is not a case of 
Mr G having done nothing or ignoring communications from Erudio. But Erudio has 
continued to take a rigid approach in setting deadlines for Mr G to comply with, despite the 
fact it was aware of Mr Gs difficulties and at its discretion could have shown more flexibility 
towards him.
Ive considered the impact of Mr Gs disability and I think both his dyslexia and his mental 
health conditions wouldve made it difficult for Mr G to comply with all of Erudios requests. 
And Im not satisfied, based on what Ive seen, that Erudio has acted reasonably since 
becoming aware of Mr Gs disability or been flexible enough in its approach. It follows, 
therefore, that I dont think it would be fair for Erudio to apply a maximum roll back of four 
months in Mr Gs case.
Mr G has also said he hasnt received a deferment application form from Erudio so it hasnt 
been possible for him to submit it. So Ill be requiring Erudio to send this to Mr G in a timely 
manner if Mr G chooses to accept my decision.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr G, Erudio must do the following:
- Send Mr G in a timely manner and without any unreasonable delay all the necessary 
documents in order for him to make a deferment application.  
- Subject to Mr G submitting the deferment application and any necessary paperwork 
in a timely manner and without unreasonable delay, assess Mr Gs application for 
deferment fairly.- Subject to Mr Gs application for deferment being accepted, backdate the application 
for deferment to 14 May 2019 and from that date remove any arrears from Mr Gs 
student loan account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to 
put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman