DRN-4452810
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), terminated a conditional sale agreement he had with them.
Mr M has been represented during the claim and complaint process by Company K.  For 
ease of reference, I will refer to any comments made, or any action taken, by either Mr M or 
Company K as Mr M throughout the decision.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr M was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
BPF. He paid a deposit of £5,000 and the agreement was for £49,961.50 over 60 months; 
with 59 monthly payments of £1,071.16 and a final payment of £34,634.80.
Mr M didnt make the payments in December 2019, April, May, or September 2020. And, 
while he did then make some additional payments towards his arrears, he also failed to 
make payments in November 2020, January 2021, and April 2021. In January 2022 he made 
a token payment of less than £50, and in September 2022, he made an arrangement to pay 
around £600 a month for six months to help him through a temporary financial difficulty 
following an injury and a reduction in his work.
In May 2023, BPF advised Mr M that he was almost £4,000 in arrears and asked him to get 
in touch with them to discuss the situation. As they received no response, BPF followed this 
with a letter dated 12 June 2023, asking Mr M to contact them. This letter also explained that 
Barclays may look to terminate the agreement and repossess the car if no action was taken.
No action was taken by Mr M and, on 30 June 2023, BPF terminated the agreement and 
explained they may be seeking a court order to repossess the car. Mr M contacted BPF on 6 
July 2023, asking to put a payment arrangement in place. BPF conducted an income and 
expenditure assessment and said this didnt show that Mr M was able to maintain payments 
and clear the outstanding arrears in a reasonable period of time. So, they asked Mr M to 
either clear the outstanding amount he owed them, or to hand back the car.
Mr M wasnt happy with this, so he complained to BPF. BPF didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong, so he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that BPF had followed the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
guidelines to treat customers in financial difficulties with forbearance and due consideration, 
but this support is temporary and not designed to last indefinitely. The investigator thought 
BPF had acted reasonably by terminating the agreement when they did, given the arrears 
and that Mr M hadnt responded to multiple requests to discuss the situation.
While Mr M did contact BPF after the termination of the agreement, the income and 
expenditure assessment he went through showed he was only able to pay £100 a month 
towards the arrears. The investigator thought BPF acted reasonably by saying it would take 
too long to repay the arrears, as this was a commercial decision and not something we are 
able to dictate.
So, given all the circumstances, the investigator didnt think BPF needed to do anything 
more.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said the investigation has fallen short of your 
duty of care to your client and there were two significant errors. However, he didnt explain 
what he thought these errors were. Through Company K, Mr M said that the arrears were 
only £2,820, which had accrued during the six-month temporary payment arrangement in 
place between September 2022 and February 2023, and he would pay an additional £235 a 
month on top of the normal monthly payments, until the agreement comes to an end in 2025. 
And he wanted us to put this arrangement in place with BPF.
Because Mr M didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Where evidence has been incomplete 
or contradictory, Ive reached my view on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think its extremely important for me to make 
it clear that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an independent complaint handling 
organisation. And in this matter we represent neither BPF nor Mr M, but instead consider 
each complaint on its own merits and its own individual circumstances. So, while Mr M has 
commented that weve failed in our duty of care to him as our client, he isnt our client, so no 
such duty of care exists.
Ive seen the Statement of Account for the agreement Mr M had with BPF. This clearly 
shows the missed payments Ive detailed above, and that Mr M was in arrears before the 
payment arrangement in September 2022. As such, I cant agree with Mr M that his only 
arrears were the shortfall in payments while the arrangement was in place, and I havent 
seen anything that indicated the £3,889 arrears quoted by BPF at the point of termination 
was incorrect.
Having reviewed BPFs system notes and having listened to recordings of the calls Mr M had 
with BPF after the agreement was terminated, Im satisfied that Mr M made no attempt to 
contact BPF to discuss the arrears situation after the payment arrangement ended. And this 
was despite BPFs attempts to contact him and the letters they sent clearly explaining what 
would happen if nothing was put in place.
Im satisfied that BPF followed the FCAs guidelines about forbearance and due 
consideration, but an arrears situation cannot be allowed to remain indefinitely. In line with the FCA guidance, BPF were required to act to make sure Mr Ms situation didnt continue to 
worsen; and by terminating the agreement after Mr M failed to contact them about the 
arrears, Im satisfied they did this. As such, I dont think BPF did anything wrong by 
terminating the agreement when they did.
Turning to the offer of repayment Mr M made after the agreement had been terminated, BPF 
conducted an income and expenditure assessment before considering this. Im satisfied this 
was reasonable to do, as BPF still have a responsibility to ensure that any arrangement put 
in place was sustainably affordable and wouldnt adversely affect Mr Ms financial 
circumstances. As this assessment showed that Mr M was only able to pay an additional 
£100 a month on top of his normal payment, this would mean it would take 39 months to 
clear the arrears, with around 12-months remaining on the original term of the agreement. 
Given this, I dont thin BPF acted unreasonably by not agreeing a repayment plan on this 
basis.
Whats more, while Mr M has now offered to pay an additional £235 a month, he hasnt 
provided any evidence of a change in his financial circumstances which would show this 
amount was now affordable. And, based on the arrears at termination, this would still take 
around 17-months to clear the arrears. So, I also dont think BPF have acted unreasonably 
by not accepting this offer.
As such, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr M, Im satisfied that 
BPF have acted reasonably and fairly in the circumstances, and I wont be asking them to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman