DRN-4010689
The complaint
Mr W complains that ReAssure caused unreasonable delays in paying his pensions and 
explains that the delays have cost him investment returns.
What happened
Mr W had three separate personal pension policies with ReAssure. 
On 24 March 2021 Mr W phoned ReAssure to enquire about taking his retirement benefits. 
ReAssure explain that it sent Mr W retirement option packs by email. It didnt send Mr W 
claim forms to take his benefits.
Mr W called ReAssure again on 26 April 2021 because he didnt have claim forms. He says 
he was emailed the claim forms straight away. 
Mr W completed the claim forms for his three personal pensions, requesting that each policy 
was paid in full as a lump sum. These signed application forms were all received by 
ReAssure on 5 May 2021. And Mr W explains that he phoned ReAssure on 5 May 2021 to 
check that his forms had been received. He says he was told that payment would take up to 
15 working days. 
On 28 May 2021 Mr W phoned ReAssure again as hed yet to receive his pension benefits. 
Mr W says that he was told that only one of his policies had been entered for processing. He 
complained about the service hed received up to that point.
On 6 June 2021 ReAssure responded to Mr Ws complaint. ReAssure told Mr W that it had 
reviewed what had happened in line with its time scales and hadnt delayed Mr Ws 
payment.
On 16 June 2021 Mr W phoned ReAssure again as he still hadnt received his payment. And 
asked that his complaint be re-opened. 
Mr W received payment on one pension on 15 June and the other two on 22 June 2021. He 
was emailed confirmation of payments on 6 July 2021.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator considered what happened and 
upheld the complaint. He set out his thoughts on what should be done to put things right. 
Mr W didnt agree with what was suggested and asked for this case to be considered by an 
ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties to let them know what I thought a fair and 
reasonable outcome would be. In my provisional decision, I upheld Mr Ws complaint for the 
following reasons:
I thought that it was fair of ReAssure to send Mr W the retirement option packs 
following his call of 24 March 2021.
I thought that it ought to have been clear that claim forms were not part of the 
retirement packs. And whilst I could see no reason why they couldnt have been 
included, I thought it merely meant that Mr W would have needed to phone up again 
to request the form for his selected means of taking his benefits.
ReAssure demonstrated that it received the claims forms for all policies from Mr W 
on 5 May 2021. And failed to process the claim promptly enough. It allowed 15 
working days. And failed to meet its own service delivery standard. Mr W had to call 
repeatedly and ReAssure admitted that it failed to process some of the claim forms 
straight away.
I thought that ReAssure should compensate Mr W for the late payment of his 
retirement benefits. And should calculate whether Mr W ought to have had greater 
benefits if it had processed the claim by the time that it should have.
Mr W responded to say that he had no further comments to add after receiving my 
provisional decision.
ReAssure responded to explain that it still considered that the correct value had been paid to 
Mr W in June 2021. And provided further evidence showing the calculation of the payment of 
the larger of Mr Ws pension funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the facts in this case again and have considered the responses. My final 
decision is the same as I set out for both parties already. Which means that Im upholding 
Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr W has explained his circumstances when he contacted ReAssure in March 2021. He 
was, unfortunately, having to deal with redundancy. And still had mortgage payments to 
make. He explains that he wanted to cash in his pension policies. I think that, on balance, 
its likely that he already knew what he wanted to do with his pensions when he contacted 
ReAssure in March. So I think that its more likely than not he would have been asking to 
take his pensions in the way that he went on to do.
ReAssure havent sent us the call recording for 24 March 2021. So I havent been able to 
listen to find out exactly what Mr W asked for, or what he was told by ReAssure. As Ive said 
above though, I think that its most likely that Mr W asked to take his pensions as lump sums 
on that call.
Although we havent been provided the call recording, I have seen the call notes from 
ReAssure. The notes are brief but indicate that retirement option packs were sent for all 
policies. ReAssure explain that it cant provide copies of what were sent to Mr W as those 
emails werent retained. But Mr W confirms that he did receive the emails. 
Ive seen an example of a retirement option pack that was sent on these policies later on. It 
provides a valuation as well as explanations about the options available and what to do. The 
option packs Ive seen did not include claim forms, but rather informed consumers about 
what to do next. So I think that the correspondence Mr W received following his call on 
24 March would also have been limited to this. 
I think that it was fair of ReAssure to send Mr W an options pack. He hadnt obtained advice about his pensions, and there were a range of options that ReAssure needed to make him 
aware of in order to comply with its obligations to him under the regulatory rules. But I dont 
think that means that claim forms couldnt have been sent as well if asked for. Which, for the 
reason Ive given, I think they most likely were. 
In this case however, I think that would have merely amounted to a service failing, causing 
Mr W the inconvenience of having to call ReAssure back again. I say that because I think 
that it would have been clear to Mr W what he had been sent. And that it didnt include claim 
forms to take his benefits. Hes explained that he thought that ReAssure might be sending 
those through separately by post. But I cant see what that would have been based on. His 
testimony, and the call notes, dont suggest he was told to expect that. Were Mr W in a 
genuine hurry to take his benefits I would have expected him to contact ReAssure again 
straight away. He didnt do that until 26 April 2021. So I dont think that I can reasonably 
conclude that ReAssure were responsible for the delay in applying to take his benefits before 
he did.
ReAssure have shown us what it received from Mr W on 5 May 2021. It is date stamped and 
includes pension lump sum application forms for each of his three policies. I think that it 
clearly had everything it needed at this time to process the payments for Mr W. 
Things still didnt run smoothly. ReAssure provide little explanation for the reasons for this. 
But there seems to be an understanding that the process would have taken up to 15 working 
days. It was the expectation that ReAssure provided Mr W. And Mr W accepted that. It 
means that by 26 May 2021, at the latest, Mr W should have received his pension benefits. 
But he didnt. It impacted him because he wanted that pension income to reduce his 
mortgage payments. 
In ReAssures response to us on 16 February 2022 it agreed that the payments should have 
been made on 26 May 2021 using the fund values on 5 May 2021. Which I agree with. It 
would mean that Mr W would receive the benefits he should have. ReAssure also suggested 
that, when the payments were made, they were calculated using the values of 5 May 2021. 
ReAssure never communicated this with Mr W. Either in paying his benefits or in response to 
his complaint. Which I think is poor. It left him unsure whether the delay may have meant he 
received the later fund value. Which had in fact fallen. 
ReAssure have shown us an entry on Mr Ws policy information for the larger of his three 
policies. It is dated 4 June 2021 and says, manual payment £49,691.52.  And said, 
Payment Effective Date: 5 May 2021. So it does appear likely that it was ReAssures 
intention to pay Mr W the fund value of 5 May 2021. But that policy was instead settled on 
22 June 2021 as gross payment of £45,691.52. Ive seen no explanation why this figure was 
different to ReAssures own calculation for the manual payment. Which means that I still 
cant say, with confidence, that Mr W was correctly paid.Putting things right
There are two potential consequences to these delayed payments that need to be 
considered:
Loss of use of income received late
Mr W suffered a loss of use on the pension income that he should have had sooner. 
ReAssure should pay Mr W 8% simple interest on the net payments he received from 
26 May 2021 until the date of receipt of each individual payment.
Did Mr W receive lower benefits than he should have?
ReAssure should compare the transfer value payable for each policy on 5 May, with the 
gross pension payment Mr W received. If this shows that Mr Ws gross payment was too 
low, he should additionally be paid the total loss on all policies as compensation for this loss. 
If Mr W had received that payment on 26 May 2021 he would have been entitled to 25% of it 
tax free and the remainder taxed at his marginal rate. Which, given the overall value of the 
lump sum benefits he had taken from these pensions in that tax year would have been 40%. 
So a reduction in the compensation of 30% adjusts for the notional tax that Mr W would have 
paid is fair.
This compensation represents an income payment Mr W ought to have received on 26 May 
2021. So ReAssure should pay 8% simple interest on this compensation from 26 May 2021 
until the date of my final decision for Mr Ws loss of the use of that sum.
These calculations must be set out for Mr W in a clear way. After all, this was never 
explained to Mr W when his benefits were paid or in response to his complaint.
Distress and inconvenience
Mr W has been caused inconvenience in being unable to reduce his mortgage payments as 
soon as he wanted to. And has had to make a number of phone calls to ReAssure because 
of the late payment. Including being told that ReAssure had failed to log two of the three 
pensions. And having complained, was told that nothing had gone wrong, when the 
payments had already taken more than the 15 working days he was told to expect. I think 
that ReAssure should pay £200 for this distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to 
put things right in the manner that Ive set out (under putting things right).
ReAssure Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the total 
compensation figure from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If ReAssure Limited deduct tax from this interest payment, it must tell Mr W how much tax 
its taken off and provide him with a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so that he 
can reclaim the tax if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman