DRN-2213719
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) hasnt handled 
their request for a cash settlement on their claim fairly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C were burgled in mid 2019. They reported this to Lloyds, which agreed to meet 
their claim for stolen items of jewellery. Lloyds said Mr and Mrs C could have a voucher for 
the full retail value of most of the items, and a cash settlement for an item its specialist 
jewellery company couldnt replace. The amounts were £1,810 and £1,150 respectively.
Mr and Mrs C said theyd prefer to use a jeweller of their own choosing, and Lloyds said that 
in that case the earlier offer would be exchanged for a total cash offer of £2,055. That meant 
the vouchers value in cash terms was £905. 
Mr and Mrs C complained, but Lloyds said it was meeting the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of their policy.
Unhappy with this response Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to us for review, saying 
the policy terms and conditions were unfair. Our investigator thought Lloyds had met the 
claim in line with the terms and conditions and that this was fair. He explained that the terms 
and conditions were common in insurance policies and clear in the policy Mr and Mrs C 
have.
Mr and Mrs C remain unhappy about this, and have asked for an ombudsman to decide their 
complaint. Recently theyve told us that the jeweller who originally sold them Mrs Cs 
engagement ring doesnt think it can be easily replaced, and Mr and Mrs C say this supports 
their request for a cash settlement for its full retail value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I know this isnt what Mr and Mrs C want to hear, but I 
will explain why Ive reached this decision.
There are two parts to this complaint  are the terms and conditions contained in Mr and Mrs 
Cs policy fair, and if they are, has Lloyds paid the claim in line with these terms and 
conditions.
The terms and conditions in Mr and Mrs Cs policy say that Lloyds may choose how it pays a 
claim  its not a choice given to Mr and Mrs C. One of the options is that Lloyds can replace 
an item with a near equivalent, and need only pay the amount it would cost it to replace an 
item.
This is a clause common in home insurance policies across the insurance industry, so I cant 
say Mr and Mrs C have been disadvantaged by this. Thats because its unlikely they could 
have bought a policy without this clause for a similar price. I also think, having read the 
relevant part of the policy, its clear that Lloyds need pay no more than it would have paid to 
settle a claim.
Im not upholding this part of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Turning to how Lloyds dealt with the claim, I can see that it appears Lloyds accepted Mr and 
Mrs Cs claim based largely on photos of the items provided by Mr and Mrs C. Thats a 
reasonable thing for Lloyds to do, as often customers dont have receipts etc for items that 
were bought some time ago. Lloyds specialist then assessed the retail value of the items it 
thought could be replaced through its supplier, and offered Mr and Mrs C a voucher for the 
retail value. Where Lloyds supplier couldnt provide a replacement Lloyds offered the full 
retail value as a cash settlement. Thats a reasonable way to settle a claim. 
Problems only arose when Mr and Mrs C said they wanted to use a jeweller of their choice, 
not Lloyds supplier. The cash equivalent of the voucher is only 50% of the voucher value. 
That reflects the discounts Lloyds can negotiate with its suppliers. These discounts are often 
substantial, and much higher than a member of the general public can get. But the cash 
equivalent does reflect the cost to Lloyds of settling the claim, and is in line with the terms 
and conditions.
I do understand why Mr and Mrs C might want to use a jeweller of their choice, but Im afraid 
its not appropriate for me to ask Lloyds to increase the cash settlement because of this 
when its current offer is fair.
Mr and Mrs C have recently told us they think a second ring (Mrs Cs engagement ring) 
might not be easy to replace. If that turns out to be the case, then they should talk to Lloyds 
about this  but I cant ask Lloyds to anticipate a problem and change its offer now.
Mr C also commented on how Lloyds had discounted the item that cant be replaced by 
£100. I think theres been some confusion here  from what Ive seen Lloyds offered the full 
retail value (in cash) for the ring that couldnt be replaced, and only discounted the cash 
value (not the voucher value) on the one it thinks can be replaced. I dont think this affects 
my decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman