DRN-4251092
The complaint
Mrs S complains about advice from Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) to transfer her 
final salary pension to a personal pension
What happened
Mrs S said she joined a public pension scheme in 1982. Due to a change in employment she 
had to join a private pension scheme around 1991 and was advised to transfer her final 
salary benefits from the public scheme. She later re-joined the public scheme in 2000. 
However when she re-joined the public scheme she had to join a new section as she lost the 
right to re-join the section she had been in before. She said as a result of what happened 
she couldnt take her pension at age 60 on her current salary. She now needed to work for 
longer before she retired.
Phoenix consented to this service reviewing this complaint even though it relates to events 
from the 1990s. It didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mrs S took out a personal pension in 
autumn 1991 and made regular monthly contributions. In spring 1992 around £5,300 was 
received from her previous employers defined benefit pension scheme. She was in her late 
twenties at the time. She continued to make contributions for around 4 years and invested in 
a with profits fund. The sale of her pension was reviewed as part of the industry regulator 
scheme that reviewed pension from the period 1988 to 1994. This showed it had been 
incorrect to advise her to transfer out of her defined benefit pension plan and she had lost 
out. It wrote to her in early 2000 and offered a payment in compensation. Mrs S accepted 
the offer in early 2000 and the payment was made into her plan. As a consequence it was no 
longer possible to revisit the advice given in the past and it couldnt uphold her complaint.
The investigator said she could not uphold the complaint. She was satisfied the transfer had 
been through the pension review process and that meant it was not possible to revisit the 
advice she received or the transfer itself.
Mrs S didnt agree. She accepted that she had received a payment in early 2000 but didnt 
feel this had taken into account the current value and benefits that had been lost. She said 
she lost the ability to retire at age 55 on a final salary pension. She said that because of this 
she could not now retire until age 67. She said she was not advised of this when she took 
the personal pension nor when the review was performed in 2000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I am very sorry to disappoint Mrs S I am not able to uphold her complaint for the 
reasons below. I note what Mrs S has said and that she would have liked to retire earlier. 
In effect Mrs S says that she is not now able to do what she would have been able to do had 
she not transferred her pension. She doesnt think the compensation she received took this 
into account and it was not explained to her at the time.
The financial regulator set out the approach to be taken to the calculation of the 
compensation to reflect the fact she was worse off, and there is no evidence to suggest this 
was not applied correctly at the time. 
I note she says this wasnt explained at the time. I note that the offer letter didnt explain the 
offer in detail, but it did direct her to take independent financial advice, if she wished to. I 
dont know whether she decided to do so at the time, but had she done so this might 
perhaps have helped her better understand the offer. 
I have seen the offer acceptance form that Mrs S signed in early 2000. This says that she 
agreed to accept the offer 
in full and final settlement of any and all claims I may have against Pearl or its agents in 
connection with or arising out of the sale of my Pearl Personal Pension Plan
This settlement wording is very broad and is clear that it is in full and final settlement of any 
and all claims in connection with the sale of the personal pension. That would include the 
claim she now makes.  So it is not possible to reopen the review and settlement.
So for those reasons, I cannot consider her complaint further as it relates to advice given in 
the past and where an agreement for compensation has already been made and where the 
settlement terms cover any and all claims.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman