DRN-3347094
The complaint
Mr V complains that when Black Horse Limited extended his hire purchase agreement term 
to reflect the payment deferrals he had taken his mileage allowance wasnt amended. 
What happened
Mr V entered into a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in November 2016 to acquire 
a car. Mr Vs income was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and so he contacted Black 
Horse about his options. He was offered a payment deferral and was told his agreement 
would be extended for the length of time he had the deferral in place. Mr V took payments 
deferral for six months and his agreement was extended by this amount. At the end of the 
agreement, Mr V handed back the car and says it was only then he was told the milage 
allowance hadnt been extended to reflect the longer term. He said that had he known the 
mileage wouldnt be extended in line with agreement he may not have taken this option. 
Black Horse issued a final response letter in June 2021. It said Mr Vs agreement clearly set 
out the permitted mileage and the charges for exceeding this. It said the terms of Mr Vs 
agreement didnt allow for a payment deferral but due to the Covid-19 pandemic and in line 
with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance from the time, this option was provided 
to support customers. It said the guidance didnt confirm that it was required to reduce or 
increase a customers mileage allowance when considering payment deferrals. It said Mr V 
exceeded his permitted mileage by 13,416 miles. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that Black Horse wasnt required to 
amend the mileage allowance due to the payment deferrals. She noted that deferrals didnt 
mean that extra monthly rentals were made rather that these were made at a later date 
rather than being spread over the original term of the agreement. So, if the mileage had 
been increased as well this would have been use that wasnt paid for. She noted that Mr V 
paid additional interest but explained this was due to the agreement being over a longer 
period.  
Mr V didnt agree with our investigators view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr V was upset when he received an excess mileage charge after 
handing back his car at the end of the agreement. However, for me to uphold this complaint I 
would need to be satisfied that Black Horse had done something wrong or treated Mr V 
unfairly.
Mr V entered in a hie purchase agreement in 2016. This clearly set out the maximum 
mileage permitted under the agreement and the charges that would be applied if this was 
exceeded. Mr V signed the agreement and so agreed to its terms.
Black Horse has explained that payment deferrals werent allowed under Mr Vs agreement 
but in response to the Covid-19 pandemic these were offered to customers experiencing 
temporary financial difficulties. This offer was in line with the guidance that was introduced 
by the FCA in response to the pandemic and as Mr V benefitted from the maximum six 
months of payment deferrals, I accept that Black Horse provided the support required at that 
time.
Mr V says that he was told his agreement would be extended by the number of months he 
took a payment deferral for and that there would be an interest charge resulting from this but 
he wasnt told that his mileage allowance wouldnt be increased to reflect the increased term. 
I appreciate the point Mr V has made but there was nothing in the guidance that required 
Black Horse to increase the mileage allowance. As our investigator explained, the payment 
deferral resulted in payments not being made for six months and these then being charged 
at the end of the agreement. This didnt result in an additional six months of payments being 
made. Therefore, Mr V benefited from having the car for an additional six months and I do 
not think Black Horse was required to increase the maximum allowed mileage. 
Mr V has said that he was questioned about why he had exceeded the mileage while 
restrictions were in place. I do not think this was reasonable as Mr V had his reasons for 
needing to use his car and this wasnt for Black Horse to challenge. However, as I do not 
find Black Horse did anything wrong by not amending the maximum mileage allowed, and it 
has charged the excess mileage in line with the agreement terms, I do not find I can uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman