DRN-1901784
The complaint
Mrs N complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Prudential Home Insurance 
(Prudential) cancelled her home insurance policy by mistake. 
What happened
Mrs N had a home insurance policy with Prudential. In April 2019 Prudential cancelled the 
policy in error and didnt tell Mrs N. It was only when Mrs N had to make a claim around nine 
months later that she found out she wasnt covered. Mrs N complained.
Prudential acknowledged it had made a mistake. Whilst it couldnt reinstate her policy, it 
gave Mrs N a new one with a partner company with the same premium covering the same 
things. It gave Mrs N £225 compensation for the trouble and upset. Mrs N further 
complained when she found out her no claims discount (NCD) hadnt been added to the 
policy and when she saw her policy excess wasnt the same. Prudential also put this right 
and reinstated Mrs Ns NCD.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He felt that Prudential had done enough to put 
things right. He said that Mrs N had been put in the position she wouldve been in had the 
error not occurred. And he felt the £225 compensation was fair to recognise the trouble and 
upset she had experienced.
Mrs N disagreed. She said shes not been told why the mistake happened and she doesnt 
feel shes been compensated enough. She said she had to spend a lot of time on the phone 
getting the problem sorted out, and she had to point out the excess and NCD was incorrect. 
She feels the compensation should be higher. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that it wouldve been very shocking for Mrs N to find out her insurance had 
been cancelled, and to have worked hard to get it put back in place. But I do think Prudential 
has done enough here to put things right. Ill explain why.
Mrs N found out about the error when she needed to make a claim. When she contacted 
Prudential it identified there had been an error and found a new policy for Mrs N. it explained 
to her that it couldnt reinstate the previous policy as it didnt offer that policy anymore, but I 
can see it did find a like for like policy. It also set the premiums at the same rate Mrs N had 
been paying for the previous year.
I understand Mrs N had to make various phone calls and had to point out differences 
between the policies. But as soon as these were brought to Prudentials attention it put 
things right. Im pleased to see the policy Mrs N has now hasnt left her out of pocket, and 
that her claim was honoured as well. When a business does something wrong, we expect it to put things right by putting the consumer back in the position they wouldve been in had the 
mistake not occurred. I can see that Prudential has done that as much as it can here.
Its clear that Mrs N was inconvenienced by Prudentials error. She had to make several 
phone calls and point out when things werent right. I can imagine this was very frustrating, 
considering this was an error in the first place. But I think the compensation of £225 is fair 
and reasonable for the trouble and upset shes experienced. When Prudential was made 
aware of the errors it put them right as quickly as possible. And whilst it wouldve been a 
shock for Mrs N to find out she wasnt insured for such a long time, it was put right shortly 
after she had discovered the error. So, I dont think it should pay any more for the trouble 
and upset.
I understand Mrs N says hasnt been told why the mistake happened in the first place. But 
Prudential has explained that it was an error made by its back office when a letter was 
received adding on a financially interested party to the policy. It also explained that feedback 
has been given to the person that made this error. Although Mrs N may not find this answer 
acceptable, I have no reason to doubt that this was caused by human error. And I think that 
Prudential has done enough to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman