DRN-4288738
The complaint
Mrs C complains about esure Insurance Limited (EIL) and the way they have handled and 
progressed the claim she made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C held a home insurance policy, underwritten by EIL. Unfortunately, on 31 December 
2022, there was a significant escape of water at Mrs Cs property which flowed through her 
bathroom floor and into the rooms below. So, Mrs C contacted EIL to make a claim.
EIL accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjustor, who Ill refer to as S, to manage the 
claim on their behalf. They also made Mrs C aware that she didnt hold additional home 
emergency cover and so, shed need to arrange for the leak that had caused the escape of 
water to be repaired herself.
Between 5 January and 2 February, S arranged for the drying out process to begin at Mrs 
Cs home. And S compiled a report detailing the restoration work that would be required, and 
the estimated costs of this. In late February, Mrs C chose to take a cash settlement for her 
own repairer to complete the restoration work. But she explained she would only accept this 
settlement if it covered the quotes she obtained.
Mrs C provided these quotes to S in late March. And these quotes were for significantly 
more than the cash settlement S proposed, based on their report. So, Mrs C refused to 
accept the cash settlement at this time. No further action was taken until the start of May, 
when S tried to contact Mrs C on several occasions to try and agree a way forward, without 
success. But by this point Mrs C was unhappy with how long the claim had taken without the 
repair work being completed and so, she raised a complaint.
Mrs C was unhappy with how long the claim was taking, and the inconvenience this was 
causing her living in a home that required extensive repair work. So, she wanted EIL to pay 
her a cash settlement that allowed her to instruct her own repairer and cover all the 
associated costs, plus compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused. 
EIL didnt issue a response within the eight-week time period they are afforded and so, Mrs 
C referred her complaint to our service.
EIL engaged with our service, providing information and their position allowing us to 
investigator the complaint on 22 May 2023. So, the scope of our services investigation only 
considered the events that had taken place up until that point.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought there had been 
avoidable delays during the claim process. And, that EIL had failed to call Mrs C back at 
agreed times. And they recognised the upset and inconvenience this wouldve caused, 
considering Mrs Cs mental health and pre-existing condition. So, they thought EIL should 
pay Mrs C £200 to recognise this.
EIL accepted this recommendation. But Mrs C didnt. She didnt think £200 was enough to 
compensate her for what she felt was 7 months worth of delays. Our investigator reiterated 
the scope of our services investigation, and that its not our role to manage the progression 
of an ongoing claim. So, they maintained their view that £200 was a fair offer to compensate 
Mrs C for EILs service failures between February  May 2023. Mrs C continued to disagree 
and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think its important for me to set out exactly 
what Ive been able to consider, and how. I understand Mrs Cs claim remains ongoing, and 
she wants all the delays she feels shes experienced to be considered. But our service only 
has the jurisdiction to consider events that have been raised with a business first, where that 
business has then been given up to eight weeks to respond within their own complaint 
process.
In this situation, EIL provided their business file, and their comments about the service they 
provided, to our service on 22 May 2023. So, Ive been unable to consider any events, and 
the impact of these, that occurred after this date as they fall outside of our jurisdiction. 
Should Mrs C wish for events after this date to be investigated by our service, she would 
need to raise a new complaint with EIL first.
So, my decision has focused solely on the service EIL has provided from 31 December 
2022, when she first notified EIL of her claim, until 22 May 2023, for the reasons Ive outlined 
above.
And I also want to make it clear the obligations EIL held, under the policy they provided. Ive 
seen Mrs Cs policy schedule which confirms she didnt hold optional home emergency 
cover. So, EIL werent responsible for the repair to the leak itself and I think they were fair, 
and correct, when they explained this to Mrs C in January 2022. And I wouldnt expect them 
to cover the costs of the repair work needed to stop the leak that caused the damage to Mrs 
Cs property.
But as Mrs Cs building and contents insurer, EIL are responsible for the restoration of Mrs 
Cs home, repairing the damage caused by the leak itself. And Id expect this process to be 
progressed, without reasonably avoidable delays.
Ive seen the actions EIL took, through S acting as their agent, in January up to early 
February 2022. And Im satisfied EIL took reasonable steps to progress the claim up to this 
point, implementing a drying process and obtained a report that estimated the costs of the 
total repairs required.
But following S report, I can see there was a delay of around two weeks where EIL didnt 
contact Mrs C to explain her options moving forwards. And during this time, I can see Mrs C 
chased S, and so EIL, for updates without receiving any return contact. And I think this is 
both unfair, and unreasonable.
In late February, Ive seen S did make Mrs C aware of the two options she had available. 
And Ive seen Mrs C explained she wished to take the cash settlement, but only if it covered quotes she obtained from her own repairers. So, from this point, I wouldnt have expected S 
to have done anything further, until Mrs C provided the quotes for their consideration.
I can see Mrs C provided these in late March. So, I think there was a delay of around a 
month which wasnt the fault of EIL, and so I wont be holding them responsible for this 
period. But, from the date Mrs C sent the repair quotes, I think there was another period of 
around 5 weeks where no further action was taken by S to progress Mrs Cs claim. While I 
recognise the quotes were in excess of the cash settlement they proposed, I wouldve 
expected EIL to remain in communication with Mrs C to try and agree a way forward. And I 
cant say they did until early May.
In early May, Ive seen S, and so EIL, did attempt to contact Mrs C on several occasions 
over the phone, by email and by text. And I cant see Mrs C responded to much of this 
contact. So, I dont think I can say EIL were responsible for the delays after the start of May, 
up to 22 May, as I wouldve expected Mrs C to engage with EIL during the process.
So, I do think there were avoidable delays of around 7 weeks during the time period Ive 
been able to consider. And I think there were times where EIL shouldve responded to Mrs 
Cs request for contact sooner. So, Im satisfied EIL have acted unfairly and because of this, 
Ive then turned to what I think EIL should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended that EIL pay Mrs C £200 to recognise the upset and 
inconvenience she was caused. And I think this payment is a fair one, that falls in line with 
our services approach and what I wouldve directed, had it not already been put forward.
I think it adequately addresses the avoidable delays Mrs C experienced between February to 
May 2023, and how these delays and the frustration they created wouldve impacted Mrs C, 
especially when her mental health and pre-existing condition is considered. I also think it 
fairly reflects EILs failure to communicate with Mrs C as I wouldve expected during this 
time.
But I think it also fairly reflects the fact that some of the delays Mrs C has referred to were 
created through no fault of EILs. And, that some of the avoidable delays have been caused 
by the fact that Mrs C and EIL remain in conversations about what a fair cash settlement 
should be when Mrs C did also have the option of allowing S to arrange the repair work 
themselves. I think it also acknowledges S report, compiled in February, which confirms the 
electrics had been reinstated and so were available to the property.
So, because of the above, I think EIL should pay Mrs C £200 to recognise the impact shes 
experienced. It is my understanding that EIL have already paid this amount and that theyve 
processed this payment following the investigators recommendation. Should Mrs C not have 
received this, she should make EIL aware and ask for the payment to be raised again.
I understand this isnt the overall outcome Mrs C was hoping for. But as Ive explained earlier 
within my decision, any delays that Mrs C has experienced after 22 May 2023 will need to be 
complained about separately and our service would be able to consider these, and any 
potential compensation, separately should Mrs C remain unhappy with EILs response.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint about esure Insurance Limited 
and I direct them to take the following action:Pay Mrs C £200 to recognise the upset and inconvenience shes been caused, if this 
has not been paid and received already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman