DRN-3431907
The complaint
Mr K complains that Fairweather Insurance Services Ltd (FIS) mis-sold him a landlords 
rent indemnity policy.
What happened
Mr K rents out his property. He approached FIS, his insurance broker, in July 2019 in order 
for them to source him a landlords policy, which was to include landlords legal expenses 
and rent guarantee cover. FIS sourced a Residential Property Owners policy through Arch 
a placing broker  who sold the policy under delegated authority of ARAG Plc (underwritten 
by Amtrust) and the policy was incepted on 18 July 2019.
Mr K submitted a claim to ARAG on 12 May 2021 for legal expenses and rent indemnity due 
to his tenant defaulting on his rent payments. He issued a repossession notice through his 
lawyers, and ARAG provisionally accepted his claim on 14 May 2020. However, it 
subsequently came to light that the tenancy Mr K had in place was a common law tenancy 
(whereby the rent exceeds £100,000 per annum) which did not fall within the policy definition 
of a Tenancy Agreement. So the insurer declined to cover the claim. 
Mr K complained that the policy had been mis-sold. As part of his disclosure to FIS, he 
included a copy of the tenancy agreement which showed it was a common law tenancy, and 
they were also aware that he required rent guarantee cover for a £120,000 tenancy. So, 
Mr K submits that FIS were fully aware of the type of tenancy he was looking to have 
covered under the policy, and says they ought to have known it was not suitable as his 
contract was neither an assured shorthold tenancy, shorthold tenancy or an assured 
tenancy. 
FIS denied liability, however, as they said they had forwarded all the relevant documentation 
to Arch, so they say it was Arch who had provided an unsuitable policy.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He considered that FIS had mis-sold the policy given 
they ought reasonably to have known that Mr Ks tenancy would not be covered. But he 
didnt think the broker should be liable to cover Mr Ks legal expenses/rent indemnity claim, 
as it didnt appear that Mr K could have sourced an alternative policy elsewhere that would 
have covered his type of tenancy. However, the investigator was satisfied that Mr K would 
not have taken out the legal expenses/rent guarantee cover if FIS had made him aware that 
it wouldnt cover his tenancy, so he recommended they refund 50% of the premiums on a 
joint liability basis with Arch/ARAG. 
FIS agreed to settle the case on this basis, but Mr K disagreed. Following the investigators 
view, Mr K submitted further evidence to show that he could have taken out an alternative 
policy that would have covered his common law tenancy. As Mr K disagreed, the matter was 
escalated to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. I said I intended upholding 
it and set out the following reasoning:
In this instance, FIS were acting as Mr Ks broker on his behalf. I understand that FIS 
do not consider they are responsible for the mis-selling of the policy, which was 
provided to them by Arch. However, Arch did not sell the policy directly to Mr K, and 
he had no direct relationship with them. It was sold to him by FIS. So, they still had a 
responsibility to ensure that the correct cover was being sold, and Im satisfied they 
can fairly and reasonably be held liable for the sale of the policy in these 
circumstances.
Ive considered the basis upon which the policy was sold to determine whether FIS 
met its regulatory obligations. 
FISs terms of business set out the following:
We will discuss your insurance requirements with you prior to making any 
recommendation to you. The information provided to you will include a full 
breakdown of costs and the main policy benefits and exclusions.
So, FIS state that they recommend policies based on the insurance requirements of 
the policyholder, and I can see they also told Mr K that they were comfortable in 
presenting and recommending the Arista policy. So, Im satisfied that FIS has sold 
the policy to Mr K on an advised basis, which means they had a regulatory duty to 
ensure it was suitable for the demands and needs of the insured (see, for example, 
the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, general principles and insurance: conduct 
of business sourcebook). However, having considered the policy wording, I dont 
think it was suitable. 
The policy terms and conditions cover landlords legal expenses for repossession, 
such that they can pursue their legal rights to repossess the property they have let 
under a tenancy agreement. However, tenancy agreement is defined by the policy 
as:
Tenancy Agreement
An agreement to let Your Residential Property
1. under an assured shorthold tenancy or
2. under a shorthold tenancy or
3. under an assured tenancy
as defined by the Housing Act 1988 as amended by the Housing Act 1996 
and the Assured Tenancies (Amendment) (England) Order 2010 or the 
Housing (Scotland) Act
FIS were aware that Mr Ks tenancy agreement was worth in excess of £100,000 per 
annum, as they had included this information in their proposal to ARAG:
I have a customer that needs a let property covering which is high net
Legal required 
Rent guarantee £120k per year required 
I can see that Mr K had also provided a copy of his tenancy agreement to FIS, and 
had specifically asked if the policy was suitable for his rental agreement, which FIS 
also asked of Arch on 8 July 2019:
I can get this on cover today, customer has sent his rental agreement and 
would like it confirming that it is suitable with regards to rent guarantee.FIS say they have since researched the matter and have found that a tenancy 
agreement cannot be an assured shorthold tenancy if the level of rental income 
exceeds £100,000. So, given that the broker was in possession of Mr Ks rental 
agreement, Im satisfied that FIS ought reasonably to have been aware that his 
tenancy would not have fallen into the definition of a tenancy agreement under the 
policy, because it was neither an assured, shorthold, or an assured shorthold 
tenancy, and would therefore not be covered under the policy. 
FIS say that Arch should have quickly identified that the rental agreement would not 
be covered under the policy, and I appreciate they were clear in communicating the 
requirements to Arch. But having clearly known what those requirements were  and 
as the broker that was recommending the policy to Mr K  they also ought to have 
checked the terms and conditions to ensure it was suitable for his needs. I do not 
think a broker exercising the care and skill that most reasonable, prudent brokers 
would expect, would have concluded that this policy was suitable for Mr K when he 
did not have a contract that fell within the policy definition of a Tenancy Agreement.  
Given that Mr K rented out his property under a common law tenancy, I consider the 
relevant policy term setting out the definition of Tenancy Agreement to be a 
significant term that ought to have been very clearly drawn to his attention at the 
point of sale (assuming FIS were happy to recommend a policy that seemed 
inherently unsuitable because of it). But I have not seen any evidence that this was 
highlighted or brought to Mr Ks attention by FIS. Had they done so, I do not think he 
would have agreed to take out this particular policy underwritten by Amtrust and 
wouldve likely continued his search for a policy that did cover his common law 
tenancy, and which would have covered the loss he has since suffered.
FIS have said that they are not aware of any other products on the market that would 
have covered Mr Ks common law tenancy. However, Mr K has since provided a 
copy of a Rent Protection policy provided by Paymentshield that I can see would 
have provided legal expenses and rent guarantee cover for his tenancy, as a 
common law tenancy is specifically included within the definition of a Tenancy 
Agreement in this policy. I also cant see any obvious reason why Mr Ks claim would 
not have been covered under this policy either.
The policy Mr K has brought to my attention was on the market at the time he took 
out the Amtrust policy through FIS. So, if FIS had brought the definition of Tenancy 
Agreement to his attention at the point of sale, Im satisfied he wouldnt have taken it 
out, and could have likely found cover elsewhere that did cover his tenancy. In other 
words, but for FISs failure to recommend a suitable policy and/or highlight the 
relevant policy definition, Mr Ks losses (i.e. his legal expenses and unpaid rent) 
would have otherwise been covered.
FIS have argued that it is Arch/ARAG in their capacity as the placing broker that is 
ultimately responsible for the mis-selling of the policy, as it is they who recommended 
an unsuitable policy to FIS. However, Mr K does not have any relationship with either 
Arch or ARAG. He has no contract or agreement with them with regards to the sale 
of the policy, so he would not be eligible to complain about the acts or omissions of 
either of these parties with regards to how they sold it to FIS. 
Archs customer in this instance was FIS, so if they consider the placing broker to 
responsible, then it would be incumbent on them to take legal action in that regard. 
Mr K was the customer of FIS, who had a duty to ensure he was receiving cover that 
was suitable and met his needs. It is therefore FIS that I consider to be fully responsible for the mis-selling of the policy to Mr K, and the losses that have 
stemmed from their negligence.
On that basis, and in order to put Mr K in the position he would have been but for 
FISs negligence, the broker will have to cover the full amount of the claim as well as 
any reasonably foreseeable, proximate losses that stemmed from the negligence. 
Therefore, I intend directing FIS to cover the legal costs and rent indemnity Mr K 
wouldve had paid if he had been sold the correct policy. 
Mr K is still in the process of instructing solicitors to evict his tenants and gain 
repossession of his property. The possession notice expires in April, at which point 
court proceedings will be issued for possession. So far, Mr K has incurred around 
£13,000 in legal costs, and his solicitors estimate that he will incur around £54,000 in 
total. 
So, I first intend directing FIS to reimburse Mr K any legal costs he has already 
incurred that would have been covered under the policy. Second, due to the ongoing 
nature of the legal proceedings, FIS will need to appoint a loss adjuster (at their own 
expense)  who should be chosen and instructed with Mr Ks agreement  to handle 
the claim going forwards as if it had been covered. FIS should then settle the legal 
expenses and rent indemnity claims in line with the loss adjusters recommendations.  
I appreciate that the Amtrust policy Mr K was sold does not provide cover for 
common law tenancies. So, I consider it would be fair and reasonable for the claim to 
be assessed in line with the policy Mr K has said he would have taken out with RSA: 
(https://www.paymentshield.co.uk/Media/Default/documents/pdfs/policy-
documents/Rent-Protection/PP00682_Rent-Protection-Policy-Booklet_25112019.pdf)
I also accept that FIS has caused distress and inconvenience to Mr K by mis-selling 
the policy to him, so I further intend awarding £250 compensation in recognition of 
the impact this has had. 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Mr K accepted the proposals set 
out in my provisional decision, but FIS disagreed. In summary, theyve said:
Arch was not a placing broker; they were the insurer of Mr Ks policy and so therefore 
wouldve had a direct contractual relationship with him. It was for Arch to ensure the 
cover was an accurate reflection of the insurance they were asked to provide, and 
they confirmed that it would cover Mr Ks requirements.
Both the quote and the policy schedule confirm the terms upon which Arch agreed to 
provide cover. It is these documents that reflect the true intentions of the parties. If 
Arch did not intend to provide cover for loss of rent and legal expenses, they would 
not have crossed the boxes for this. Arch agreed to provide cover to Mr K, and it 
must honour its agreement.
FIS is not an expert in landlord and tenant law, which was why it provided a copy of 
Mr Ks lease to Arch to ensure it was fully aware of the terms of the lease. FIS 
therefore acted with reasonable skill and care. 
There is no date or time stamp on the alternative policy booklet Mr K has provided, 
so it is not sufficient evidence of cover that could have been obtained elsewhere at 
the time. 
FIS has been informed by Paymentshield that they offer two types of rental 
protection; one of which is an extension to a comprehensive landlord buildings 
policy, and the second which was a stand-alone product. But neither of these policies would have provided cover for Mr Ks claim to a comparable level of the Arch policy, 
so it seems unlikely that Mr K would have chosen to purchase either of them given 
the limitation.
It isnt possible to determine which terms (if any) Mr K might have secured. And in 
any event, the rent guarantee cover with Paymentshield would be limited to £15,000 
for the comprehensive landlord policy or £30,000 for the stand-alone product.
Even if Mr K purchased either of these policies, it is not possible to determine if a 
claim under either of them would have been accepted in any event.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and after carefully considering FISs recent submissions, Ive still decided to 
uphold it.
Ive noted FISs comments about Archs obligations and responsibility to provide cover, but it 
hasnt changed my decision that FIS is the party responsible for covering Mr Ks claim in the 
circumstances of this case, as a result of their negligence in the sale of the policy. 
FIS have argued that Mr K does have a contract with Arch as they were the insurer of his 
policy. It is actually Amtrust that is the underwriter/insurer of Mr Ks policy. But even if Arch 
were the insurer, Mr K still wouldnt have a contractual relationship with them with regards to 
the sale of the policy, which is what he has complained about. So, in whatever capacity Arch 
was acting when it provided the policy to FIS, it is clear that they were not selling anything to 
Mr K directly. 
It was FIS that was acting as Mr Ks broker in this instance, and they recommended the 
policy to him. He has subsequently complained that the policy was mis-sold. Therefore, the 
appropriate respondent to his complaint is the broker that sold it to him. Not an unconnected 
party who provided it to the broker to sell, of which Mr K had no direct dealing. As I set out in 
my provisional decision, if FIS are unhappy with the policy theyve been provided by Arch, 
then it will be incumbent upon them to take their own action in this respect. 
Mr K does not contend that his claim has been unfairly declined by Amtrust, as its clear that 
his common law tenancy is not covered under the policy. FIS submit that both the quote and 
policy schedule confirm the terms upon which Arch agreed to provide cover, which states 
that Mr K has cover for landlords legal expenses and rent indemnity of up to £250,000. 
But any claim made under either of these sections will always be subject to the full policy 
terms and conditions. It does not mean that the insured can avail themselves of cover up to 
the full limit irrespective of the circumstances and whether or not it meets the policy criteria. 
And I have not seen any evidence to suggest the insurer has since reneged on an 
agreement to specifically cover Mr Ks common law tenancy contrary to what is stipulated in 
the policy terms and conditions. However, in any event, Mr K is not complaining about the 
basis upon which his claim was declined, and Arch/ARAG are not party to this complaint. So 
there is no possible basis upon which they could be compelled to do anything (as FIS have 
requested) within this decision, which is concerned with the acts and omissions of FIS with 
regards to the sale of the policy.
I appreciate that FIS did provide a copy of the tenancy agreement to Arch. But I do not 
consider this would reasonably absolve them of any further responsibility to ensure the 
product they were providing to their customer was in fact suitable. I also appreciate that FIS 
are not experts in landlord and tenant law. But given they are in the business of selling landlord insurance to property owners, I don't think it is unreasonable to expect such an 
insurance broker to be familiar with the different types of tenancy, so that they can be sure 
that the insurance they are selling is fit for purpose, as they ought to have done for Mr K, 
particularly as they sold the policy on an advised basis. So, for the reasons Ive already set 
out above, Im satisfied that FIS can fairly be held liable on this basis. 
In terms of the alternative Paymentshield policy Mr K says he would have taken out, FIS 
submit that there is no date or timestamp on the policy documentation to show that it would 
have been available at the time he took out the Arch policy. However, Paymentshield have 
confirmed to this service that their rent protection and legal expenses policy has been 
available since January 2018. FIS sold the unsuitable policy to Mr K in July 2019. They say 
there is no date or time stamp on the policy to verify when it was in force, but the broker 
appears to have missed the policy edition date featured in the policy document link below 
(highlighted in bold), as well as a 2019 date that can also be found on the very last page of 
the document itself. There are two editions of the Paymentshield policy that appear to have 
been published in 2019, both of which cover common law tenancies for rent arrears and 
legal expenses on the same terms:
https://www.paymentshield.co.uk/Media/Default/documents/pdfs/policy-documents/Rent-
Protection/00606_rent-protection-policy-booklet-RPPS002_07032019.pdf
https://www.paymentshield.co.uk/Media/Default/documents/pdfs/policy-documents/Rent-
Protection/PP00682_Rent-Protection-Policy-Booklet_25112019.pdf
So, Im satisfied its more likely that not that the Paymentshield policy would have been 
available for Mr K to purchase in July 2019, which would have most likely covered his claim. 
I appreciate that the policy may not have necessarily provided a comparable level of cover 
than that which Mr K thought he was getting from the ARAG policy. But Ive seen little to 
persuade me that he wouldve most likely decided to take out no rent protection/legal 
expenses cover whatsoever if he had been made aware that his tenancy would not be 
covered by the Arch policy. Even if the alternative cover was perhaps more limited, it is still 
better than being left with no cover at all. So, I do not accept its likely that Mr K would have 
chosen to have no protection in place, rather than taking out an alternative policy that would 
have covered him at least to a certain extent.
I also understand that it isnt possible to determine exactly what terms Mr K would have been 
offered, and that the maximum amount he might have been able to claim for legal 
expenses/rent indemnity under the alternative Paymentshield policy might have been 
different. But it was precisely for this reason that I said FIS will need to appoint an 
independent loss adjuster to assess and calculate the claim in line with the Paymentshield 
policy terms and conditions that would have been in force at the time.
FIS have argued that it isnt possible to say whether Mr K would have had his claim 
accepted under the alternative policy. But neither have they presented any persuasive 
arguments to demonstrate that it would have likely been declined. And having reviewed the 
policy wording, there does not appear to be any obvious reason as to why the claim would 
not have been accepted. So, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, FIS (and the 
loss adjuster they subsequently appoint) will need to proceed on the basis that the claim 
would have been accepted.
FIS have said that there were different versions of the policy (either combined or standalone) 
that offered different levels of rent indemnity cover. If this is the case, then Mr Ks redress 
should be calculated in line with the higher level of cover offered in the standalone policy. 
Indeed, Mr K has said that he was happy with the other elements of cover he had under his landlords policy, so it seems most likely he would have purchased the rent protection/legal 
expenses cover as a separate standalone product  in any event. 
After having carefully considered FISs most recent submissions, the conclusions reached in 
my provisional decision remain unchanged. So, I will be directing the broker to compensate 
Mr K in line with the directions given below.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complains and direct Fairweather Insurance 
Services Ltd to:
Pay the legal costs Mr K has so far incurred towards evicting his tenant.
Appoint an independent loss adjuster (after seeking Mr Ks agreement as to which 
professional is to be appointed) to manage the claim going forwards as though it 
were covered under the Paymentshield policy, and settle the legal expenses and rent 
indemnity claims in line with the loss adjusters recommendations.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on any legal costs Mr K has already incurred from 
the date they were paid until the date of settlement. 
Pay £250 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman