DRN-2912288
The complaint
Mr C says he was mis-sold a whole of life policy alongside his mortgage by HSBC UK Bank 
PLC in 1999. He says it was unnecessary and he shouldnt have been forced to take it out. 
What happened
Mr C complained to HSBC in 2019 regarding the sale of his Midland Life Survival Plan. He 
explained that HSBCs adviser told him that he had to take out a HSBC group protection 
policy in order to secure mortgage lending. At that time, he was a self-employed contractor, 
was single, had no dependants and he told the adviser that the cover was not needed in his 
circumstances. 
However, he had a mortgage agreed in principle and had made an offer on a house based 
on that mortgage. So as he had understood that he needed a protection policy from a HSBC 
company to activate the mortgage, he said he had no other option but to take the policy in 
order to get on the housing ladder. Mr C explained that he let the policy lapse from 2009 as 
by this time he found a new provider that didnt require any protection policies to be held. 
HSBC said its records appeared to show Mr C took out the cover for family protection, not 
for mortgage protection, but in any event Mr Cs employment status would not have affected 
his ability to make a claim under the policy. HSBC also said Mr C was given cancellation 
rights, and he didnt have to go ahead with the recommendation if he didnt want to. 
Mr C referred the matter to this service, and supplied a completed payment protection 
insurance (PPI) questionnaire. He also explained that his copy of the policy paperwork 
showed that it was intended for mortgage protection, not family protection. 
HSBC clarified that there had in fact been a charge secured against Mr Cs property in 1999 
that was released when he remortgaged. It said it did have a requirement at that time to 
have a suitable protection policy in place. It also felt Mr C had brought his complaint outside 
of the time limits applying to this service.  
An investigator looked at the jurisdiction points raised by HSBC but he felt Mr C had made 
his complaint within time, as hed pursued it within three years from becoming aware he had 
cause for complaint. HSBC asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.  
An ombudsman said the complaint had been pursued within time. He was satisfied that Mr C 
wasnt reasonably aware he could make a complaint about the sale of the policy until 2019.
An investigator then considered the merits of the complaint but he did not think it should 
succeed. He said that the policy could have been of use to Mr C. And though it was a 
condition of the lending, it could have been cancelled in the future if Mr C no longer required 
it. In summary, he didnt believe the evidence showed that HSBC had been unreasonable in 
recommending a whole of life policy to Mr C in the circumstances. 
Mr C disagreed. He provided some further evidence of the financial planning review he 
underwent earlier in 1997 which showed he did not have any priority need for protection for 
family cover, critical illness or death benefit. 
He also made extensive further submissions to each paragraph of the investigators view. I 
thank Mr C for this and I have read everything Mr C has sent in. Though I wont be 
replicating his comments in full here. In summary, he said:
the value of the policys sum assured was chosen because of the mortgage lending;
lifestyle considerations were discounted on the fact find information because these 
werent relevant to him  he didnt have dependants and that remains the case;
his relationship with HSBC was based on the requirement for a mortgage and his 
copy of the relevant paperwork bears that out;
there are cheaper policies available now than the cover he was sold;
the investigator failed to consider commission and the effect of the Plevin rule;
he was denied the opportunity of seeking appropriate insurance elsewhere as HSBC 
insisted that cover must be taken through one of its group companies;
he does not question the provisions of the critical illness benefits under the policy, it 
is just that it was neither what he needed nor what he had requested;
he did not believe he could cancel the policy at the time, 
in fact, the policy was a mandatory provision in order to secure his home;
the policy chosen for him was determined based on the commission it would earn;
the entire complaint should be reconsidered based on his additional submissions. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Cs further comments but it didnt change his view on the 
complaint. Mr C therefore asked for the complaint the be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont believe this complaint should succeed. I can see Mr C has gone to a considerable 
effort to explain his circumstances at the time of the sale and hes supplied detailed 
comments concerning his view on the complaint. I wont be addressing each point raised, as 
my remit is to make findings on what I believe is fair and reasonable to both parties in the 
circumstances. I will set out what I consider are the central issues in this complaint. 
In summary, my findings are:
the Plevin rule Mr C referred to concerns commission payments for PPI premiums;
though Mr C has since submitted that he believes his policy contained an element of 
payment protection, his policy was not PPI it was a whole of life policy, with critical 
illness and disability benefit;
I recognise that Mr C had a long-standing relationship with HSBC and that he had 
visited his local branch in 1997 in the first instance to finance his first home;
by the time he purchased a different home two years later, this was in a new part of 
the country and necessitated a visit to a differing branch;   
however on the first visit to HSBC, the adviser made clear on the financial planning 
report that while Mr C (being single, a contractor and without dependants) did not 
have a documented need for any type of protection policy, it was required by HSBC 
in order to secure a mortgage at that time;
for that reason, Mr C was then sent a letter of 17 December 1997 by HSBC where it 
agreed a mortgage in principle for the first property and set out the conditions for the 
lending;though this first sale fell through, the letter confirmed HSBCs lending requirements, if 
Mr C had wanted to raise his mortgage funds through it;
the letter explained as discussed, we will not insist on life cover, but require critical 
illness cover for the reasons described;
HSBC required security for the lending in the form of critical illness cover and it could 
reasonably decide the criteria for which it was prepared to lend funds;
HSBC was not required to allow Mr C to choose a different provider  it was a 
condition of the lending to take out HSBC group cover;
if Mr C had been unhappy with the provision that he held such a policy with HSBC, 
then he could have decided to apply for his lending elsewhere in the two year period;
irrespective of the requirement for such cover, I do not find the proposal was an 
unreasonable recommendation for the adviser to make in Mr Cs circumstances; 
I recognise that a term assurance policy is the generally recommended type of cover 
for mortgage lending  as it has a set sum assured for the policy term, either a level 
sum for interest-only mortgages or a decreasing sum reducing broadly in line with the 
repayments of a debt;
however, Mr C had specifically told HSBC that he did not need repayment of the debt 
if he were to pass away, because he had no dependants and this would not change;
the adviser proposed the Survival Plan as it was the closest fit of the policies HSBC 
had available to it, in that it would provide Mr C with cover if he fell ill with any of a list 
of defined illnesses (meeting the business requirement for critical illness cover to be 
held) whilst having an investment element over the term;
Mr C is recorded as not having any cover, savings or investments of this nature;
I dont believe that merely because the policy had an investment element that it was 
unsuitable for the intended purpose of providing security for HSBC;
and Mr C as a contractor would not have had sickness benefits available to 
employees  critical illness cover was a sensible consideration in his circumstances 
as a sole first-time property buyer;
though Mr C was in contracted employment at the time of the lending, this was not a 
barrier to taking out this type of whole of life policy;
Mr Cs redress proposal of a refund of premiums or a comparison to another policy 
such as term assurance does not account for the fact that he received a surrender 
value of £11,173.09 in 2013  a term assurance policy has no cash-in value;
the comparisons he has supplied are from 2021  it is not possible to compare those 
with the cost of cover available from HSBC in 1999;   
in any event, the comparisons are for ASU (accident, sickness and unemployment) 
cover and income protection policies which are a different type of cover altogether;
as Ive said above, I believe that the policy proposed was suitable for HSBC to 
recommend, given Mr Cs particular needs and requirements;
Mr C has had the benefit of the cover whilst the policy was in force as well as 
receiving a surrender value. 
For the above reasons, I do not believe this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint nor do I make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman