DRN-1419123
 
The complaint
Mr B complains Debt Managers (Services) Limited (DMSL) has wrongly reported the date 
of a default to credit reference agencies (CRAs). He asks for the default date to be 
backdated.
What happened
Mr B held an account with a third-party company Ill call company S. The account fell 
into arrears and it served a default notice on 7 February 2018.
In March 2019, Company S wrote to Mr B to explain it was in the process of allocating 
his account to an external debt collection agency.
On 1 May 2019, the account was assigned to DMSL. It updated the information on Mr 
Bs credit file to show it was now the legal owner of the debt and responsible for future 
reporting. The default date on the credit file shows as 25 March 2019.
Mr B is unhappy that the default date hasnt been recorded within 21 days of the date 
the default notice was served. He has also noted that different credit reference agencies 
hold different information about this account.
Mr B doesnt agree that DMSL can legitimately purchase an account that Company S 
failed to default correctly in line with his understanding of the relevant legislation. He 
believes this is an attempt to frustrate the six-year rule, and so he complained to DMSL.
In its final response dated 22 July 2019, DMSL explained it purchased the account in 
good faith from Company S on 1 May 2019. It points out the original account was 
defaulted by Company S on 25 March 2019. It reported the change in legal ownership, 
as its required to do and from the date it acquired the account, it will take over 
responsibility for updating Mr Bs credit file on a monthly basis. It explained this was to 
ensure transparency to all creditors and to ensure Mr Bs credit file remains accurate 
and up to date. It said it had complied with all relevant policies and procedures and didnt 
uphold his complaint.
Mr B remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things for Mr B. She found that DMSL had legitimately purchased the 
account from Company S and found no evidence of a regulatory breach. She explained 
that as Company S had already defaulted the account prior to selling it to DMSL, it 
wasnt possible to default it again and DMSL were not able to amend the default date as 
it hadnt registered it in the first place. She found DMSL had correctly notified the CRAs 
of the new legal ownership and has reassured Mr B, it didnt intend to take any legal 
action or put Mr B under any further financial strain and would work with him to reach a 
satisfactory payment arrangement. In her view, DMSL, had acted fairly and reasonably 
and so she didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr B disagreed. He points out the default notice was issued on 7 February 2018, but the 
default was only reported to credit reference agencies on 25 March 2019, which is some 
13 months later. He says it should have been reported within 21 days and as such he 
wants the default backdated and compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused. He asked for an ombudsman review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigators view. I understand this will come 
as a disappointment to Mr B, Ill explain why.
Firstly, I appreciate Mr B has been waiting sometime for a decision for and I thank him for his 
patience. Its important to gather all the relevant information regarding a complaint and this 
can take some time. Id like to reassure Mr B, Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im also aware that Mr B has raised concerns about Company S and the credit reference 
agencies. In this decision I am only looking at the actions of DMSL and whether it has acted 
fairly and reasonably in its debt collecting activities although I may refer to Company S for 
the purpose of context.
The Consumer Credit Act (CCA 1974) explains what actions can be taken after a creditor 
has served a default notice, it says:
Service of a notice on the debtor or hirer in accordance
with section 88 (a default notice) is necessary before the
creditor or owner can become entitled, by reason of any
breach by the debtor or hirer of a regulated agreement, 
(a)to terminate the agreement, or
(b)to demand earlier payment of any sum, or
(c)to recover possession of any goods or land, or
(d)to treat any right conferred on the debtor or hirer by the
agreement as terminated, restricted or deferred, or
(e)to enforce any security.
The legislation requires a creditor to have served notice of a default rather than defaulted the 
account before a debt can be sold or assigned to a third party. In this case, the default notice 
was served on 7 February 2018 by Company S. It wrote again to Mr B on 9 March 2019 to 
explain his account was in the process of being allocated to an external debt collection 
agency. It reported a default on the account to CRAs on 25 March 2019 and assigned the 
debt to DMSL on 1 May 2019.
As the notice of default had been served before the debt was assigned to DMSL Im satisfied 
it was met the legal requirements and DMSL has legitimately purchased the debt.
When DMSL purchased the debt, it took over legal ownership and as such was required to 
comply with the relevant legislation.
The information commissioners office (ICO) has issued principles for the reporting of 
arrears, arrangements and defaults at credit reference agencies which gives lenders 
guidance on what to do in such situations. The first principle is that data reported on a credit 
file must be fair, accurate, consistent, complete and up to date, and further that should 
your account be sold or referred to another lending organisation or a debt collection agency, 
the records provided . must still be accurate and up to date.
Company S had already reported a default date to the CRAs before DMSL purchased the 
debt. Its responsibility is for payments and reporting fair, accurate and up to date information 
from the date it purchased the debt, in this case, 1 May 2019. So, its not within DMSLs 
remit to make any alteration to a default date reported.I can see Mr B contends the date of the default should have been earlier than actual date it 
was reported, but this is a matter for Company S and as I understand it, he has raised a 
complaint directly with them. I cant fairly hold DMSL responsible for information reported by 
another company and before it purchased the debt.
As the account has been sold to DMSL as a defaulted account, it cant default again. Im 
aware DMSL have agreed to look at Mr Bs financial circumstances to try and come to a 
payment arrangement, and Id expect them to be sympathetic in their approach but Im not 
going to ask them to do anything further regarding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman