DRN-4103913
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt returned funds they lost as a 
result of a scam.
What happened
On 6 September 2021 an international transfer for £21,238 from Mr and Mrs Gs account 
was picked up by Barclays systems for further checks. Barclays spoke with Mr G and asked 
him various questions about the proposed transfer. Mr G advised the transfer was being 
made for investment purposes and that the company had been recommended by a friend. 
Mr G told the agent he spoke with he had confidence in the business he was sending money 
to and would be making similar transfers in the months that followed. The payment was 
authorised and sent. Another transfer for the same business was made a couple of days 
later. 
On 1 October 2021 a £50,000 transfer and currency conversion to dollars was instructed to a 
bank in Serbia and approved. Mr Gs explained that the investment company he was dealing 
with later advised him the payment instruction needed amending and that the funds hadnt 
been received. Mr G instructed a further payment on 4 October 2021 which was authorised.
In the days that followed, Mr G contacted Barclays to discuss amending the payment details 
on the transfers. 
On 29 November 2021, a third transfer and currency conversion for £50,000 was instructed 
and sent to the same bank in Serbia. The transfer was approved and sent in line with the 
instructions. 
On 17 January 2022 a transfer for £47,670 was instructed and picked up by Barclays fraud 
prevention system for further checks. When Barclays spoke with Mr G he confirmed the 
transfer was for investment purposes and that he was satisfied the business he was sending 
the funds to was genuine. The payment was authorised by Barclays. 
In February 2022 Mr G contacted Barclays to ask about the transfers made in October 2022. 
Mr G has told us he was expecting Barclays to recall the transfer instructed on 1 October 
2022. But Mr G says Barclays attempted to recall the wrong transfer. Barclays told Mr G the 
receiving bank had responded to the recall attempt it made and confirmed the transfer had 
been applied to the relevant account and the funds werent returned. 
In April 2022 Mr G raised a fraud case with Barclays and explained theyd fallen victim to a 
scam. Barclays was able to retrieve the £47,670 transfer made on 17 January 2022, but 
wasnt able to get back the other transfers Mr and Mrs G made. Mr and Mrs G went on to 
raise a complaint. 
Barclays issued final responses to Mr and Mrs G but didnt agree it had made mistakes 
when processing transfer instructions it received. Barclays refunded the £47,670 transfer 
made to an account in the UK. But it was unable to recall the other transfers that were sent 
abroad. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. They thought Barclays 
could have done more when speaking with Mr G in September 2021. But the investigator 
thought Mr and Mrs G would still most likely have proceeded with their transfers, even if 
Barclays had given a more comprehensive fraud warning. In response Mr and Mrs G asked 
to appeal. Mr G said the investment firm had been added to scam watch lists in April 2022 
and that the transfers from his account were unusual and should have caused Barclays to do 
more to investigate whether they were genuine. Mr G has told us they wouldnt have 
proceeded with the transfers if theyd received effective warnings from Barclays. As Mr and 
Mrs G asked to appeal, their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Like the investigator, I think Barclays shouldve given a more comprehensive warnings about 
fraud and scams when he spoke with it in September 2021. The transcript shows the agent 
did ask Mr G questions about the transfer instruction and why he was sending funds abroad. 
But Ive seen the fraud warnings Barclays says it gives as standard, and it includes details 
that werent passed on to Mr G. I also think Mr G makes a reasonable point when he says 
the subsequent transfers he sent in October 2021 were unusual and that further fraud 
checks werent completed. I agree Barclays couldve given more comprehensive warnings to 
Mr and Mrs G before approving the transfer instructions. 
Whilst I agree Barclays could have done more, I need to consider what Mr and Mrs G 
wouldve done differently if they had received more comprehensive warnings. Specifically, I 
need to consider whether further or more comprehensive fraud warnings wouldve made the 
difference between Mr and Mrs G proceeding or not with the transfers. 
Mr G has forwarded marketing information he received from the investment firm, including a 
prospectus and terms and conditions. The documents appear professional and its clear Mr 
and Mrs G were persuaded they were genuine. In addition, when Mr G spoke with Barclays 
in September 2021 the agent asked various questions about the transfer including how hed 
found out about the investment business. Mr Gs responses assured the agent he was 
happy the investment was genuine and that it wasnt a scam. Mr G advised a friend had 
referred him to the investment business. And Mr G also advised he would be making a 
number of other investments in the months that followed, which is what he went on to do in 
October and November 2021.
I also think its fair to note that Mr and Mrs Gs transfer in January 2022 was picked up by 
Barclays and held for fraud checks. Again, Mr G confirmed the transfer was genuine and that 
he was satisfied it wasnt fraudulent. So, whilst I understand Mr and Mrs G later found theyd 
been the victims of scammers, I think its fair to say that as late as January 2022 they 
remained of the view that the transfers were being made to a genuine business. Based on 
the information available, I think its more likely than not that even if Barclays had given more comprehensive fraud warnings or held the October and November 2021 transfers for further 
checks, Mr and Mrs G would have authorised them as genuine. 
Mr G has pointed to the emails and contact he had with Barclays in October 2021 when he 
queried the payment details used in the transfer. But both transfers instructed in October 
2021 contained the necessary details to allow them to go through. And it appears that Mr G 
was told that the first transfer hadnt been received when it had instead gone through. Whilst 
I can see a lot of exchanges between Mr G and Barclays, they related to the details 
contained within the payment instructions rather than raising concerns that they were 
fraudulent. Mr Gs told us that he thinks the enquiries he made to Barclays at this time 
shouldve given it the chance to identify the transfers as being fraudulent. But the transfers 
had already been approved and Mr Gs enquiries were focused on the details that were 
included. 
When Mr G notified Barclays they had been the victims of a scam it tried to recall all the 
transfers sent since September 2021. Unfortunately, whilst it was possible to refund the 
transfer for £47,670 sent in January 2022, the other transfers werent returned by the 
receiving banks. Ultimately as Barclays was unable to retrieve the funds from the 
beneficiaries it couldnt return them to Mr and Mrs G. I understand why Mr and Mrs G remain 
upset that Barclays was unable to recover their funds, but Im satisfied it made reasonable 
attempts to do so. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G but as Im satisfied Barclays dealt with their 
complaint fairly, Im not telling it to refund the remaining transfers or take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman