DRN-3678580
The complaint
Mr K complains about Zurich Insurance PLCs handling of his buildings insurance claim.
All references to Zurich also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My decision focusses on events up to the date of Zurichs final response in November 2021. 
Any reference to dates following this are for contextual purposes only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Having looked all the available evidence, I can see there were times where the 
claims progress was unnecessarily delayed  for example regarding the drying 
assessment.
Mr K has referred to the amount of times he had to be present at the property to 
liaise with Zurich. And the inconvenience this caused him.
I also appreciate Mr Ks comments regarding the difficulties the ongoing situation has 
created with his tenants.
Zurich accepted it could have provided a better service to Mr K. It has offered 
Mr K £500 compensation in recognition of this. Mr K has my natural sympathy for the 
issues hes described but having considered all the information available, I think 
Zurichs offer is reasonable and fairly represents the inconvenience he has suffered.
Mr K said he has provided evidence of his loss of rent to Zurich. Hes said he has 
provided us with the same information. Ive reviewed the document  which is a copy 
of a tenancy agreement from April to October 2021. 
Although this demonstrates Mr K had tenants living at the property, which isnt in 
dispute, Im not satisfied this proves a loss of rent  and Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me this is the case.
Zurich have said in its final response that it would consider a loss of rent claim under 
the terms of the policy. In doing so it has asked Mr K to provide further information to 
support this. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr K has also said he is unhappy with the cash settlement offered by Zurich. But as 
Ive set out above, my decision only refers to events up to and considered in Zurichs 
final response. Mr K would need to refer his concerns to Zurich in the first instance, 
and he can consider bringing a new complaint to our service should he be unhappy 
with its response.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman