DRN-2228999
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Ms D says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold her 
PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Ms Ds 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although Bank of 
Scotland said it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, it had 
made an offer as if it had.
Ms Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion it didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments it had previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ds. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. But in any event Bank of Scotland has paid back 
some of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised 
my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that Ms D didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because, although Bank of Scotland couldnt provide Ms 
Ds credit agreement, it did send in a sample copy, and I can see that Ms D wouldve had 
to tick a box to say she wanted PPI. I think she could simply have left it blank if she didnt 
want it. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Ms D, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her. And the evidence about Ms Ds circumstances at the time shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example Ms D was eligible 
for the cover and she said she wasnt entitled to sick pay from her employer, and nor did 
she have any savings to fall back on. So she had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Ms Ds employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And although Ms D says she had had a health problem before 
the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Bank of Scotland to have 
recommended it. I say this because Ms D didnt say anything to suggest that the problem 
had recurred or was ongoing, so I dont think its likely she wouldve considered it the 
main reason shed have needed to claim on the PPI.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Ms D about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out, so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms D as I concluded above, 
or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information 
she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems as though it would have 
been useful for her had something gone wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms D would 
have declined the cover had Bank of Scotland done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Ms Ds circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think 
she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Ms D would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy couldve 
provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms Ds representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Bank of Scotland should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact they 
had on the chances of making a claim.
But Ms Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Ds particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms D.
non-disclosure of commissionAs I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Bank of Scotland didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received  but in any event Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of PPI, so 
theres nothing more it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Ms Ds representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint, including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary, it has said Ms D should get back all the money she paid for the policy, because 
Bank of Scotland failed to tell her about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because, it says, that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Ms D wouldnt have taken out the policy had she 
known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the premiums 
she paid.
But in this case, Bank of Scotland has told us that the commission for Ms Ds PPI was 
expected to be less than half of what she paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Bank 
of Scotland has worked this out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that this was 
the case.
So, taking into account:
- the effect of sections 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Bank of Scotland needed to tell Ms D about the commission. So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Bank of Scotland 
treated Ms D unfairly. 
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt need to pay Ms D back any of the commission she 
paid for the PPI. But in any event Bank of Scotland has paid back to Ms D some of the cost 
of the PPI to compensate her as if it had treated her unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMy final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Ms Ds complaint or make any award in her 
favour for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Ms D paid for the PPI. But Bank 
of Scotland plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms D. So Bank of Scotland plc 
doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman