DRN-1491428
 
The complaint
Ms R says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Ms R bought the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Rs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasn't mis-sold and I've set out my reasons below: 
I think Lloyds made Ms R aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. I say this because the credit card application form was completed to show that Ms 
R wanted the cover. The PPI was included on the application form as an Optional 
feature for the credit card. And it seems there were other optional features available 
to Ms R that she decided not to take. So on balance I think Ms R would've realised 
she had a choice about buying the PPI.
Lloyds accepts it probably recommended the PPI to Ms R, but it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Even though Ms R says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to these benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. 
Ms R has also told me she had substantial savings when she took out the credit card. 
But I understand these were ear-marked for a house deposit, so I can't safely say 
that the money would've been readily available to Ms R if she was off work because 
of sickness or redundancy. Ms R has also mentioned other employer benefits, 
including death in service benefit and her pension. But the death in service 
benefit would only be paid in the event of death, and Ms R's pension wouldn't be paid 
until she retired. So the PPI wasn't duplicating these other benefits. Overall, I think 
Ms R wouldve had some use for the policy, despite her existing arrangements.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Ms R would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Which means Lloyds doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms R.
 Ive thought about everything Ms R has said - including what she's said about her 
husband's successful PPI claim against Lloyds. But we assess each complaint according 
to its own circumstances. And having done so in this case, I'm not persuaded that the PPI 
was mis-sold. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms R because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms R about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms R.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Ms R any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman