DRN-2584334
The complaint
  Mr J complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) refused to let him 
reject a faulty car.
What happened
On 7 August 2020 Mr J acquired a second-hand car costing £8,064 funded by a deposit of 
£1,200 and the balance with a hire purchase agreement. It was some years six old and had 
covered 23,269 miles. Within few days he encountered a problem with engine losing power 
and a warning light coming on. He also says that the car didnt have its pre-sale service. He 
had it checked by a local garage and the mechanic identified a fault code related to the eco 
boost system.
Within the first 30 days Mr J notified BMWFS and the dealer that he wished to reject the car. 
The latter told him it was entitled to the right to repair the car. Mr J was asked to drop the car 
off at the dealer and he arranged for it to be transported. The dealer says it carried out a 
diagnostic test and could find no fault. It also said it carried out a road test and found no loss 
of power. BMWFS didnt consider rejection to be appropriate but offered Mr J a refund of 
three months payments due to the time it had taken to respond to his request.
Mr J remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to this service where it was considered 
by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. 
He said Mr J had asked to reject the car within the 30-day period in which he was entitled to 
do so. Mr J had supplied an independent diagnostic report and a photograph of an 
illuminated engine management light. These were consistent with the fault Mr J had 
encountered within a few days of acquiring the car. 
He noted the diagnostic report was dated 1 September 2020 and shows 23,522 miles had 
been covered and the supported the power loss reported by Mr J. He also noted the 
comment by the dealer stating it couldnt find a fault but given Mr J had supplied 
independent evidence he believed BMWFS was obliged to do more to demonstrate the car 
was fit for purpose. He concluded Mr J should be allowed to reject it.
BMWFS didnt agree and said that diagnostic report supplied by the dealer had come from a 
sister company and it believed this carried more weight than the independent report which 
had been done at Mr Js property.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BMWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history. 
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Under consumer law Mr J had the right to reject the car if it was faulty and the dealer had no 
right of repair since the rejection was made within 30 days. Regrettably the dealer was 
unaware of this and presumed it the right to effect a repair. When Mr J pushed his request 
for rejection with BMWFS it chased up the dealer to respond. Only after BMWFS suggested 
the complaint may be upheld by this service did the dealer respond with it statement that no 
fault could be found. 
I note the invoice from the independent garage is dated 1 September, but that doesnt mean 
that the inspection was carried out on that date  it may well have been done earlier. 
However, it is clear that an independent third party mechanic identified a fault and I can see 
no reason why that should not have been sufficient to allow BMWFS to process the 
rejection. 
If it had any grounds to doubt that report than I would have thought that a second 
independent inspection would have been sought. In short Mr J had a problem with the car. 
He obtained independent support to confirm the fault and the obvious response should have 
been rejection. Not least because the fault reported is not uncommon in this make and 
model. 
In conclusion I consider this complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
 Mr should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:
Accept the rejection of the car. I understand the car is already with the selling retailer 
so it should be considered that the car has already been returned.
Any storage charges imposed or intended for the time the car has been with the 
selling retailer, should be removed.
Return Mr Js deposit with 8% simple interest from the date it was paid until 
settlement.
Refund all monthly payments made to date in line with the terms for short term right 
to reject.
Reimburse Mr J for the cost of the diagnostic report subject to him supplying the 
invoice.
Pay him £200 compensation for the inconvenience of having a car that doesnt 
conform to the contract, as well as the already acknowledged inconvenience.
The agreement should be removed from Mr Js credit file as it should be treated as if 
it were never entered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman