DRN-2051246
The complaint
Mr W complains that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) (Agria) declined his pet insurance 
claim. 
What happened
Mr W submitted a claim for surgery for his dog which took place in July 2019. The claim was 
for a condition called cherry eye that affected both of the dogs eyes. The condition was 
diagnosed at different times but the surgery to rectify the issue took place at the same time. 
Agria declined the claim. 
Mr W received four free weeks of pet insurance which started on 7 June 2019 and the 12-
month policy began following the end of the free four weeks. Mr W arranged the insurance 
online. 
On 13 June 2019 Mr W received some medication for his dogs eye in order to treat 
conjunctivitis. On 17 June 2019 Mr W contacted the vet to say that the conjunctivitis had 
cleared up but that it appeared that the dog now had cherry eye. An appointment was 
arranged for 21 June 2019 at which the vet confirmed that there was cherry eye present in 
the left eye and the right eye still appeared to have conjunctivitis. The note also says that 
cherry eye might be about to form in the right eye. 
On 4 July 2019 the vets notes say that mild cherry eye was starting in the right eye. The 
notes go on to say that it is likely that both eyes will need operating on at the same time. The 
surgery took place on 18 July 2019 to both eyes. 
In September 2019 Mr W submitted his claim to Agria for the surgery. Agria declined the 
claim on the basis that the cherry eye was diagnosed within an exclusion period within 
inception of the policy. Agria said that since Mr Ms policy began on 7 June 2019 his cover 
for illness started on 21 June 2019. It said that the cherry eye was first noted on 17 June 
2019 and therefore the claim was denied. 
Following a complaint from Mr W Agria reassessed the claim on the basis of some further 
information provided by Mr W including a letter from the vet regarding dates of diagnosis for 
the condition, but the claim was denied. 
Mr A was unhappy with Agrias response and asked us to look into things. One of our 
investigators did so but having reviewed all of the information felt that Agria had declined the 
claim fairly and in line with its policy terms. Mr A didnt agree with this. He felt that the terms 
and conditions of the policy were unfair and that the condition in the right eye should be 
considered a separate condition to that of the left eye. The complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain that I need to consider what the policy says about whether 
claims would be paid in this situation. And if Im satisfied that the terms say they wouldnt 
pay out, whether thats a fair and reasonable approach to take. 
The policy that Mr W purchased states that we will not payany treatment resulting from an 
illness that showed clinical signs within the first 14 days pf the policy.  Mr Ws policy began 
on 7 June 2019 and therefore illness was not covered by the policy until 21 June 2019. I can 
see from the vets notes that Mr W contacted the surgery on 17 June 2019 to say that the 
dog had what he thought was cherry eye. The notes say that the cherry eye was bilateral 
however the vet has since told Agria that the cherry eye was unilateral at that point. I am 
therefore satisfied that Agria acted in line with their terms and condition in declining this part 
of the claim. 
The policy has defined some of its terms as follows;
 clinical sign(s)  changes to your pets normal healthy state, physical appearance, its 
bodily functions or behaviour  
Pre-existing illness or injury - an injury that happened, or an illness that first showed 
clinical signs before your pets policy started; or an injury or illness that is the same as, or 
has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had 
before your policy started; or an injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, 
an injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had before your policy started, no matter where any 
of the injuries, illnesses or clinical signs are noticed or happen in, or on, your pets body
Mr W noticed the changes to his dogs eye and told his vet on 17 June 2019. The diagnosis 
was then confirmed in the follow up appointment on 21 June. I am satisfied that Mr W 
noticed a change in his pets physical appearance as per the terms of his policy. There is 
nothing within the policy to say that the clinical sign needs to be noticed or confirmed by a 
vet in order to qualify. 
The policy also confirms that Agria will not pay for any bilateral conditions. The policy defines 
a bilateral disorder as any medical disorder that can affect parts of your pets body that it 
has one of on each side of its body, including ears, eyes, knees, front and back legs and 
feet, cruciate ligaments, hips, shoulders and elbows. The cherry eye was in both eyes even 
though it was not diagnosed at the same time.
I can see that Mr W feels very strongly that the condition in each eye should be considered 
separately and that his own observation of his dogs suspected cherry eye should not be 
considered a formal diagnosis. When looking at complaints such as these I look at the terms 
and conditions of the policy as agreed at the time the policy was taken out and whether the 
application of the terms was fair in the circumstances. The policy is clear in how it defines 
clinical signs and bilateral conditions. 
Mr W has said that he thinks the terms of his policy are unfair but the terms are typical to 
those in other pet insurance policies. I dont consider the bilateral conditions policy term is 
unfair. But in any event Mr W would have had the opportunity to review the terms prior to 
taking out the policy. 
The vet has made representations on behalf of Mr W and has confirmed that the cherry eye 
in both eyes is unrelated, and that its possible for a dog to get cherry eye in one eye only. I 
understand that this may be the case however the issue here is not whether the condition in each eye is related; it is whether the policy covers bilateral conditions that can affect both 
eyes. And in this case the policy is clear that it does not. 
So taking everything into account I am satisfied that Agria acted fairly in not meeting the 
claim for the surgery. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above Im not upholding Mr As complaint against Forsakringsaktiebolaget 
Agria (publ)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman