DRN-2957940
The complaint
 Ms A complains about her bank, Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis), regarding a default they 
applied to her credit card account. 
What happened
In January 2018 Ms A took out a credit card account with Vanquis. No payment in respect of 
the outstanding balance on the account was made between April 2018 and July 2018, so 
Vanquis told Ms A that they would need to pass her account to a debt collection agency. Ms 
A contacted Vanquis, telling them that she had recently become unemployed, causing her 
financial difficulty, but that she had taken up new employment. In response, Vanquis agreed 
a payment plan with Ms A, but no payments were received. 
Vanquis then sent a notice of default on the account to Ms A in August 2018.  At that point 
there was a balance of £574 on the account (against a credit limit of £500) and payments 
totalling £138 were outstanding. Vanquis then suspended the account in September 2018 
and passed it to a debt collection agency in October 2018. Vanquis subsequently applied 
late payment and default markers against the account in November 2018.
 
Ms A was unhappy at the decision to apply a default to the account and complained to 
Vanquis in March 2021, asking that they remove the default because of the difficulties she 
was experiencing at the time, including being in an abusive relationship. Vanquis considered 
Ms As complaint but didnt uphold it. In their final response they declined to remove the 
default because they hadnt made any errors and, in accordance with banking industry 
practice, had to apply the late payment and default markers as an accurate reflection of the 
activity on the account.
Ms A didnt think Vanquis considered her complaint fairly and complained to this service. 
She was unhappy at Vanquis applying the default to her account, given the difficult 
circumstances she was facing at the time. Ms A said this meant that she wasnt in control of 
her finances. Ms A wanted Vanquis to remove the default.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding that Vanquis hadnt acted fairly. He 
thought that, based on the evidence of what Ms A said about the nature of the difficulties she 
had faced in the period leading up to the default being applied, she wasnt fully in control of 
her finances. Because of this, the investigator concluded that while Vanquis hadnt done 
anything wrong, he thought they should remove the default.
Vanquis disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. Vanquis thought that Ms A had the opportunity to tell them about the nature of 
the difficulties she faced, both in the period before the default was applied and subsequently 
in the time before she complained to them, but hadnt done so. They also said, given the 
investigators view that they hadnt made any errors, they werent able to remove the default, 
which had to be a true and accurate record of Ms As account. But Vanquis offered to 
backdate the default to July 2018 (when three payments had been missed). They also noted 
that the outstanding account balance had been cleared (in February 2021) so the default 
was showing as satisfied. They said this would, over time, reduce the impact of the default.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered very carefully what Ms A has told us about her circumstances at the time that 
she took out the account and the nature of the domestic abuse she suffered from her former 
 now deceased - partner. I recognise that this was very difficult for her. I know that she 
wants to move on and start afresh. This has been at the forefront of my mind when reaching 
this decision and I hope what Ive said here makes clear how Ive reached this decision.
The main element of Ms As complaint is that Vanquis havent considered her complaint 
fairly, including the circumstances that she faced, and that this means the default should be 
removed. Vanquis have said that, while they have no reason to doubt what Ms A has told us, 
she had ample opportunity to tell them about the abuse (both before the default was applied 
and subsequently). Ive considered these points carefully. Ms A has described the nature of 
the abuse, including details of the controlling behaviour of her former partner, the nature of 
which I think would have precluded her from telling Vanquis of the full circumstances before 
the default was applied.
 
Vanquis also argue that Ms A could also have told them about her position after the account 
was suspended (because that meant a third party could no longer benefit from the account). 
However, I dont think this is persuasive, given the evidence Ms A has provided of the 
subsequent criminal conviction of her former partner, including its timing, which I think 
supports what she told us about the abuse she suffered and why she would not have felt 
able to tell Vanquis about it at the time, or subsequently. Vanquiss point about Ms A being 
able to tell them about her position after the account was suspended (and the default 
applied) is also not consistent with Vanquiss other main argument, that they are unable to 
remove the default because it has to be an accurate record of activity on the account.
  
On the point about Vanquis not having made an error, I agree that they responded 
appropriately to activity on the account, including the missed payments and the account 
balance exceeding the credit limit. Ive listened closely to the key call between Ms A and 
Vanquis (at the start of August 2018) following their initial notice of their intention to apply a 
default. A payment plan was agreed under which Ms A was to make payments at regular 
intervals. I also recognise that Vanquis asked Ms A about her financial circumstances, in 
particular her becoming unemployed but then starting new employment. The discussion also 
covers Ms As health vulnerability. I think Vanquis acted fairly and reasonably in setting up 
an interest free agreement with Ms A. I also think that was reasonable, as no payments were 
subsequently made, for Vanquis to then follow the process they did leading to the default 
being applied.
 
Ive also considered Vanquiss offer, in response to our investigators view, to backdate the 
default applied to Ms As account to July 2018 (when three payments had been missed). Ive 
also considered the point about the outstanding account balance now having been cleared, 
so the default is showing as satisfied. I agree that, as the default would now be over three 
years ago. over time this is likely to reduce the impact of the default recorded in terms of 
potential future credit for Ms A. While I recognise that, in making the offer, Vanquis have 
sought to reduce the impact of the default on Ms As ability to obtain future credit, its likely 
that the fact of there being a default applied is likely to have a significant impact on Ms A.
Ive thought carefully about all these points when deciding what would be a fair and 
reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances. As Ive said, given the situation and 
circumstances that Vanquis were aware of in the period leading up to the default being 
applied, I think they acted fairly and reasonably. 
However, Ive also thought carefully about what would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  as they now are, given what Ms A has told us about the nature of her 
relationship with her late partner and the impact that had on her. Ive also considered the 
independent evidence [the conviction] shes provided and I think this lends weight to her 
testimony, which I find credible. Ive also looked at the account statements  Ms A says that 
most of the spending was carried out by her former partner and she didnt benefit from it. 
While its difficult to tell that from the statements, which appear to show routine expenditure, 
given what Ms A has said about the nature of the relationship I think its likely that Ms A 
didnt benefit from all the of the expenditure.
Considering all these points, Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that Ms A was a 
victim of domestic abuse and that this card was taken out in those circumstances. Shes no 
longer in that situation and is taking steps to rebuild her life and move on from the 
relationship and its consequences.
I recognise there are important reasons for credit files. They record the conduct of an 
account  and are used to inform future lending decisions, which protects both lender and 
borrower from inappropriate lending. And its important that they are an accurate record of 
the accounts conduct.
But I also need to think about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. While, in 
the particular circumstances of this case, the credit file is an accurate record of how the 
account was conducted at the time, I dont think it reflects the important context in which Ms 
A took out the account, the duress from her then partner and the likelihood that she didnt 
benefit, at least in part, from the expenditure on the account. While her loss of employment 
affected her ability to keep up with the payments, without the abuse I think its unlikely she 
would have taken the card out in the first place, and so wouldnt have been in this position.
As Ive acknowledged, Vanquis isnt responsible for any of what happened to Ms A and 
wasnt aware of the situation at the time. But now these things are known, I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to continue to record the default on Ms As credit file without the crucial 
context of how the debt came about in the first place. And as that isnt possible, I think the 
fairest solution is for it to be removed from her credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require Vanquis Bank Limited to:
Remove record of the debt from Ms As credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman