DRN-2858180
The complaint
Mr G complains that his personal data was compromised, and that Scalable Capital Limited 
gave him unclear information and has not recognised the distress and inconvenience this 
has caused him. 
What happened
Scalable Capital were the victims of a cyber-attack. Mr G was no longer a customer, but 
Scalable Capital had kept his information in its records. It contacted Mr G to tell him that his 
data had been accessed and it provided him with information about how to check whether 
his data had been used.
Mr G complained that he was given confusing information and wasted a lot of time because 
of Scalable Capitals error. 
Scalable Capital apologised that the incident had happened and said it had done everything 
it could reasonably be expected to do to help Mr G. It did not agree to pay him 
compensation.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
Scalable Capital gave Mr G the information he needed to understand what had happened 
and that it provided him with a year of credit to access a service to allow him to monitor any 
changes to his credit file which might indicate his data had been used. He noted the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) was satisfied that no further action was required, 
but that Mr G was free to raise his concerns with the ICO.
Mr G did not agree with our investigators conclusions. He said, in summary, that:
Scalable Capital should not have allowed this to happen.
He had to spend a lot of time trying to get the information about what had happened.
Scalable Capital kept his data after he was no longer a customer. 
This has been very inconvenient and distressing for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that I have come to the same conclusions as our investigator for the 
following reasons:
This service isnt the industry regulator. That means we dont set the rules for financial 
businesses or police the industry to make sure those rules are followed. And we dont have 
the power to fine or punish businesses. These are all issues dealt with by the regulator. The 
regulator of the financial services industry is the Financial Conduct Authority, who authorised 
Scalable Capital to provide the share account to Mr G. Separately the ICO regulates 
compliance to data protection laws in the UK. It has already investigated the data breach 
and what steps 
Scalable Capital took after the incident. It decided no regulatory action was required. 
My role is not to duplicate what investigations the ICO has undertaken but, instead, to 
consider Mr Gs individual dispute and reach an outcome which I think is fair and reasonable 
in the particular circumstances.
Although Mr G isnt a customer anymore, Scalable Capital is required to keep certain 
records about him for a period of time after he closed his portfolio, as set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys rulebook. So I cant say Scalable Capital did anything wrong by 
continuing to keep information about Mr G after he was no longer its customer.
Scalable Capital contacted Mr G within a short period of time after it became aware that 
Mr Gs data had been compromised due to a cyber-attack. It set out what had happened, 
what the likely consequences were, what steps it had taken following the breach, and what 
action it recommended Mr G take. It followed this up a few days later giving more detailed 
information about what it was doing, and the service that it would pay for to allow Mr G to 
monitor his credit file. It also provided contact details if Mr G wanted more guidance. I think, 
in the circumstances, it treated Mr G fairly and reasonably.
I accept Mr G was distressed about the data breach. And I can see that is reflected in his 
emails to Scalable Capital. But I find Scalable Capital did all that I would expect it to do to 
reassure and support Mr G.
I also accept Mr G had to spend time setting up the monitoring service and time 
communicating with that service and with Scalable Capital. Unfortunately, cyber-attacks do 
happen. And, when an incident happens, its inevitable that the individuals whose data has 
been compromised will have to spend some time considering the information theyve been 
given and taking steps to monitor if their data is used. I wouldnt expect a business to 
compensate a consumer for this time, unless the business didnt provide enough information 
and support to help its consumers. I cant conclude that Scalable Capital didnt give Mr G the 
information he needed, or the on-going support, to minimise the inconvenience he suffered.
For these reasons, I dont find that Scalable Capital is obliged to compensate Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman