DRN-4199571
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by Sterling Trust Professional Ltd (STP) to transfer 
the benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice 
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr B is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr B.
What happened
Mr B held deferred benefits in the BSPS from a period of employment between 1989 and 
2013. 
In March 2016, Mr Bs former employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB pension scheme) 
from the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding 
their preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Bs former employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
The RAA was signed and confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out 
shortly after. Updated transfer valuations were then provided by the BSPS trustees to 
qualifying members, reflecting the improved funding position  with the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of Mr Bs pension being £532,859.75. 
Mr B approached STP in September 2017, for advice about his deferred pension. 
STP completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Bs circumstances and objectives. 
It said he was 46, in good health, employed, separated from his partner and had two 
dependent children. His income was recorded as exceeding his outgoings. And in addition to 
the benefits he held in the BSPS, Mr B was noted as being a member of his new employers 
pension scheme. 
STP said Mr B was interested in transferring away from the BSPS for greater flexibility and 
to have control of the death benefits the pension provided. STP said Mr B hoped to retire at 
age 55. 
STP also carried out an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be lowest 
medium or four on a scale of one to ten, with one being lowest risk and ten highest. This 
assessment said the target portfolio for a lowest medium risk profile investor had an 
estimated annual growth rate of 1.59%.
In October 2017 members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
On 17 November 2017, STP advised Mr B to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and 
use the services of a discretionary fund manager (DFM) to manage his investments, at an 
ongoing cost. The suitability report, setting out the reasons for this recommendation, said 
Mr B would like to retire at age 55 and would want to access tax-free cash at that point. It 
said he liked the idea of having flexibility to vary his income. And he wanted to ensure his 
pension would pass to his children. STP said, in its opinion the rates of return that Mr B 
would need to achieve to replace the benefits he would be guaranteed under the BSPS2 or 
the PPF at age 65, the critical yields, were achievable and sustainable. And it advised him to 
transfer, predominantly because these returns were achievable. 
I understand Mr B accepted STPs advice and transferred his pension benefits in line with its 
recommendation.
Mr B complained to STP in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. STP didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said it thought the advice was suitable. 
Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
considered it and said he thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the critical 
yield to match the BSPS2 benefits at age 65 was likely to be achieved. And he also noted 
that STP said Mr B had wanted to retire early, but it hadnt produced an analysis of the 
critical yields for that scenario. And these were likely to be higher. 
The Investigator didnt think that STP had done enough to show that Mr B needed flexibility 
to meet his objectives. And he also considered, given Mr B was some way from retirement, 
that any plans he mightve discussed were unlikely to have been finalised. He also didnt 
think the alternative death benefits offered by a SIPP meant a transfer was in Mr Bs best 
interests. And so, he recommended that STP compensate Mr B for any losses caused by the 
unsuitable advice and pay him £250 for the upset and worry hed been caused.
Mr B didnt provide any objections to the Investigators findings but noted that his 
circumstances had recently changed, and he was now married.
STP didnt agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint. It said it wasnt 
required to guarantee that the transfer would be in Mr B best interests. Instead, the adviser 
was simply required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable for him. STP 
said the Investigator had used a significant degree of hindsight, which it thought was 
unreasonable and that he had placed too much weight on the critical yield. STP added that it 
still believed that the advice was suitable, and it said Mr B had made an informed decision to 
proceed with the transfer, which the Investigator hadnt considered.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
I've set out below some of the key pieces of the rules and regulations that applied at the time 
of the advice. This is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time but provides useful context for my assessment of STP's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
STP says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr B. I agree that under COBS, STP was required to take reasonable steps 
to ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr B was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). But it 
was also required, under COBS 2.1.1R to ensure it acted in accordance with his best 
interests. And, as Ive mentioned above, additional regulations and guidance apply to 
advising on transferring out of DB schemes. These say that the starting assumption for a 
transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that STP should only have considered 
recommending a transfer out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
was in Mr Bs best interests (COBS 19.1.6G). And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why. 
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that STP was required to carry out by the 
regulator, said that the critical yield to match the full pension Mr B would have been 
entitled to under the BSPS2 at age 65 was 5.17%. To match the benefits the PPF 
wouldve provided from age 65 the critical yield was said to be between 3.97% and 
4.35%. 
Even though STP said Mr B was interested in potentially retiring early, around age 
55, it didnt calculate the critical yields required to match the benefits the BSPS2 or 
PPF wouldve provided at early retirement. And despite also saying in the suitability 
report that Mr B would look to access lump sums from his pension at retirement, it 
also didnt calculate the critical yield to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension 
the BSPS2 would provide, either at age 65 or for early retirement. I think this is a 
failing on STPs part. These calculations couldve been undertaken. And without this, 
Mr B wasnt provided with complete information. So, he wasnt in a fully informed 
position. Nevertheless, Ive thought about the analysis that was completed.
STP has said the Investigator placed too much reliance on an analysis of the critical 
yield. However, the regulator required STP to calculate this and consider the cost of 
the guarantees being given up. So, I do think an analysis of the critical yield is a 
relevant consideration here. And STP said in its recommendation that the reason it was advising Mr B to transfer his benefits was predominantly based on the fact that 
we believe the critical yield of 5.17% per annum is likely to be an achievable and 
sustainable return. So, despite what STP has since argued, this was clearly a key 
reason for its advice at the time.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 
as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 
2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. The 
relevant discount rate at the time for 22 years to retirement  applicable if Mr B 
retired at age 65  was 4.5%. I think its also worth noting the discount rate for 
retirement at age 55 was 4%.
There would be little point in Mr B giving up the guarantees available to him through 
his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme given the additional risk this involved. By transferring Mr B would have to 
pay annual fees and charges for the personal pension, which would reduce any gains 
the funds made. Those are not charges he would have had to pay if he didnt 
transfer. And even if the critical yield was achieved consistently year on year, it would 
only enable him to replicate what was being given up.
Ive thought about the discount rates, Mr Bs lowest medium attitude to risk and the 
regulators low and medium standard projection rates at the time of 2% and 5% 
respectively. And Ive also considered the information in the risk assessment STP 
produced, which said the estimated potential annual growth for a portfolio matching 
Mr Bs risk profile was 1.59%. I note that STP referred to past performance of the 
DFM and pension being recommended. But as it will know, past performance is no 
guarantee for future performance and so I consider the discount rates and the 
regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term 
rather than projecting historic returns forward. Having considered all of this, I think 
there was limited scope for Mr B to improve on the benefits the PPF wouldve offered 
from age 65 and, if there was an extended period of poor performance or his 
investments suffered losses, he could well have been being worse off. And I think he 
was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than the benefits the 
BSPS2 wouldve provided. So, I dont agree that the critical yield of 5.17% was likely 
to be achievable and sustainable, or that a transfer was in his best interests, based 
on this yield.
I also think, if retiring earlier than the normal scheme retirement age was a genuine 
objective, Mr B was even more likely to be worse off. That is because the critical yield 
at a younger age was likely to be higher given benefits would have to be paid for 
longer and the investment horizon to retirement was shorter. 
STP said Mr B was interested in flexibility and wanted to retire early, with age 55 
being mentioned. But STPs role wasnt that of an order taker or wish fulfilment. It 
was to give Mr B objective advice about what was in his interests. And as Ive 
explained it failed to undertake any analysis of the benefits that Mr B couldve 
obtained under the BSPS2 or the PPF if retiring early  which was an option he had. 
And I also think there is insufficient evidence of analysis having been done to support 
that Mr B needed to transfer in order to meet his objectives.
STP suggested in the suitability report Mr B would want to access lump sums at retirement. But there was no purpose that would require access to tax-free cash 
recorded.
There is a suggestion in the fact-find that Mr B thought he might need an income of 
£30,000 per year in retirement. But I cant see that this was broken down, analysed 
or challenged at all. Based on the benefits the BSPS2 and PPF were projected to 
provide at age 65, and the fact if Mr B took them early actuarial reductions might 
apply, they appear unlikely on their own to have been enough to meet this level of 
income. But I also cant see that there was anything that supports the pension fund 
would be able to sustainably meet that income requirement following a transfer, if 
that objective was genuine.
In response to the Investigators opinion, STP said we didnt account for the fact that 
Mr B was building pension benefits with his new employer. But I cant see that STP 
analysed the other pension benefits Mr B was accruing either. I havent seen 
evidence of anything having been recorded about the value of this pension or what it 
would be projected to provide at retirement. Nor does STP seem to have considered 
whether a combination of these other benefits Mr B was accruing and the guaranteed 
benefits hed have been entitled to if he remained in his DB scheme, wouldve 
enabled him to meet his apparent objectives.
In any event though, Mr B was only 46 at the time of the advice  some time from 
actually retiring. While he may have indicated in discussion with STP that he aspired 
to retire early, I dont think any thoughts he mightve had on this were finalised or that 
his needs were likely to be known with any certainty. I think, when asked, most 
people would say they would like to retire early. But Mr Bs circumstances, objectives 
or aims couldve changed over the years that followed. And ultimately, I think it was 
too soon for an irreversible decision to transfer out of his DB scheme to be 
considered in his best interests. Particularly when he had the choice of joining the 
BSPS2, which wouldve meant he retained the option to transfer out at a later date if 
his circumstances required it.
STP said Mr B wanted control of the death benefits his pension would provide. And a 
SIPP would offer lump sum death benefits, that could potentially be passed to his 
children. But Mr B was still relatively young and in good health, so there was no 
reason to believe he wouldnt be reliant on his pension to meet his own needs in 
retirement  which is a pensions primary purpose, not to provide a legacy to the 
holders estate. His circumstances also couldve changed, meaning the death 
benefits the existing scheme provided  a spouses pension - couldve still become 
useful. And indeed, he has confirmed this has occurred. 
Also, while the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential 
lump sum, the amount remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to 
be different. It would be subject to market risks and fluctuations and would be 
reduced by any income Mr B took during his lifetime. So, the pension may not have 
provided the legacy Mr B mightve thought it would. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer meant it was 
in Mr Bs best interests. And ultimately STP should not have encouraged Mr B to 
prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension over 
his security in retirement.
I cant see that Mr B had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his 
pension funds on his own. And the recommendation seems to have been based on a 
DFM managing it on his behalf  at additional annual cost. And although Mr B mayve had concerns about what was happening with his 
deferred benefits, I dont think this meant a transfer was in his best interest. There 
had been a number of key announcements that all pointed toward the BSPS2 being 
established. Which was expected to provide better benefits than the PPF and still 
gave Mr B the option to transfer closer to retirement. And STPs recommendation 
looked at the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided So, based on what had 
happened to that point, I think the relevant parties, were confident the BSPS2 would 
go ahead. But even if this hadnt happened, the PPF still provided Mr B with a 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing his benefits early. So, entering the 
PPF was not as concerning as Mr B mightve thought at the time.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Bs best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension.
STP says that Mr B made an informed decision to transfer and that he wrote a handwritten 
letter confirming he wanted to proceed. But the letter which Mr B sent doesnt reference why 
he wanted to transfer and rather just says he wants to go ahead having read STPs 
recommendation  so was sent after hed already been advised to transfer. So, while I can 
see that STP did give information about some of the risks involved in a transfer, when it 
made its recommendation, ultimately it advised Mr B to transfer. I think he relied on that 
advice. And I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr B wouldve insisted on 
transferring, against advice by STP, a professional adviser whose expertise he had sought 
out, to remain in the DB scheme.
As a result, Im upholding this complaint as I think the advice Mr B received from STP was 
unsuitable.
STP recommended that Mr B use a DFM to manage his pension funds. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable, it follows that 
I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Mr B should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the DFM would not have 
had the opportunity to manage his funds if suitable advice had been given.
While early retirement was referenced in the advice, as Ive explained, I think Mr Bs plans 
were unconfirmed. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the 
reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF. And by opting into 
the BSPS2, Mr B wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was 
also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think, had he received suitable advice not 
to transfer, Mr B wouldve opted into the BSPS2  which Im satisfied was an option for him.
Our Investigator recommended that STP make a payment for the distress caused to Mr B. 
Mr B received advice from STP in November 2017. He first complained about that advice in 
2022, after speaking to his professional representative. I havent seen anything that 
suggests the advice caused him ongoing distress during that period as the first indication he 
potentially had any concerns about the advice seems to have been when he first discussed 
matters with his representative. Nor can I see hes been caused any significant 
inconvenience in that time. And indeed, his representative has brought his complaint for him, 
so the impact of having to make a complaint  which I wouldnt usually recommend 
compensation for anyway  has also been minimal. 
Nevertheless, I do accept Mr B may potentially have been worried to find that the advice 
might not have been suitable for him, particularly given the circumstances under which he 
first asked for this advice, when there was a lot of uncertainty regarding the pension scheme. 
As Mr Bs BSPS benefits were likely to be important to his longer-term financial planning, I think finding out about this potential issue has likely caused him some concern. Which 
wouldn't have occurred but for the advice that is the subject of this complaint. So, in the 
circumstances, I think the recommended award of £250 is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for STP to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given.
STP must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
STP should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr B and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what STP based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr B has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, STP should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his SIPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts STPs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, STP may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, STP should pay Mr B £250 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require Sterling Trust Professional Ltd to carry out the steps 
outlined in the putting things right section of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman