DRN-3609353
The complaint
Mr A complains ITI Capital Limited (ITI Capital) didnt set up or administer his account 
properly and delayed its transfer, causing him stress and lost investment opportunities.
What happened
Mr A approached a new provider to request a transfer from ITI Capital in September 2020. 
He says he did so because ITI Capital had failed to transfer his cash and shareholdings from 
a holding account to his ITI Capital trading account in a timely manner. 
ITI Capital had sent an email to Mr A in September 2020 acknowledging the cash that was 
due to his account. His shareholdings did reach his ITI Capital trading account in October, 
but his cash wasnt showing on either his trading account or his holding account. By this 
point Mr As new provider had asked ITI Capital to transfer out Mr As account holdings.
Mr A says that as a result of his cash disappearing from his account, he was unable to buy 
shares with it. He says this also meant he didnt sell existing shareholdings he wouldve like 
to sell and replace with better shareholdings, in case the cash from their sale disappeared as 
well. So Mr A says he lost out on profitable trades he couldve made. 
ITI Capital replied to Mr As complaint in December 2020. The transfer out had not yet been 
carried out. ITI Capital apologised for the service and for the time transfers were taking - and 
offered Mr A £150 to settle his complaint. Mr A rejected the offer. 
Mr A says his shares were transferred to his new provider later in December 2020, but not 
his cash. It wasnt until the end of March 2021 that ITI Capital paid to Mr As new provider 
the large bulk of his cash. What it paid then was what it acknowledged in September 2020 
was due to Mr A. Mr A says the cash reached his new provider in April 2021. 
In April 2022 ITI Capital offered to increase its £150 offer to £350 for the inconvenience or 
distress caused to Mr A by its failings. But Mr A rejected this and referred us back to what he 
had said about investment opportunities hed missed due to his cash disappearing from his 
ITI Capital account. Also he calculated that the income distributions paid by his holdings 
during the time ITI Capital held them meant ITI Capital ought to have paid a further £95 to 
his new provider. Later he sent a screenshot from December 2021 that showed a value of 
£37 still on his account at that point. He said this left ITI Capital owing him £58 of the £95. 
Also he said the sum on his account in December 2021 showed that the transfer out of his 
account still wasnt complete at that point  and so hadnt been completed in April 2021.
Our investigator asked ITI Capital for evidence to show the transfer out had been completed, 
including a closing statement  and invited ITI Capital to comment on the screenshot Mr A 
had sent and the amount Mr A had calculated was due. ITI Capital didnt answer. Our 
investigator then issued their opinion on the complaint. 
In brief, our investigator thought Mr As claim for losses arising from trades he had wanted to 
make but which ITI Capitals failings had prevented him carrying out, shouldnt be supported 
without clear evidence of specific trades he had planned to carry out. Also our investigator 
thought Mr A could have traded anyway and bought new holdings by selling existing 
holdings or contacting ITI Capital about the cash that had disappeared from his account. 
But our investigator wasnt satisfied that what ITI Capital had sent us proved Mr A wasnt 
due the £95 hed mentioned or properly evidenced the status of the transfer. Our investigator 
also thought ITI Capital had failed to complete Mr As transfer in a timely manner. As for the 
£350 compensation ITI Capital had offered, our investigator thought ITI Capital should pay 
Mr A more than this if - as the evidence suggested - Mr As cash was transferred later than 
December 2020.
ITI Capital didnt reply or send anything new in response to our investigators opinion. Mr A 
did reply and maintained that he could not invest cash that wasnt appearing on his account, 
so he missed out on investment opportunities. Also he pointed out that he had taken steps to 
chase ITI Capital for his cash, but without success. He referred to September 2020 email 
exchanges with ITI Capital in which ITI Capital had promised to arrange to credit to him his 
cash  but the sums it had promised there werent paid until March 2021.
Mr A also said that what hed received from ITI Capital hadnt detailed the amounts of and 
dates on which ITI Capital had received the various income distributions for his account. He 
hadnt had a closing statement either. Also Mr A said redress is due for what was severe 
stress caused by ITI Capitals failings and the time these failings wasted.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived for similar reasons at broadly the same conclusions as our 
investigator.
Without clear evidence of trades Mr A contemplated but didnt carry out due to ITI Capitals 
failings, I cant identify a financial loss arising from those trades or say those trades would 
have improved his situation. I say this bearing in mind that trading can bring losses as well 
as gains. Mr A hasnt given us any detail of any particular share sales or purchases he 
planned but was prevented by ITI Capital from making. So Ive nothing to show that he 
missed out on particular profits due to being unable to carry out such trades. I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances to award redress for such lost profits.
Also theres no suggestion Mr A attempted to make particular trades with ITI Capital. I know 
his cash wasnt showing on his account. But I dont agree that this means ITI Capital ought 
to bear responsibility for gains Mr A didnt make or losses he didnt avoid as a result of not 
trading his existing holdings or taking steps to use his cash to buy new holdings. ITI Capital 
acknowledged in September 2020 the large cash sum due on Mr As account. If Mr A had 
contacted ITI Capital about using this cash to fund trades, ITI Capital may have been able to 
process those trades like our investigator suggested.
I cant say for sure whether or not that would have been the case, given that Mr A did not, 
from what Ive seen, contact ITI Capital with a view to making any particular trades during 
the time his cash wasnt showing his account. But overall, having thought carefully about 
what Mr A has said about his missing cash, it doesnt alter my view that it wouldnt be fair to award redress for lost profits on missed investment opportunities  given the absence of 
evidence of any particular trades or profits that were missed. 
That said, it is apparent ITI Capital took too long to deal with and transfer out Mr As account. 
The internal transfer needed to set up his ITI Capital trading account before that was never 
done properly, given that his cash balance didnt appear there. Also it was difficult for Mr A to 
contact ITI Capital throughout. When he did make contact, he didnt get much practical help. 
For example, despite ITI Capitals September 2020 acknowledgment of the cash it needed to 
credit to Mr As account, this didnt happen. The bulk of Mr As cash wasnt transferred until 
March 2021. ITI Capital also hasnt commented on our investigators suggestion that it pay 
Mr A more than £350 because of how long it took to transfer Mr As cash.
With all this in mind, I share the investigators view that ITI Capital should pay Mr A more for 
the inconvenience and stress its failings caused. ITI Capital should pay Mr A £450 for this. 
Also ITI Capital hasnt provided anything to show me Mr A is mistaken about being due £58 
more from income distributions received by ITI Capital. As Ive had nothing from ITI Capital 
to persuade me this isnt due or to suggest that Mr A should not be awarded this sum  and 
bearing in mind the information we have shared with ITI Capital from Mr A about this, I find 
ITI Capital should also pay Mr A this £58. 
So I uphold Mr As complaint to the extent Ive explained and for the reasons Ive given.
Putting things right
Ive found ITI Capital Limited at fault, so ITI Capital Limited should put things right. To put 
things right and compensate Mr A, ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr A £450 for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused Mr A and pay Mr A £58 as compensation for unpaid income.
If ITI Capital Limited doesnt pay Mr A the sums above within one month of receiving from us 
notification of Mr As acceptance of my decision, ITI Capital Limited should also pay Mr A 
simple interest on the sums at the rate of 8% per year from the date of my decision until the 
date ITI Capital Limited pays my award.
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint. ITI Capital Limited must put things right by doing what Ive said 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman