DRN-2317335
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Covea Insurance plc trading as Provident Insurance unfairly applied an 
exclusion and contribution costs on her motor insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs Ls car was vandalised and the catalytic converter stolen. When she made a claim on 
her policy, Covea said she would have to pay the excess on the policy and contribute 50% of 
the costs towards a new catalytic converter.
Mrs L was unhappy with this as she didnt feel Covea had evidenced what costs were 
involved, and she didnt think the policy excess should apply. Covea investigated Mrs Ls 
complaint but said that due to the age of the catalytic converter, if it was replaced with a new 
one, this would be classed as betterment. It referred Mrs L to a term of the policy which said 
it could ask her to pay part of the repair costs.
Our investigator considered the complaint and upheld it. She said Covea hadnt applied the 
term fairly to the claim, and she recommended that it cover the full costs of the catalytic 
converter, subject to the policy excess and the remaining policy terms.
Mrs L agreed with this recommendation but Covea didnt. It said that by replacing the 
catalytic converter with a new one, the lifespan of that part had significantly increased. 
Covea says the performance of the car would very much improve with this new part, so 
Mrs L is liable to contribute to the costs under policy terms. As Covea disagreed with our 
investigators view of the complaint, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for accidental or malicious damage and Covea accepted this was 
a valid claim. The dispute concerns whether Mrs L should make a payment towards the cost.
The term Covea relies on is under Section 1a, loss of or damage to your car if your car can 
be repaired, and says: If the repairs improve the condition of your car, we can ask you to 
pay part of the repair cost.
Covea doesnt define what it means by condition of the car. Nor does the term explain when 
Covea might ask for a payment or how much it would ask the policyholder to pay. I dont 
think it would be clear to Mrs L from the policy term how this might apply in practice. So Ive 
thought about how the replacement of a catalytic convertor would affect the car and in what 
circumstances it might be fair to ask for a payment.
At the time of the theft, the car had done around 71,000 miles. Covea says a catalytic 
converter has a lifespan of around 100,000 miles and will last roughly 10 years.  Mrs Ls car 
is around seven years old, and she has a yearly mileage of 8,500 miles on her insurance 
policy. So, if the catalytic convertor acted in line with whats to be expected, it could be said it 
had around 30,000 miles left on it, or around four years, given how many miles Mrs L does in 
a year. In my opinion, those figures show that the catalytic convertor still had a lot of use left 
in it.
Covea says that by replacing the part, the lifespan of this new part has significantly 
increased, and it considers this to amount to betterment. The term betterment refers to 
situations where an insurer considers that repairing or replacing something will leave the 
customer better off, which isnt the intention of the policy. I appreciate the catalytic converter 
may be in a better condition. But I havent seen that any other options were available. Covea 
needs to provide an effective and lasting repair  and for that to be achieved, a new part 
would need to be fitted. So, I dont consider Covea had an alternative but to replace the 
catalytic converter to settle the claim. Even if that did improve the condition of the catalytic 
converter, all its essentially doing is putting Mrs L back in the position she was in previously 
 namely with a working car. In my judgment, it hasnt made any substantial improvement to 
the overall condition of the car.  
When settling the claim, Covea should apply the policy terms fairly. In the circumstances of 
this case, I dont think its fair or reasonable that Mrs L should be liable for any costs for this 
part.
A policy excess is applicable for the claim Mrs L made. So Im satisfied that Covea can 
charge an excess on this accepted claim, but should not ask for a payment towards the cost 
of the catalytic converter.
Putting things right
To put things right, Covea needs to pay the full cost of Mrs Ls claim without a contribution to 
the cost of the catalytic converter, but subject to any applicable policy excess and remaining 
terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint and direct Covea Insurance plc trading as 
Provident Insurance to pay the full cost of Mrs Ls claim as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021
. 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman