DRN-2820075
The complaint
Mr A complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) will not refund a 
transaction which he disputes.
AESEL say it thinks the transaction was authorised.  
What happened
The transaction which Mr A complained about was carried out on 7th February 2020 on his 
AESEL charge card. It was a payment for £5760 made to a club  PL.  Mr A accepted being 
in PL at the time  and in fact accepted he had authorised a payment  but he says the club 
was dark and he thought he was authorising a payment for £576  not £5760.
Mr A spoke to AESEL on the following morning to report that his charge card was missing. 
During that call, he said the representative went through the most recent transactions but did 
not mention this particular one.  Satisfied that the transactions he was told about were his, 
Mr A simply asked for the card to be replaced and the previous one cancelled.  It was only 
when he checked his account later that he said he noticed the disputed payment.
When Mr A contacted AESEL about the transaction, it asked for any evidence he may have 
to support his claim.  But Mr A did not respond  so AESEL said it couldnt carry out a 
chargeback on the transaction for him and closed the claim.
Mr A then made a formal complaint.  Amongst other comments he made, he said there had 
been an agreement between him and AESEL that it would block any large transactions 
going through his account during the evenings and weekends.
In its final response to Mr As complaint, AESEL said it had acted fairly in how it dealt with 
the chargeback request.  As it had no evidence to present to the merchants, it had closed 
the claim.  It said it had attempted to contact Mr A on several occasions but was unable to 
speak to him.
With regards the agreement Mr A said he had, AESEL found no evidence of this on its 
systems. It also told him that it was not possible for individual blocks to be placed on 
accounts based on the value of the transaction.
So, Mr A came to this service where our investigator looked into matters for him.
Our investigator thought AESEL could have done more for Mr A.  She thought the 
transaction was unusual for him and so AESEL should have picked up on it and alerted him.  
She also thought AESEL ought to have continued with the chargeback despite not having 
heard from Mr A. 
Mr A agreed with her decision but AESEL did not.  It said its fraud detection system could 
not pick up on individual transactions merely because of the value  and in any event, it 
argued Mr A had made similarly high value transactions in the past so the disputed 
transaction could not be considered to be unusual.
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the customers account.  
And I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
My first consideration is whether or not this transaction was authorised.  The PSRs say that 
if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr A authorised this payment, then 
AESEL is entitled to hold him liable for it.
My view on this differs from that of the investigator.  However, we both arrive at the same 
outcome.  Ill explain why.
Authority in this context has two element  authentication and consent.  I am satisfied from 
what I have seen and heard that this payment was authenticated.  Mr A accepts he used his 
card and PIN to make a payment.  But AESEL need to show Mr A also consented in order to 
hold him liable.  Authentication on its own is not enough.
Consent, in this context, is not the same as informed consent.  In other words, Mr A doesnt 
need to know the full extent of the transaction he is performing in order to have consented.  
If he is using the agreed form and procedure for making the payment, then he has given 
consent to the execution of the payment.
So, contrary to the investigators view, I think Mr A did authorise the payment.
However, I must then consider whether there was anything more AESEL could have done in 
order to protect Mr As account that night  and I think there was.
Ive explained above about the starting position in law and banks being expected to 
process payments which have been authorised by their customers. However, in 
exceptional cases, I may ask whether the bank should have identified any unusual or out 
of character transactions that could involve fraud or financial abuse. There is industry 
guidance on this in the BSI Code of Practice on Protecting Customers from Financial 
harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse. AESEL has not signed up to the Code, but it 
remains persuasive evidence of what banks can do to protect customers, especially 
vulnerable customers.
Ive considered Mr As statements and Ive also considered AESELs submissions that the 
transaction was not out of character.  In support, it refers me to two transactions of a similar 
value  one made in 2015 and the other in 2016.  It submits that these transactions show 
that the transaction made in February 2020 was not out of character.
Im afraid I dont agree with AESEL.  I dont think it is fair or reasonable to rely on two 
transactions which, at the relevant time were four and five years old.I think good industry practice suggests that there are circumstances where a bank should 
fairly and reasonably take additional steps before processing a payment  and I think this 
case is such an example.  A block on the payment followed by a text message or call to Mr A 
would have alerted him to the amount of the payment.  If AESEL had done this, I think its 
likely Mr A would have declined to continue with the transaction.
So, I think it is fair and reasonable for AESEL to put things right for Mr A.  I note Mr A had 
made the payment of £576 to AESEL because this is what he said he had agreed to pay.  
The remining balance still appears on his account.  I think its fair to ask AESEL to credit Mr 
As account with the amount left outstanding.  I think that is the sum of £5184.
Putting things right
American Express Services Europe Limited must credit Mr As account with £5184, along 
with any fees or interest charged on that amount.  Mr As account should be returned to the 
position it would have been in had the disputed transaction not be made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman