DRN-2134874
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt allow her son to be added to her bank 
account as a third party.
What happened
Mrs P is represented in this complaint by her son, Mr P. 
Mrs P wanted her son, Mr P to have third party authority on her bank account with Barclays. 
They went into a branch together to set this up. But the Barclays representative told them it 
couldnt accept Mr Ps bank statement as proof of address because hed crossed out the 
amounts. 
Mr P didnt feel it was necessary for him to share his financial information with Barclays and 
he made a complaint. Barclays told Mr P it couldnt accept redacted documents because of 
regulations its required to follow.
Mrs P was unhappy that Barclays wouldnt agree to register her son for third party access to 
her account. So, she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ps concerns but didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. He didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. Its required to follow strict 
processes to assess customers details before providing access to its services. This meant it 
couldnt accept a redacted document as an original form of proof. Barclays had also 
provided Mr P with alternative documents it could accept.
Mrs P disagreed with our investigators view. So, her complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulations require Barclays to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
Barclays says it cant accept documents that have been altered because of legal and 
regulatory due diligence requirements. 
Its referred to the Money Laundering Regulations 2007 which says:
Customer due diligence measures means  
(a)Identifying the customer and verifying the customers identity on the basis of 
documents, data or information obtained from a reliable and independent source;
Mrs P thinks Barclays should have accepted Mr Ps bank statement because it showed his 
name, address and account details. Hed only crossed out the amounts. 
I appreciate Mrs P doesnt think it was necessary for Barclays to see information about      
Mr Ps finances. But anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive 
obligations on regulated financial businesses (such as banks) to have suitable systems in 
place for customer identification.
With this in mind, I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to insist on seeing unaltered 
documentation. 
I dont doubt it was frustrating and inconvenient for Mrs P to have to wait to see a Barclays 
adviser only to be told that her son didnt have the necessary documentation to be given 
third party authority to her account. But Mr P says he was informed that Barclays wouldnt 
accept documents that had been tampered with when he spoke to a member of staff the day 
before they visited the branch. He was also told he could provide an alternative proof of 
address, such as a utility bill, if he didnt want to provide his bank statements. Mr P says he 
would have also redacted information on a utility bill. 
I understand that Mrs P disagrees with Barclays processes. But its not the role of this 
service to tell a business to change these. I can only consider if Barclays has acted fairly and 
reasonably. And having considered everything, I think it has.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman