DRN-3129692
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mrs and Mr N payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr N disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The PPI was set out on the application form, and I can see that, on Mrs and Mr Ns form, 
theres a tick in the yes box. So I think theyd have understood they had a choice about 
taking PPI. 
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr N, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mrs and Mr Ns particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of 
Mrs and Mr Ns situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mrs and Mr N were eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to 
make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs and Mr N received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mrs and Mr N would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put 
Mrs and Mr N in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mrs and Mr N couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And they could have cancelled the 
policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely 
Mrs and Mr N would have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mrs and Mr N to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard now to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. If a 
seller doesnt give as full information as they should, it doesnt automatically mean this was a 
mis-sale. Instead, I look at whether its likely better information would have made a 
difference.  But in Mrs and Mr Ns situation I dont think its likely to have: they had said they 
wanted PPI and, as Ive explained above, it was likely to have been useful for them. And I 
cant see any particular information about the PPI thats likely to have made them change 
their mind about taking it. 
So, overall, I dont have strong enough evidence to say the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman