DRN-1492226
The complaint
Mr G complains that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) unfairly declined a claim for 
storm damage under his home insurance policy. 
Mr G is being represented by a member of his family. To keep things simple, I will refer to 
both Mr G and his family member as Mr G, unless stated otherwise. 
What happened
Mr G said that a storm in March 2019 caused part of his roof to slip down into his garden and 
leave a hole in the front and rear part of the roof. So he contacted CIS to make a claim. 
CIS sent a contractor a few days later to assess the damage. The contractor reported that 
the claim shouldnt be met by CIS because they didnt think that the storm was the main 
cause of the damage. So CIS declined the claim and said that the storm conditions only 
highlighted issues with the roof, and wasnt the main cause of the damage. 
Mr G said he felt he was made to sign a document the contractor gave him that said no 
storm was present. Mr G also said CISs contractor didnt go up onto the roof to assess the 
damage. 
Mr G decided to get a second opinion from his own contractor. His own contractor said that 
the damage to the roof was caused by a windstorm and that the damage could either be 
repaired or replaced by CIS. 
Mr G paid for the roof to be repaired in the meantime due to personal circumstances. He 
thinks CIS should reimburse the costs he incurred in having the repairs carried out. He also 
thinks it should compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused. So he raised a 
complaint. 
CIS looked into Mr Gs complaint but maintained its position that the roof showed signs of 
wear and tear, and the main cause of the damage wasnt due to a one-off storm event. It 
said that the high winds only highlighted the issues with the materials that had naturally 
deteriorated over time. 
Mr G remained unhappy, and so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into everything but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
accepted a storm took place around the time Mr G said the damage had occurred, but she 
wasnt persuaded that the main cause of the damage was due to the storm. So she said she 
didnt think CIS had acted unfairly by declining the claim. As no internal damage occurred, 
this wasnt something our investigator needed to consider further.
CIS accepted our investigators view, but Mr G didnt. He said his own contractor carried out 
a more thorough investigation, and had said that the main cause of damage was the storm. 
He also said that the roof had been maintained and therefore Mr G remains of the view that 
CIS should reimburse the costs he incurred to have the repair completed, plus 
compensation. As no resolution could be met, the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
this will disappoint Mr G, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Mr Gs policy doesnt specifically define a storm, but theres no dispute that the policy 
provides cover for him in the event damage is caused by a storm. 
These are common complaints and so this service does have an established approach to 
considering whether an insurer has treated a customer fairly and reasonably. The starting 
point to considering this is asking three questions: 
1. Were storm conditions present on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened? 
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is yes then we would say a claim should succeed. But, if 
the answer to any of these questions is no, then we usually wouldnt expect such a claim to 
succeed. 
Theres no dispute present here over questions one and two. Both Mr G and CIS accept a 
storm took place around the date Mr G made a claim, and that the damage is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. I therefore wont need to comment on those two questions. 
 
What is in dispute, is whether the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage to Mr 
Gs property. 
There are common exceptions within Mr Gs policy  which Ive seen in most insurance 
policies  on page 59 under General Exceptions that apply to the whole policy. It says that 
CIS will not insure any loss or damage arising from: wear and tear or corrosion, 
deterioration or similar causes. So whether an insured peril occurred or not, if the underlying 
issue is any of the exceptions above, CIS may decide not to pay a claim. 
There are conflicting reports present here about what the main cause of the damage was. Mr 
Gs own contractor says that the damage was caused by the storm, whereas CIS gives the 
reason being due to deterioration and wear and tear over time. However, Mr G thinks his 
own contractors report is more reliable because the report was completed after the 
contractor went up onto the roof to inspect the damage. But I dont agree this has any 
bearing on the credibility or reliability of the report from the contractor employed by CIS. Im 
satisfied a fair assessment took place based on the photographs Ive seen, and the audio 
recordings that match the report which Mr G agrees are accurate. 
Its not uncommon for an insurer to decide on a claim based on the first inspection. Ive 
carefully considered the photographs of the roof whilst looking at the reports from both Mr G 
and CIS. And dont think its unreasonable for CIS to rely on the contractors opinion that the 
roof was showing signs of deterioration and wear and tear. CIS also said theres evidence of 
sagging which it said is caused by a deterioration of material over time.
Mr Gs report says that the damage was caused by the storm. Whilst I dont doubt that the 
storm did have some impact, Im not in agreement that the report evidences that the damage caused is new damage and unrelated to deterioration over time  rather that the strong 
winds have highlighted issues with the roof that are due to wear and tear. 
My understanding is that the roof was approximately 80 years old. This was confirmed within 
an audio recording taken at the time of the inspection. Mr Gs own contractor said that the 
roofs life expectancy would be roughly considered to be 100 years. The contractor also said 
the roof was solid and had been maintained in parts. I dont doubt this and understand that 
cement was used to maintain the roof and to keep it strong to prevent tiles from falling off. 
But the report provided by CIS says that this cement was also showing signs of deterioration 
which I dont dispute based on the photographs Ive seen.
I also note the amount of moss growth evident within the photographs Ive seen. CISs report 
said this causes severe damage to a roof because it absorbs moisture and causes damage 
to a roof over time. Im minded to agree that this has also somewhat impacted the strength 
and durability of the roof during the storm, based on what Ive seen and carefully considered. 
Therefore, on balance I dont think CIS has acted unreasonably here by relying on the 
engineers report to decline the claim. I havent been persuaded by Mr G that the storm was 
the main cause of the damage to his roof. I think its more likely than not that the storm only 
highlighted issues with the roof that had occurred over time. This is something the policy 
doesnt provide cover for, as cited above, which can be found in the general exceptions part 
of the policy on page 59.
Mr G has said that CIS caused him to experience a level of distress and inconvenience as a 
result of declining the claim, and the way it handled things. Ive looked into the way things 
were handled and dont agree CIS acted unreasonably or caused any unnecessary delays. 
And in any event, I dont think its acted unreasonably by declining the claim for the reasons 
set out above, and so I wont be asking it to do anything else here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman