DRN-3612582
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund money 
she lost to a scam.
What happened
In March 2021, Ms D got a call from someone who said they worked for a company  Ill 
refer to the company as A. A is a genuine online retailer. 
The caller said that a payment was due to be debited from Ms Ds Halifax account. Ms D 
says she doesnt have an account with A although she has used them for purchases in the 
past, so was worried about why they would be taking a payment. The caller told her that her 
Halifax account had been hacked and insisted that Ms D transfer £4,800 out of her account, 
saying they would transfer the funds back in half an hour. An hour later when the money 
hadnt been returned, Ms D realised shed been the victim of a scam.
Ms D reported the scam to Halifax and asked them to recover her funds. Halifax investigated 
Ms Ds fraud claim and agreed to refund her £2,400. They were also able to recover £2.61 
from the beneficiary account. Halifax declined to refund the remaining £2,400, saying there 
were inconsistencies in what Ms D told them had happened. Halifax say that initially Ms D 
told them that she made the payment of £4,800 but later said the scammers accessed her 
phone after she downloaded software and made the payment themselves. Halifax claimed 
that Ms D had been grossly negligent if she had given them access to her account.
Ms D wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Ms Ds complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator explained 
that she thought it was most likely that Ms D had made the payment, rather than the 
fraudsters making the payment for her. Because of this, she considered whether Ms D was 
entitled to a refund under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code). The investigator felt the £2,400 refund already offered by Halifax was fair, 
as she didnt believe Ms D had a reasonable basis to believe the payment request was 
genuine. 
Ms D disagreed with the investigators opinion saying:
She didnt authorise the payment. The fraudsters moved the money after she 
downloaded software onto her phone.
While she didnt have an account with A, she had made purchases previously  
which make her believe the call was genuine.
The fraudsters knew information about her including: her date of birth, details of 
payments from her Halifax account and her last purchase with A  which convinced 
her they were genuine.
We havent understood the pressure she was under or the overwhelming shock she 
experienced in realising her money had gone.
She doesnt think reaching an answer based on the balance of probabilities is fair.
As Ms D disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Ms D make the payment?
Ms D says that she didnt make the payment and that the fraudster made the payment after 
she downloaded software which gave them access to her phone. However, Im persuaded 
that its more likely than not that Ms D did make the payment  which means the payment 
was authorised.
 
I say this because during two separate calls with Halifax (when she reported the scam) Ms D 
specifically said she made the payment. In the first call she said that the moment she clicked 
to send the money she realised this shouldnt have happened, and later referred to them 
giving her the sort code and account number for the payment. In the second call she told 
Halifax that the fraudsters got her to transfer £4,800 out of her Halifax account. The Halifax 
staff member specifically confirmed with Ms D that the fraudsters didnt make the payment 
themselves, they instructed you (Ms D) to make the payment  Ms D answered yes.
Ms D has raised a point about it being unfair that we reach an answer based on the balance 
of probabilities. However, where there is conflicting information, I have to reach an answer 
based on what information we do have and what I think is most likely to have happened in 
that situation. Although in this case, the phone calls that Ms D had with Halifax, which Ive 
listened to, provide extremely persuasive evidence that Ms D most likely made the payment.
 
Its important to note that even if Ms D hadnt made the payment herself and someone had 
accessed her account and made the payment without her authorisation, its unlikely we 
would reach a different answer. If the payment wasnt made by her it wouldnt be cover by 
the CRM Code, and its unlikely we would recommend she be refunded.
But, having decided that its most likely Ms D did make the payment and therefore her 
payment is covered by the CRM Code, Ive considered whether she is entitled to a refund 
under the Code.
Is Ms D entitled a refund under the CRM Code?
Halifax are a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax says one of those 
exceptions apply in this case.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.* there are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code, but they dont apply to this case.
Did Ms D have a reasonable basis for belief?
Ive carefully considered the reasons Ms D says she was persuaded that the call had come 
from the genuine firm rather than fraudsters impersonating the firm. Having done so, Im not 
satisfied that she did have a reasonable basis for belief, and Ill explain why. 
Ms D says a phone call was received with an automated message saying she had an 
account with A and a payment of £79.99 was due to come out of her bank account. The 
message asked her to press 1 if she agreed or 2 if she disagreed. Ms D says her mother 
took this call and pressed two and was put through to someone who was supposed to work 
for A. Ms D says her mother handed the phone over to her and the caller told her there were 
issues with her account with A.
Ms D says she doesnt have an account with A, although she has used them in the past for 
purchases. Ms D says she told the caller that but was then told that a significant sum of 
money was going to be taken from her Halifax account that day, but theyd put a stop on it. 
Ms D says she was told to download software onto her phone  which she did. She then 
went into her Halifax mobile banking app, but it didnt show any money coming out of her 
account or pending against her balance. Ms D says the £4,800 payment was supposed to be 
a test to ensure no money would come out of her Halifax account, with the caller saying they 
would send the money back to her. So, a payment of £4,800 was made and the caller told 
Ms D they would call her back in half an hour. 
Its unclear how the £79.99 payment related to Ms D sending a payment of £4,800, or why 
Ms D would be dealing with A if her Halifax account had been hacked. If they were referring 
to an account with A being hacked, then it wouldnt make sense to deal with an employee of 
A to secure her Halifax account rather than directly with Halifax. 
Also, it doesnt appear that Ms D did any checks before making the payment, despite not 
having an account with A and there not being any payments showing as pending on her 
Halifax account. And its not clear why Ms D would need to transfer the funds out of her 
Halifax account, to only have them transferred back to her a short time later. 
Overall, there were a number of red flags for Ms D, as set out above. I appreciate that the 
caller had some of her personal information and knew details of her bank account, but I dont 
think it was reasonable for her to proceed without completing any checks to make sure the 
caller was genuine  based on the number of red flags that were present. On that basis, Im 
not satisfied that Ms D had a reason basis for belief in making the payment.
The offer Halifax have made to refund £2,400
Halifax have accepted that they didnt do enough to prevent the payment Ms D made and 
refunded her half of the payment being £2,400. They were also able to recover £2.61 from 
the beneficiary bank account, which theyve paid to Ms D.
In the circumstances, as Im not satisfied that Ms D had a reasonable basis for believing the 
person she was talking to was genuine, I wont be asking Halifax to refund Ms D any more 
as I consider their offer of a 50% refund to be fair.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman