DRN-3314870
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they says were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around June 2018, Mr and Mrs S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs S decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a ten-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In June 2020 the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs S to enter into the contract with P. 
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding due to income through the Feed-In Tariff (FIT) 
and savings from using some of the electricity generated instead of buying this from 
their electricity supplier. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs S do not recall being shown the quotation during the sales meeting. They 
were provided with a copy of the quotation a few days later, however they happy to 
rely on the verbal statements provided to them and had already agreed to purchase 
the panels by that point.
The quote shows the system would not become self-funding until between year 13 
and 14, which is after ten-year loan agreement would end. Mr and Mrs S would be 
expected to contribute to the monthly cost of the loan for the whole term of the loan 
agreement. 
Mr and Mrs S were told by the sales agent that the system would be self-funding and 
they understood this to mean that by a combination of the FIT income generated by 
the panels and the savings they would make on their electricity bills would be 
sufficient to cover the monthly cost of the loan. 
Mr and Mrs S were not aware that they would have to make contributions to the 
monthly loan repayment and had they been made aware of the contents of the 
quotation, they would not have agreed to the purchase on the basis that it would take 
so long for them to reap any benefit from the system.
At the time of sale, Mr and Mrs Ss electricity bill was approximately £130 per month; 
since having the solar panel system installed, their bills have progressively increased 
each year and at present they are paying out approximately £195 per month for their 
electricity, excluding the monthly cost of the finance agreement. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs S could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs S and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs Ss recollection of the sale.
The representative continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central 
part of the sales process with P when Mr and Mrs S agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those 
made by Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did 
form a central part of the sales process when Mr and Mrs S agreed to enter into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The quotation showed the total cost of the system was £9,826.95 and that Mr and Mrs S 
paid a £100 deposit. However, the credit agreement showed the system cost £10,158.00. 
After the £100 deposit the amount borrowed was £10,058.00 to be repaid by 120 monthly 
repayments of £121.43. The total amount payable is shown on the loan agreement as 
£14,671.60. Mr and Mrs S do not recall why the price changed, but I can see they signed the 
loan agreement and havent expressed a concern about this, so I think it was likely they 
were satisfied with this at the time. 
FIT payments
Mr and Mrs S have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and savings. Ive considered the quote that 
was provided by P and considered whether this supports what Mr and Mrs S has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs S could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £175.58.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs S could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £313.02 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs S the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £738.21. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for [60/120/180] months this 
is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows 
the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £117.50 (slightly less than on the loan 
agreement, which differed due to the slight increase in the price and that Mr and Mrs S 
deferred their first payment for two months, increasing the overall interest payable). 
For each year of the ten-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. 
It then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly illustrative loan 
repayment of £117.50, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that they were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs S that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments throughout the entirety of the loan term.
However, I do accept that Mr and Mrs S was told by P that the system would be self-funding 
over a duration of time. 
The quote included the following graph showing the returns over 25 years. This clearly 
shows that the annual savings and income would be less than the annual loan repayment 
throughout the ten-year term of the loan. And that it would not be until the 14th year that Mr 
and Mrs S would recoup that deficit and begin to make a profit.
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by the end of the 14th year the overall benefits 
that Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable 
under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs S that the system would pay for 
itself by the end of year 14, as supported by the graph and table above. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the 
contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive would usually consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs S. But in this case the system did not perform to the 
expected level. Mr and Mrs S complained about this to P in 2019. It identified and fixed a 
problem with the system and compensation was agreed with Mr and Mrs S in full and final 
settlement of the matter. 
So, there is no scope for me to consider any compensation in respect of the initial 
underperformance of the system  as that matter has already been settled. 
The issue was resolved, and the performance was then guaranteed for a further 12 months 
as part of the settlement. Im not aware of any further performance issues since that time, so 
assume that the system is performing in line with expectations. 
Naturally, the initial underperformance will have affected the FIT income and savings 
achieved. But, again, compensation has already been paid in respect of that. 
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2018 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
this explains, along with the initial underperformance, why they havent been receiving the 
financial returns they may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy 
prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the 
energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs S 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs S entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs S 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman