DRN-3783797
The complaint
Mr L complains through his representative of irresponsible lending by Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday).
What happened
Everyday provided Mr L with the following loans:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
instalmentWhen repaid
Loan 1 17/5/2019 £4,000 48 months £287.65 Settled by 
loan 2
Loan 2 20/7/2020 £6,068.72 48 months £368.78 Still active
The first loan was for debt consolidation, the second loan was used for two purposes. Firstly, 
to repay the balance on the first loan and secondly to consolidate Mr Ls credit card and his 
overdraft. He complained to Everyday that the loans were pushing him into further debt.
Everyday said that it carried out proportionate eligibility checks. These included obtaining 
and reviewing up to two months bank statements from the customer's primary bank 
account, conducting a credit search, and carrying out a job check. To assess living expenses 
it used ONS (Office for National Statistics) data. It said that both loans provided were 
affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our adjudicator said that taking everything 
into consideration, he thought that there was a serious risk Mr L wouldnt have been able to 
meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again (which he did do after loan 1, 
for example). For those reasons, he didnt think the loans reflected responsible lending.
Everyday didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr L 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr L would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ls ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr L undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
loan 1
The credit report obtained by Everyday after Mr Ls application doesnt wholly reflect Mr Ls 
credit commitments, which did include a number of payday loans. I have used the figures set 
out in Everydays list of Mr Ls accounts. It assessed that he was spending around £961 a 
month on credit commitments. It said the loan was to be used to repay £430.53 of those 
commitments. With the loan instalment added to his remaining credit commitments, this 
would still have meant him spending about 46% of his income (assessed at £1791.56 a 
month) solely on his credit commitments. My view is that that figure was too high and was a 
potential indicator of unaffordability.
Everyday assessed that Mr L would have had a disposable monthly income of around £216 
after paying the loan instalment and consolidating the other loans. Whilst Everyday didnt 
arrange to pay those loans off directly, the evidence from the later credit report would suggest that Mr L did so.
Ive noted that whilst he had a small overdraft on his primary bank account, Mr L had an 
overdraft on another current account of just over its limit of £1500. The loan wouldnt have 
been enough to pay that off with the other loans. Also for the credit card which had a 
balance on it of £3,178 Everyday assessed payment of 3%of the balance. Our approach is 
to assess such a payment at 5% to allow for the card to be paid off within a reasonable time. 
This is a difference of £66. 
Taking those factors into account, I dont think the loan was affordable, so I dont think 
Everyday made a fair lending decision.
loan 2
Mr L approached Everyday for another loan only just over a year later. I understand that the 
purpose of the first loan was to remove Mr Ls dependence on payday loans. However he 
had taken out a new payday loan, and was now paying £250 a month through standing order 
for a private loan.
Whilst Everyday said this loan was to consolidate his credit card and overdraft (which was 
now £422 for his primary account and £487 for the second account), its affordability 
assessment only took into account the old loan payment and the payday loan. It assessed 
his credit commitments at £678.33. Taking into account the old loan repayment and the £49 
for the payday loan, but adding in the new loan instalment, would have given him monthly 
credit commitments of £ about £710. As a proportion of his income of £1,824 this was about 
39%. That was lower than before but, in my view, still high.
Everyday assessed Mr L would have a monthly disposable income of about £357 after 
paying the new loan instalment. The full amount of the loan was issued to Mr L, though 
Everyday could have paid off his credit card balance and overdraft(s)if that was the intention 
of the loan. But its not just pounds and pence affordability we look at when considering if a 
loan is sustainable.
I question the use of this new loan. Mr L effectively had to extend his old loan by a further 
four years, and even assuming he would then go on to use the balance to repay his credit 
card and/or his overdrafts the loan interest rate would have been a lot higher.  And he clearly 
hadnt been able to remove his dependence on loans, 
Taking all the circumstances into account I dont think this loan was affordable so I dont 
think Everyday made a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
Mr L has had the capital payment in respect of the loans, so its fair that he should 
repay this. So far as the loans are concerned, I think Everyday should refund all interest 
and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans. 
Treat any payments made by Mr L as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Mr L has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr L
If Everyday has sold the outstanding debt to a third-party it should do what it can to 
buy it back - if it cant, it cant deduct any outstanding balance from the redress and 
it then needs to work with the third-party to bring about the steps above.
Remove any adverse information about the loans from Mr Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited  trading as Everyday Loans to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman