DRN-3964342
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr M are unhappy with the delays caused by Target Servicing Limiteds errors 
when they attempted to redeem part of their Armed Forces Home Ownership Scheme 
(AFHOS) loan.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr M have raised various concerns that they had with Target and have said its 
taken them four years to be able to redeem part of their AFHOS loan. They made the 
following comments about Target:
They lost their personal information, displaying an inability to store or process the 
data they held accurately, fairly and professionally.
They failed and refused to demonstrate an understanding of the terms of the AFHOS 
scheme, as Mrs H and Mr M were repeatedly provided with incorrect information and 
Target breached the terms of the AFHOS scheme deliberately and without good 
reason.
Staff were incapable of understanding the scheme or its implications, such as 
delaying the redemption of the equity stake resulting in an increase to the amount. 
Mrs H and Mr M eventually had to pay to redeem the loan. Target failed to take any 
action to stop a financial loss  including Mrs H and Mr M having to go on the 
standard variable rate (SVR).
The staff they interacted with demonstrated a level of incompetency not fit to be 
entrusted with dealing with the financial product that Target had a legal responsibility 
for administering.
They used the wrong valuation thereby requested a higher redemption amount and 
took no action or responsibility to correct this. They also failed to issue the 
redemption statement in a timely manner.
They demanded £200 in redemption fees as opposed to the £65 indicated under the 
terms of the scheme and refused Mrs H and Mr M the right to borrow further funds for 
property maintenance.
Target mis-led the Homes and Communities Agency (HCA) in their investigation into 
their complaint regarding the date of their original contract.
Refused to log and investigate their complaints or resolve their problems despite 
being made aware of them over a period of four years. Target treated them unfairly 
with no regard to their personal consequences and the damage that the 
incompetence of their staff has caused.
Were unable to locate Mrs H and Mr Ms account details throughout and eventually 
caused Mrs H mental strain and almost led to her abandoning her desire to redeem 
the loan.
Mrs H and Mr M bought their property in November 2011 and took out an AFHOS loan to 
part fund their deposit. 
AFHOS loans are government funded shared equity loans. The lender is the government 
agency Homes England (formally HCA), and the scheme is administered by Target. 
The terms of the AFHOS state the mortgage provider holds first charge over the property, 
with the HCA holding second charge for the percentage of the property they own. No interest 
is payable on the loan however, the scheme retained the percentage of the property they 
owned until it was fully redeemed or reduced and therefore the scheme is entitled to any 
increase in the property valuation. 
The terms say that in order to reduce the loan, Mrs H and Mr M must obtain permission from 
the loan administrator to re-mortgage or borrow additional funds. This is to be requested by 
completing a form along with a payment of £65 each time further borrowing is requested. 
The terms also state that Mrs H and Mr M could reduce the equity at any time during the 
lifetime of the mortgage but the minimum they could reduce it by at any time would be 5%.
Each time Mrs H and Mr M wanted to reduce HCAs equity stake, the property needed to be 
valued by a Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) surveyor and the valuation should 
be no more than three months old. If any home improvements had been made to the 
property, then two valuations were required. The first valuation would show the valuation of 
the property with the improvements made, and the second would show the value of the 
property if the improvements hadnt been made. The redemption valuation would be based 
on the valuation without the home improvements.
Mrs H and Mr M purchased their property in 2011 for £237,500 with HCA owning a 27% 
stake in it. Mrs H and Mr M remortgaged in July 2014 and paid off 5% of the loan so this 
reduced HCAs share of the property from 27% to 22%. 
In May 2016, Mrs H and Mr M decided to reduce the HCA stake in their property by a further 
5% by completing a remortgage. The administrator of the scheme at that point had been 
Metropolitan. The administrators were unable to locate Mrs H and Mr Ms account. In 
November 2016, the administration of the loan was then transferred to Target. Mrs H and Mr 
M then initiated the part redemption process again with Target  instructing their 
intermediaries to explore a mortgage offer in order to redeem a further 5%.
Mrs H was advised at this point that as the loan had just been transferred to Target, that not 
all customer account details had been transferred to Target by Homes England. Target said 
they were not aware of what customer details they held until a customer contacted them. So 
Target put the onus on the customer to provide evidence that they had the loan with HCA.  It 
was up to Mrs H and Mr M to provide this evidence to Target, so they had the account 
details they needed. 
Target said they were unable to record any contact or correspondence sent by Mrs H and Mr 
M to their systems  so they were unable to keep an accurate audit trail of any contact 
made. Target said this was partly due to AFHOS accounts being manual and they had no 
formal process for manual accounts. 
Mrs H and Mr M said they contacted Target multiple times by phone and email, and they 
said that Target didnt know anything about the AFHOS scheme. They said Target continued 
to give them incorrect information and the whole interaction caused them nothing but stress. 
Mrs H and Mr M complained to HCA who told them to complete a valuation at a cost of 
£350. This valuation was £265,000 without home improvements so meant that HCAs equity 
stake was 22% - a value of £58,300.
By this time, Mrs H said that her financial situation had changed for the worse and so was 
unable to show adequate income in order to borrow the additional amount they needed to 
redeem the loan in full. They said they had £38,000 in savings so decided to proceed with a 
part redemption  but still no clear guidance was given to them on how to proceed. Mrs H and Mr M said it got to the end of 2017 where they felt they were not further forward 
with their redemption and were getting no response from Target or HCA. Mrs H said this 
caused her health to deteriorate so she stopped the process.
Mrs H started the process again in December 2019, and by this point, Target had managed 
to locate a manual account for them. But the account hadnt been set up on Targets system 
causing Mrs H and Mr M difficulty and frustration whenever they contacted Target. 
Once the account details had been identified, Mrs H initiated the full redemption process in 
June 2020. She said there was a one-month delay in dealing with her request at which point 
Target then issued a redemption quote for 27% based on the equity share information 
provided by Homes England. 
Mrs H explained to Target that this was incorrect as they had already reduced their equity 
previously by 5% in 2014. But they were told that because Target didnt have any evidence 
of this, a request was sent to Homes England so they could confirm what the outstanding 
equity share was at the time. 
Target said they didnt receive confirmation that the remaining equity share was 22% until 
November 2020 and following this, completion then took place on 16 December 2020 and 
the loan was fully redeemed. 
Mrs H and Mr M were very unhappy with how things had been handled so they brought the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. 
The investigator looked into things and let Mrs H and Mr M know that we were not able to 
consider anything to do with the delays about the previous administrator. He said that any 
issues about Metropolitan would need to be directed to them. 
The investigator concluded that Target had caused Mrs H and Mr M some delays which 
caused them a great deal of stress.
He said that Target caused delays in issuing a redemption statement and had they have 
given their authority sooner, Mrs H and Mr M would have been able to prove their income 
and secure a mortgage to redeem their loan in full. But he didnt think that those delays 
alone meant they would be able to obtain a mortgage in order to redeem the loan in full as 
he couldnt be certain that this was the case due to Mrs Hs personal circumstances 
changing.
He also said that as Mrs H and Mr M didnt have an offer in place, it was difficult to 
determine any losses caused by Targets errors with regards to Mrs H and Mr M paying a 
higher rate of interest on the SVR.
However the investigator did think that Target should pay Mrs H and Mr M the difference 
between what they paid to redeem the loan in full based on the September 2020 valuation, 
against the one carried out in October 2017. This was based on the fact that Mrs H and Mr 
M had some savings which represented 14% equity and what they could have paid, so this 
difference across both valuations equated to £9,100. He also said that Target should refund 
the difference in the £200 administration fee against the £65 that should have been charged.
The investigator also thought that Target should refund the cost of the September 2020 
valuation plus £95 which is how much they paid to extend it. 
The investigator also acknowledged how difficult this situation had been for Mrs H and Mr M 
so he said that Target should pay them £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Target accepted what the investigator said. Mrs H and Mr M said they agreed with most of 
what the investigator had said but they still remained unhappy about a couple of things. 
They said they understood and agreed with most of what the investigator said. But the main 
point they thought was unfair was because they had to borrow an additional £9,100 that they should never had borrowed. So they would like Target to offer or cover the interest accrued 
on this additional amount.
Mrs H and Mr M also said the interest rates are now most likely to go up and they will end up 
paying more on the £9,100 borrowed and even with the compensation that has been 
awarded, they are still out of pocket. 
As Mrs H and Mr M disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to confirm that I do agree with the investigator that we cannot consider the 
delays caused in 2016 by the previous administrator, as Target are not responsible for this. 
So I will solely focus on the actions of Target  since they took over the loan.
Target took over the administration of Mrs H and Mr Ms loan in November 2016. Under the 
loan agreement, HCA as the lender had certain duties regarding the redemption of a loan. 
Target, as the regulated debt administrator, was performing those duties on HCAs behalf. 
They were clearly the party that should have corresponded with Mrs H and Mr M in relation 
to their redemption request. Its evident that Target didnt perform those duties on HCAs 
behalf in accordance with the terms of the loan agreement. So Target were responsible for 
those failures and consequences that followed from November 2016.
Having looked at everything, there have been various issues throughout the years that have 
caused Mrs H and Mr M a considerable amount of stress and upset. It doesnt appear that 
Target fully understood the AFHOS scheme and they had issues in trying to locate Mrs H 
and Mr M due to their loan account being a manual one. 
Target have told us that they dont have any contact notes for Mrs H and Mr M prior to 2019 
so I have considered the detailed testimony from Mrs H and Mr M regarding the delays 
before this point.
Target agreed with what the investigator said and agreed to put things right for Mrs H and Mr 
M. So I dont think there is any dispute here that things could have been better. Mrs H and 
Mr M have provided several emails that they sent to Target from 2016 to 2020 about trying 
to redeem their loan and how difficult they found it.
Since the complaint has been passed to me to decide, I focused on what Mrs H and Mr M 
still remained unhappy about as I noted that Target did agree with the recommendation that 
the investigator made. 
Target agreed to refund the September 2020 valuation fee and the additional amount of £95 
that Mrs H and Mr M paid to extend it. They agreed to refund the difference in the £65 
administration as noted in the terms and conditions, against the £200 that Mrs H and Mr M 
actually paid  adding 8% simple interest to both refunds.
Target also agreed to pay the difference in the September 2020 valuation of £330,000 
against the October 2017 valuation of £265,000  based on Mrs H and Mr M paying off 14% 
off the loan from their savings. This difference worked out to be £9,100. And finally, Target 
agreed to pay Mrs H and Mr M £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience they were caused. 
Having looked at everything in detail, I agree that Target need to put things right as 
concluded by the investigator  and as Target agreed, I wont be going into this in any further 
detail. 
Mrs H and Mr M still had concerns about the interest they were being charged on the 
£9,100. And I do understand the concerns they raised about this. They redeemed their mortgage in 2020 and ended up having to borrow an additional £9,100 than they needed 
because Target based the valuation on September 2020.
In these situations, where money has been borrowed, we would consider asking for interest 
to be added on. Usually, where money has been borrowed, its the mortgage interest rate 
that would be applied. As Mrs H and Mr M borrowed an additional £9,100 than they needed 
to, interest would be worked out based on the mortgage interest rate they are being charged 
on their mortgage. 
I wrote to Target and Mrs H and Mr M separately to let them know my thoughts on the 
matter. I explained that I thought we should be awarding interest on the amount of £9,100 
because Mrs H and Mr M ended up borrowing £9,100 extra when they redeemed their loan 
with Target. So I thought it was unfair that they were being charged interest on this additional 
amount when they shouldnt have needed to borrow this additional amount in the first place. 
So I explained that I didnt think that interest should be awarded for the entire period from 
2017 to 2020, however I did think that because Mrs H and Mr M had to borrow £9,100 more 
when they redeemed the loan, interest should be awarded on this amount from the date the 
loan was redeemed in 2020  until the date of settlement. 
Mrs H and Mr M responded to me and explained they were still concerned that they would 
be paying interest on the entire term of the new mortgage and still felt it was a bit unfair. I let 
Mrs H and Mr M know that we have already asked Target to refund £9,100 which they have 
agreed to. So it would be up to Mrs H and Mr M as to what they chose to do with that money. 
But we are asking Target to refund this amount because Mrs H and Mr M borrowed too 
much in the first place. So while its up to Mrs H and Mr M to decide what to do with this 
refund, essentially, they can pay it off their new mortgage to bring the balance down to what 
it should have been in the first place. This would mean that interest wouldnt be charged for 
the remainder of the term of the mortgage. I explained that this is what would put Mrs H and 
Mr M back in the position they should have been in  had things not gone wrong. And the 
interest I am asking Target to refund compensates them for not having that money at the 
time. I said it would be unfair of me to ask Target to pay interest for the remainder of the 
term when Mrs H and Mr M could pay this money off the mortgage to prevent any further 
interest. 
Mrs H and Mr M have since told us that they are already overpaying on their mortgage each 
month as they want to try and reduce it as much as possible before their fixed rate expires. 
So they said if they pay off the £9,100 in one go, as well as the additional amounts they are 
currently overpaying, they will go over the 10% that their lender allows them to overpay by 
each year. Mrs H and Mr M explained that they will be charged if they do this and feel its 
unfair because of what has happened. 
I considered this and thought that to keep things simple and to avoid any ongoing 
calculations, Target should apply 8% simple interest to the amount of £9,100 instead of the 
mortgage interest rate. Mrs H and Mr M already said they would be happy with this amount 
as it would take into account any penalties they may be charged. 
I contacted Target to explain that Id normally say it should be the mortgage interest rate that 
they should use to calculate the interest, but Mrs H and Mr M could end up being charged 
more and the early repayment charge could be more or less than the 8% so in order to keep 
things simple, I asked Target if they would agree to add 8% simple interest to the amount of 
£9,100 instead of working it out on the mortgage interest rate. 
Target responded and said they would accept the 8% being added to the redress figure. Mrs 
H and Mr M also responded and said they would be happy with this as it would take into 
account anything they may be charged if they overpay. 
Target said they wanted to make us aware that the redress approval for this case is pending 
additional investigations with the Homes and Communities agency surrounding their role in 
the issues faced by Mrs H and Mr M.I appreciate that Target have said they need this redress approved by Homes England, but 
were telling Target to put things right here and not Homes England. So they should continue 
with my direction as agreed. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Target Servicing Limited to:
Pay the difference between the amount that Mrs H and Mr M would have needed to 
pay to redeem 14% of the loan based on the property value of £330,000 on the 
September 2020 valuation, and 14% of the property value based on the October 
2017 valuation of £265,000  which equates to £9,100. Target to add 8% simple 
annual interest from the date the loan was redeemed in 2020 to the date of 
settlement
Target should also refund the cost of the September 2020 valuation, plus the £95 fee 
that Mrs H and Mr M had to pay to extend the valuation. Target should also refund 
the difference in the £65 administration fee stated in the terms and conditions against 
the £200 that Mrs H and Mr M were actually charged  adding 8% simple annual 
interest from the date Mrs H and Mr M paid these amounts to the date of the refunds
Pay Mrs H and Mr M £1500 for the distress and inconvenience that Targets delays 
caused them
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman