DRN-1117447
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bradford & Bingley Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably in how its dealt 
with his financial difficulties. He wants matters put right.
What happened
 Mr C had an interest only mortgage with Bradford & Bingley, and got into arrears. A court 
made a possession order to allow Bradford & Bingley to take his property, but eviction was 
suspended to let the parties try to resolve matters between themselves and clear the 
arrears. Mr C said that in January 2019, he agreed with Bradford & Bingley to pay his 
contractual monthly payment ("CMP") plus an extra £100 a month. He paid £271 as agreed 
that month. 
But Mr C said that the next two months, the amount Bradford & Bingley wanted him to pay 
was increased and no explanation was given. Mr C said this change caused the direct debit 
to fail and he hadn't made any payments since as Bradford & Bingley wouldn't accept his 
offer to pay £271 a month. He said that it was threatening to evict him.
Mr C complained to Bradford & Bingley. It said that under the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage, interest was calculated yearly, not monthly, and it was reviewed in December. 
This caused the CMP to change every February, and that was what had happened in Mr C's 
case. Bradford & Bingley noted that due to the arrears, Mr C's mortgage had been charged 
various fees and costs, and also it was subject to an increased interest rate due to changes 
in the standard variable rate; it said Mr C knew about this from his mortgage statement and 
the terms and conditions. It said that the agreement with Mr C was for him to pay the CMP 
and an extra £100 a month, not a fixed £271, and he hadn't done so, despite the letter telling 
him that the repayment plan would change if the CMP changed. Bradford & Bingley said it 
wasn't in Mr C's best interests, or its own, to allow the situation to continue and it had tried to 
assist.
Mr C complained to us. The investigator's view was that Bradford & Bingley wasn't at fault. 
She said that the January 2019 agreement was for Mr C to pay the CMP plus £100 a month, 
and he was warned that if the CMP changed, for example due to the annual review, the 
repayment amount would change in the agreement letter. The investigator noted that the 
direct debit failed repeatedly and thought it was fair for Bradford & Bingley to cancel it to 
avoid charging Mr C fees and to find out whether the direct debit was suitable. She also 
commented that Mr C should've called Bradford & Bingley to get a swifter answer about 
what was happening, and didn't think in the circumstances that it was unfair for the lender to 
seek to evict him due to the failure to pay as agreed.
Mr C disagreed. He said the investigator had relied on incorrect information. Mr C said that 
he should've been warned about the change to the CMP and disagreed with the 
investigator's view of what the repayment letter of January 2019 said. The investigator said 
that Mr C did agree to pay the CMP and £100 a month, so when the CMP changed, that was 
what Mr C had agreed to pay (with the extra money on top). She explained that this service 
couldn't interfere with court orders and as there was a possession order in place, Bradford & Bingley could seek eviction by applying to the court. Mr C said he should've received a 
change to direct debit notice, and he didn't.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders are required to treat those in financial difficulties fairly, which includes those in 
mortgage arrears. But treating someone fairly doesn't mean the lender can't take action to 
deal with the debt. Lenders are expected to take reasonable steps to work with a borrower to 
avoid eviction, and I can see from the evidence available to me that in Mr C's case, Bradford 
& Bingley (and the previous lender) considered his financial position and agreed a number of 
repayment plans with him over the years. This is fair.
It's the January 2019 repayment plan that's in dispute. It's clear from the notes made at the 
time and the repayment plan letter that it was agreed for Mr C to pay the CMP and an extra 
£100 a month after his full financial position was considered - it wasn't agreed that Mr C 
would pay a fixed £271 a month. The letter warned Mr C that the annual review might 
change the CMP and told him to contact Bradford & Bingley if this caused problems. Mr C 
didn't call the lender when the CMP changed, but sent letters, which appear not to be have 
reached it for weeks; Bradford & Bingley isn't responsible for the delivery of post. I 
appreciate that Mr C has health issues, but given the urgency and seriousness of the matter, 
and the fact that he was able to call this service, I think it's fair and reasonable for Bradford & 
Bingley to have expected a call if Mr C couldn't pay as agreed.
Mr C says that he wasn't warned about the change to CMP. But the annual review was 
known to him from the terms and conditions of the mortgage and previous changes. A letter 
was sent to him about the change to the CMP due to the annual review on 15 January 2019 
which told Mr C that it would increase to £309 (which meant he'd would have to pay this sum 
plus £100 from February) - this is a notice and post dates the repayment plan letter. I also 
have a copy of the direct debit change notice sent to Mr C at his correct address earlier in 
January 2019. Bradford & Bingley aren't responsible for the delivery of post, so if these 
letters didn't reach Mr C, that isn't its fault. But I'm satisfied that Mr C was sent sufficient 
notice of the changes to his direct debit.
Mr C didn't make any payments after January 2019. Bradford & Bingley was faced with a 
number of bounced direct debit payments and no explanation from Mr C. Lenders are 
required to stop trying to take such payments in these circumstances. And given the 
agreement reached was for Mr C to pay the CMP plus £100 a month, he was in breach of 
the repayment plan by failing to do so. I can't say Bradford & Bingley are at fault for 
cancelling the direct debit or expecting Mr C to pay as agreed.
 Mr C is unhappy that Bradford & Bingley are threatening to evict him. It has the benefit of a 
court order, which is something with which this service can't interfere. But given the arrears 
and the broken repayment plan, I can't say that it's unfair for Bradford & Bingley to decide to 
take eviction action. It has considered Mr C's financial position; I also note that the mortgage 
was due to end and be repaid in full by July 2019.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
27 May 2020.Claire Sharp
Ombudsman