DRN-2071152
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) mis-sold 
them a mortgage endowment policy.
What happened
In 1993 Mr and Mrs H were buying their first home. They took out a with profits mortgage 
endowment policy through L&G. They say they were told it would repay their mortgage and 
provide them with additional funds.
In 2003, Mr and Mrs H say they had received two letters telling them that the policy was 
unlikely to reach the target sum, so they surrendered it. In 2019 they made a complaint to 
L&G about the policy being mis-sold to them, through a representative.
Mr and Mrs H made a number of complaint points, including that their attitude to risk was not 
discussed, that they werent provided with any paperwork and that they wouldve taken a 
repayment mortgage if one had been offered. L&G didnt have full paperwork from the time 
of sale, but didnt uphold the complaint based on the paperwork it did hold and its knowledge 
of sales at that time. 
Mr and Mrs H, through their representative, brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold their complaint as she said there wasnt sufficient evidence to 
show L&G had done something wrong. Mr and Mrs H disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. They said they only held the mortgage for three to four years and by 
this time it was at a shortfall, so it wasnt going to repay the full amount. They said they didnt 
know it was linked to the stock exchange and the projected figures they were given were 
used to entice them to take the policy out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage endowment was taken out in 1993 and surrendered in April 2003  
so around ten years later. So the mortgage and endowment were in place for more than the 
three to four years they have stated. Mr and Mrs H also said to us, when they first brought 
their complaint, that they would not have taken any risk whatsoever in relation to the 
mortgage. And said they were not made aware it carried an element of risk. But then in 
response to our assessment they said that they believed the endowment was linked to more 
stable financial investments  suggesting they did know there was an element of risk. 
Mr and Mrs H also originally stated that they didnt receive any illustrations showing potential 
gains or losses in relation to the policy. However they have since stated that L&G used 
(positive) projected figures as an enticement to take out the endowment. So it does seem 
that their recollections of the sale have faded over time  which isnt unreasonable 
considering its been 27 years.
Due to the time thats passed L&G dont have full documentation from this sale. For me to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, I would have to be persuaded that it was more likely their 
version of events happened than what L&G has suggested. And so in this case, that L&G 
didnt comply to the requirements at the time of sale and mis-sold them this endowment. Ive 
weighed up the evidence L&G has been able to provide from the sale against the 
recollections Mr and Mrs H have provided to us.
The paperwork we do hold is a detailed eight page Personal Financial Analysis. From the 
information provided by Mr and Mrs H, it does seem this was completed with them and 
accurately reflects their personal situation in 1993. This document states that they have a 
balanced attitude to risk. It also states, under the life cover section, which mortgage they 
have chosen and says a range of different options were illustrated and discussed with them. 
Mr and Mrs H have signed this document  suggesting that at the time they were happy with 
the content of it and the recommendation provided. So it seems in 1993 they had a balanced 
attitude to risk  and the endowment they were sold doesnt seem unsuitable in relation to 
this attitude.
Mr and Mrs H have also made comments about the suitability of their endowment in relation 
to the general mis-selling of mortgage endowments. But I have to consider what L&G knew 
in 1993, and Mr and Mrs Hs situation at that time. I appreciate the industry wide issues that 
did impact mortgage endowments, however this doesnt automatically mean that this 
endowment was mis-sold. And we cant apply hindsight to the sale.
Based on the information recorded in 1993, I cant say this policy was unsuitable for Mr and 
Mrs H at that time. It appears their options were explained, based on whats recorded on the 
paperwork, and they have suggested they received some form of projections. And I cant 
safely rely on just their recollections of the sale, considering the inconsistencies in their 
complaint and how some of their points are in contrast to the point of sale paperwork we do 
hold. So, weighing up the evidence available, Im not persuaded that they were mis-sold 
their mortgage endowment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman