DRN-1978774
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) failed to make an 
international payment causing problems with his overseas bank and created stress and 
inconvenience to him.  
What happened
Mr K has premium bonds with NS&I and instructed them to make a transfer to his bank 
account in France. The payment request was acknowledged by NS&I, but the money never 
arrived into his bank account. Mr K had issued a cheque in the meantime, but this was 
rejected by his French bank due to lack of funds. Mr K had to make alternative arrangements 
to place funds into his account. As a result of the cheque being rejected,  Mr K was formally 
reprimanded and was told he couldnt issue cheques for 5 years. Mr K also incurred costs as 
a result of the error made by NS&I. 
Mr K contacted NS&I and was told that their clearing bank hadnt made the payment, 
additionally   he had to tell NS&I what action they needed to take to recall the payment. Mr K 
complained to NS&I seeking compensation for the stress and inconvenience this caused 
him.
NS&I accepted that a mistake had been made by their clearing bank who had failed to 
inform them that the payment hadnt been sent to Mr Ks account. As a result, they agreed to 
compensate Mr K for his inconvenience and stress and awarded him £250 plus costs 
incurred from his French bank. They also provided Mr K with a letter to give to his French 
bank, stating that Mr K was not responsible for the non-receipt of funds into his account and 
it was an error by the bank. 
Mr K wasnt happy with the compensation paid as he didnt feel it took into account the level 
of  stress and inconvenience, he had gone through. NS&I say the level of compensation paid 
was fair in the circumstances. Mr K then referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt that while NS&I were at fault, they had adequately compensated Mr K for the trouble and 
upset caused. Mr K wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for this to be 
referred to an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When considering Mr Ks complaint, I have looked at whether NS&I could have done more 
when they realised their mistake and if the level of compensation offered was fair and 
reasonable. 
I can see how frustrating and upsetting it would be for Mr K to be informed that a cheque he 
issued had been refused by his French bank, when he had made arrangements for funds to 
be sent to his bank account by NS&I and had received a confirmation that it had been sent. 
Mr K issued the cheque in good faith and NS&I have admitted that the error was of their 
making as their clearing bank failed to make the payment and didnt tell them this. Mr K says 
that he has received an official reprimand and warning and was told he couldnt issue 
cheques on his account for 5 years. I can see this would have been worrying and upsetting 
for Mr K who up until then had never had any similar problems in the past. 
Mr K feels his reputation has been damaged as a result of this and consequently the 
compensation paid to him of £250 plus costs isnt sufficient. It is clear that NS&I have made 
a mistake here and that isnt in doubt, but when considering this I have to be fair to both 
parties and I have considered whether either could have done more to have prevented this. 
NS&I have said their clearing bank who they used in the transaction failed to inform them 
that the payment hadnt been sent, but I cant see that is Mr Ks concern and when the 
problem was highlighted it seems that Mr K had to reinforce the fact that they needed to 
recall the international payment. 
To be fair to both parties here, I have considered whether Mr K could have done anything 
else before he issued the cheque. I understand Mr K  took steps to make sure a payment 
was made in good time into his bank account in France and although he received a 
confirmation from NS&I that the payment had been sent, there was still some degree of 
responsibility on Mr Ks  part to check with his French bank that these funds had arrived 
before he issued the cheque. This is especially relevant here, given the consequences of not 
doing so.  
To help put matters right NS& I also issued a To Whom it may concern letter for Mr K to 
explain, in essence, the error was theirs and not Mr Ks. Subsequently I am pleased to learn 
from Mr K he has had agreement from his bank in France that his position is regulated, and 
he can now issue cheques. Given this, I am satisfied that his standing with his French bank 
is back to where it was before this mistake happened. 
NS&I  say that the compensation  payment of £250 was fair and reasonable and Mr K 
doesnt agree, but this service isnt here to punish businesses but to ensure that they have 
acted fairly  in this case once they had realised an error had taken place.  I am satisfied 
that by compensating Mr K for the costs he incurred he hasnt suffered any financial 
disadvantage and the compensation payment made to him is fair and reasonable for the 
reasons I have already explained.
While Mr K will be disappointed with my decision, on balance, I wont be asking anymore of 
NS&I . 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020. 
Barry White
Ombudsman