DRN-3163274
The complaint
Ms C complains about a default entry recorded on her credit file by Lowell Financial Ltd.
What happened
Ms C had a catalogue shopping account with a business Ill call S. Ms C has told us there 
was a problem when trying to make a payment which led to her account being closed. S 
closed the account and recorded a default on Ms Cs credit file dated 14 September 2016. 
The debt was sold to Lowell on 16 September 2016. Lowell sent Ms C a Notice of 
Assignment to confirm the new arrangements. A firm of solicitors (B) acting on Lowells 
behalf contacted Ms C to discuss collections and potential legal action. 
Ms C has told us S removed the default from her credit file and has asked Lowell to remove 
its entry. In 2017 Ms C paid a partial settlement and Lowell marked the default as partially 
satisfied on her credit file. Ms C says she was told the default would be removed.
Ms C complained and Lowell issued a final response on 26 March 2021. Lowell didnt agree 
it had acted unfairly by continuing to record the default on Ms Cs credit file.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs complaint but thought Lowell had dealt with it 
fairly so didnt ask it to take further action. Ms C asked to appeal and explained she had 
never received a default notice from S about its intention to close her account. Ms C also 
said Lowell had unfairly applied fees and continued to record the wrong information on her 
credit file. As Ms C asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms C has concerns about the decision by S to close er account and record a 
default on their credit file. We consider complaints on an individual basis. That means, I can 
only look at Lowells actions in this case. I cant consider whether S treated Ms C fairly in this 
decision. 
So whilst I understand Ms C says the decision to close her account and record a default was 
unfair, those were actions taken by S. My decision will focus on Lowells actions after it 
acquired a debt in Ms Cs name. 
Lowell purchased the debt shortly after S closed it and reported a default. Lowell is required 
to send confirmation of the new arrangements and I can see it sent a Notice of Assignment 
to Ms C on that basis. Lowell has sent us a copy of the original credit agreement, as 
provided by S, along with a screen print that shows the date the account was defaulted. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied it acquired a debt in Ms Cs and that it had a 
legitimate reason to contact her about the outstanding balance. 
Lowell instructed B to begin legal action and Ms C has explained she made a payment in 
2017 on the basis the default would be removed from her credit file. But Lowell doesnt 
agree B made that promise. Where the circumstances of a complaint are disputed by the 
parties involved Ill base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is what I consider 
most likely to have occurred based on all the available information and evidence. 
Ms C has told us B agreed to remove the default entirely if she made a partial settlement in 
2017. But Lowell doesnt agree and has told us Bs contact notes say it agreed to mark the 
debt as partially satisfied if Ms C made a payment in 2017 which is what it did. Lowell also 
says it doesnt offer to remove defaults on the basis of a partial settlement. 
Whilst I understand my decision is likely to disappoint Ms C, I havent been persuaded 
Lowell or its solicitor agreed to remove the default after receiving a partial settlement. I think 
it would be very unusual for Lowell to agree to remove a default without being specifically 
instructed to do so by the original lender. And theres no evidence on file that S told Lowell to 
remove the default from Ms Cs credit file. 
When a consumer makes a payment to clear a defaulted debt in full the business is 
expected to mark is as settled. Where a partial settlement is accepted, the credit file is 
updated to show that. But repaying the outstanding balance doesnt oblige a business to 
delete the record of the default. Ultimately, thats whats happened in Ms Cs case. Im very 
sorry to disappoint Ms C but Im not telling Lowell to delete its entry. 
Lowell offered Ms C £150 for delays by B when responding to a request for her account to 
be reopened. I can see there was a delay and Im satisfied £150 fairly reflects the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Ms C. As a result, Im not increasing the award. 
Ms C has recently sent us a screen shot that shows the default date recorded by a credit 
reference agency was 2013, not 2017. But all the information Ive seen shows Lowell 
recorded the default date in 2017. Ms C may want to contact the credit reference agency to 
query the entry if she remains concerned. 
As Im satisfied Lowell has made an offer to settle Ms Cs complaint that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint because Lowell Financial Ltd has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman