DRN-2248987
The complaint
Mr S complains that Virgin Money plc refused to apply a pro rata refund to the annual credit 
card fee when he tried to close his account. 
What happened
Mr S opened a credit card with Virgin Money on 15 December 2018 and a £160 annual fee 
was applied to his account. 
In November 2019 Mr S called Virgin Money and asked about arrangements for closing his 
credit card account. 
On 16 December 2019 Virgin Money applied another £160 annual fee. Mr S continued to 
use the credit card facility.
In April 2020 Mr S contacted Virgin Money and asked about closing his credit card. Mr S was 
told that he wouldnt receive a partial refund of the annual fee, even if he closed the account 
part way through the year. Mr S complained to Virgin Money about its decision to decline his 
request for a pro rata refund of the annual fee. 
Virgin Money said Mr S would need to cancel his facility shortly before the anniversary in 
order to avoid paying a fee he wouldnt receive the benefit of. Virgin Money said that the fee 
had been applied in line with the credit agreement and its terms and conditions.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator didnt ask Virgin Money to do anything else. Mr S asked to appeal. 
Mr S recently told us the credit card account remained open and that it has continued to be 
used. Mr S has confirmed he has taken steps to close the account before the next annual 
fee becomes payable. 
In response to the investigator, Mr S said Virgin Moneys interpretation of the credit 
agreement and associated terms was unreasonable as it placed him in an unfair position 
whereby he could cancel his credit card at any time but wouldnt receive a pro rata refund for 
the element of the service he didnt use. Mr S pointed out the credit agreement and terms 
are silent on what happens in relation to the annual fee if the credit card is cancelled part 
way through the year. As Mr S asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money says that Mr S accepted the credit agreement and associated account terms 
and conditions when he opened his credit card facility on 15 December 2018. Virgin Money 
says the annual fee, and subsequent refusal to refund it on a pro rata basis, is in line with 
the credit agreement and associated terms and conditions. But Mr S says the credit 
agreement and terms dont specifically say that no refund would become due if the credit 
card was closed part way through a year. I take Mr S point but for me to uphold a complaint 
Id have to be satisfied that Virgin Moneys actions had led to a financial loss or that the 
application of its terms meant he was treated unfairly. Ive considered Mr S complaint on 
that basis. 
Mr S complained in April 2020 after he was told the annual fee wasnt subject to a pro rata 
refund if he closed the account. Mr S was told what Virgin Moneys position was and has 
advised that he took the decision to leave the account open, in part due to spending habits 
during the pandemic. Mr S has confirmed that he recently arranged for his account to be 
closed so he wont incur another annual fee. Mr S continued to use his credit card account. 
Whilst I note Mr S concerns about the credit agreement and terms, I dont think it would be 
fair to tell Virgin Money to refund an annual fee he has received the benefit of. Ultimately, 
Mr S paid the annual fee and has retained the credit card for the vast majority of the 
following year. Mr S recently said that he had experienced a financial loss because, if Virgin 
Money had agreed to a pro rata refund, he wouldve received about half the annual fee back. 
But, the facts of the case are that after Virgin Money confirmed its position to Mr S he 
continued to use the credit card facility. As Mr S has received the service the annual fee 
covered, Im not persuaded it would be fair to tell Virgin Money to refund it. 
I cant tell a business to change the way it operates or the terms and conditions it uses. Our 
service looks at the individual circumstances of a complaint so see whether a consumer has 
lost out financially and whether they have been treated fairly. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but as I havent found he has lost out financially or been treated 
unfairly, Im not telling Virgin Money to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman