DRN-2037848
The complaint
Mrs D complains a car she acquired with Blue Motor Finance (BMF) was of unsatisfactory 
quality. She asks to reject it.
What happened
On 5 June 2019, Mrs D took out a hire purchase agreement to acquire a used car. At the 
point of sale, it was around 7 years old and had travelled 83,800 miles.
Mrs D says she was sold the car on the understanding it had a full-service history but after 
purchasing the car and despite chasing up the service book, the dealership didnt provide it. 
On 9 September 2019, Mrs D contacted BMF to advise them the fly-wheel was faulty. She 
contacted them to explain the service history was missing and advised them she had been 
mis-sold the car.
On 22 October 2019, she spoke to BMF again. She said the fault was still present. BMF 
wanted to send an independent inspector out to diagnose this. Mrs D declined this offer and 
said she wanted to reject the car. 
In its final response dated 25 November 2019, BMF didnt uphold her complaint.
Mrs D remained very unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She pointed to 
numerous emails between herself and the dealership, whom she felt had provided her with 
extremely poor service. Amongst her complaints were issues such as; it had failed to register 
the car she part exchanged in a timely manner, resulting in her receiving penalty notices that 
were not her responsibility. It hadnt provided her with job notes regarding the repairs it said 
it had carried out. The courtesy car it provided was in her opinion unroadworthy and leaked 
oil on her drive and it denied the agreements she felt it had made with her prior to the sale. 
She also had sight of the MOT issued in April 2019, prior to purchase where she says a fault 
was clearly identified that hadnt been rectified before she purchased the car.
An investigator looked into things for Mrs D. He agreed there had been an inducement (a 
full-service history) for Mrs D to enter into an agreement that subsequently hadnt transpired 
and then there had been several faults with the car. Although there had been attempted 
repairs, Mrs D remained dissatisfied and he was of the opinion she should be allowed to 
reject the car. He asked BMF to:
Collect the car collected at no cost to Ms D and her deposit returned plus 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to settlement.
BMF keep 2x monthly payments in deference to the time and use had by Ms
D prior to the faults. All subsequent payments should be returned plus 8% simple 
interest from date of payment to settlement.
Pay £200 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
BMF agreed to most of the investigators findings but disagreed with the redress regarding 
the monthly payments. It said despite the faults with the car, Ms D had use of it and was 
provided with a courtesy car whilst it was repaired. It said this should be considered. It also 
said the dealership had provided a Satellite Navigation System at a cost of £250 and this 
should be deducted from any redress.
Ms D says the car was supposed to be supplied with a Satellite Navigation system and it 
wasnt, this is why the dealership purchased and fitted it. She doesnt agree that this should 
be repaid. She says, despite the mileage she only had actual use of the car for two months 
and doesnt agree five months payments are owed. Further, she feels the trouble and upset 
this matter has caused isnt reflected in the £200 compensation suggested.
The investigator considered the additional submissions and issued a second view. He said 
his starting position was to put Ms D back in the position she would have been in had she 
not purchased the car. He said as the Sat Nav was purchased by the dealership the cost 
should be refunded and on balance, he felt five months payments fairly reflected the use she 
had of the car. He asked BMF to:
Collect the car at no cost to Ms D and return her deposit plus 8% simple
interest from the date of payment to settlement.
BMF keep 5x monthly payments in deference to the time and use had by Ms
D prior to the faults. All subsequent payments should be returned plus 8%
simple interest from date of payment to settlement.
Pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused
£250 payment paid by the dealership for the Satellite Navigation should be deducted 
from the deposit.
BMF agreed with the investigators findings.
Ms D did not. She says he has no use for the Sat Nav and will return it with the car and so it 
shouldnt be deducted. She feels the five months payments are unfair and it remains her 
view that £200 isnt enough for the trouble and upset this matter has caused. She asks for 
an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the information from both parties afresh.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Firstly, I appreciate this has been a very frustrating and stressful time for Ms D and I 
understand she feels strongly about the way BMF have handled this matter. But its 
important to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate or 
punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead, this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory considering any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In this case there are several factors that have caused a problem with this service being able 
to gain the full facts in relation to whether the car was of satisfactory quality. In part, the 
dealership has completed repairs but has failed to provide all the documents in relation to 
those repairs. Ms D has said she is dissatisfied with the repairs but hasnt agreed to an 
independent inspection to attain a conclusive outcome.
In order to decide whether there's been a misrepresentation, I need to look at all the 
available evidence and determine, on the balance of probability, whether Ms D was given 
incorrect or misleading information at the point of supply.
Ms D has argued that she was promised a service history, however, that hasnt materialised, 
and the car has since had several faults with which she remains dissatisfied. I have noted 
BMF havent disputed this finding, but for the avoidance of doubt, having reviewed all the 
evidence available I agree Ms D should be allowed to reject the car for this reason. 
Having determined Ms D should be allowed to reject the car, it falls to me to determine how 
this matter should be resolved.
From what I can see Ms D has concerns with three key areas: 
the repayment of £250 for the satellite navigation system and;
the number of monthly payments Ms D should make to BMF for the time the car has 
been in her possession.
She feels £200 redress for trouble and upset insufficient
I can see in an email dated 24 May 2020 Ms D agreed to the deduction of £250 for the Sat 
Nav, but later felt this was unfair. I have looked at all the information provided on this issue. I 
understand the payment was made as the car was promised with a Satnav it did not have 
and the dealership then paid Ms D £250 in order that she could purchase one herself. In 
rewinding the agreement, I must then also reverse the payment made by the dealership, in 
order to put both parties back in the position they would both have been had the agreement 
not been taken out. For this reason, I agree there should be a deduction of £250 from the 
overall redress.
The number of monthly payments that should be made for the time the car was in Ms Ds 
position. She agrees the car travelled 5,118 miles whilst in Ms Ds possession, with 300 
miles covered by the dealership, leaving around 4,818 miles travelled by herself. Ms D says 
she travelled these miles over only 2 months and suggests this would be a fair settlement. 
The way in which this service calculates fair and reasonable usage is 1 x monthly payment 
for every 1000 miles covered, there are other methods, but this would also be the most cost-
effective calculation for Ms D. This in no way seeks to suggest what Ms D says is incorrect 
but rather seeks to find an impartial calculation which is fair to both parties. Im persuaded 
the representation of 5 monthly payments is a reasonable calculation in this case.
Regarding the trouble and upset this matter has caused. I appreciate Ms D doesnt feel this 
is enough, and I take her point that she provided all this information to BMF, but it didnt 
accept, and she has had to wait for this decision. But awards made by this service in this 
respect are relatively modest and Im persuaded £200 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I wouldnt want Ms D to feel the level of award in anyway 
diminish what has clearly been a frustrating and stressful experience.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and I direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:Collect the car at no cost to Ms D
return her deposit returned plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
settlement less £250 for the Satnav payment made
BMF keep 5x monthly payments in deference to the time and use had by Ms
D. All subsequent payments should be returned plus 8% simple interest from date of 
payment to settlement.
Pay £200 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman