DRN-3593462
The complaint
Miss M complains PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) had unfairly invoiced her for end of 
contract charges. 
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision, for clarity I 
repeat it here.
In May 2017, Miss M acquired a second-hand car through a four-year hire purchase
agreement with PSA.
In May 2021, the hire purchase agreement ended, and Ms M had the option to return the car 
or pay a final payment and retain it. Miss M chose to return he car and arranged for it to be
collected.
On collection, the car was inspected by PSAs agent and the following damage and missing 
items were identified:
Incomplete service history (x2) £400.00
Missing service book £25.00
Front Alloy Wheel Right £65.00
Front Alloy Wheel Left £65.00
Rear Alloy Wheel Left £65.00
Rear Alloy Wheel Right £65.00
Front Door Left £122.00
B post Left £48.00
Quarter panel Left £48.00
Rear Bumper £75.00
Rear Bumper Tow Eye Cover £10.00
Rear Bumper (un-painted) £75.00
Parcel Shelf Strap Left £30.26
Front Door Right £122.00
Front Door Mirror Housing Right £40.00
Quarter Panel Right £48.00
Front Bumper £75.00
The total invoice issued from PSA was for the amount of £1378.26.
Miss M disputed the charges. She said a service book had never been supplied; that she
had evidence that the car had been serviced; the costs PSA charged were excessive; and 
that the car was second-hand when it was supplied, so had already
been subjected to wear and tear. Miss M complained to PSA.
In its final response dated 5 August 2021, PSA didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. It said that 
the report together with the photos taken of the car clearly showed that it had sustained 
damage outside fair wear and tear and the charges were in line with the agreements terms 
and conditions  but as a gesture of goodwill they had agreed to reduce the invoice by £300.
Miss M remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into her complaint. In his view, he found the damages to the car 
outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines and the missing service history was also due and 
chargeable. He didnt find PSA had acted unfairly and so he didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss M disagreed she argues very strongly that all the service history was provided at the 
time the car was collected and she has never had a service book with the car. She feels the 
charges are unfair and asks for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional findings I said under the hire purchase agreement, which Miss M had 
agreed to, PSA is entitled to charge for damage which is beyond fair wear and tear. I 
explained the reason for this is that a car with a higher level of damage will likely have a 
lower resale value than a car with a lower level of damage and it wouldnt be fair for PSA 
Finance to lose out financially because its car hasnt been maintained as agreed in the 
contract it has with you. So, I said as a starting point at least, I think it is fair that PSA be 
allowed to rely on the terms of the agreement that both parties freely entered into.
I looked at the inspection report and the photographs of the damage to the car when it was 
returned to PSA at the end of the contract. The investigator went into some detail in his view 
about the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidance regarding fair 
wear and tear, so I didnt repeat it again, but having looked at the photographic evidence I  
concluded that the damages on all counts fell outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines. 
I said I appreciated Miss M had said that there was evidence of wear and tear when she 
acquired the car but without any evidence of what that was or to what extent it was present 
at the time of sale, it is very difficult to make an assessment. I explained in such cases, I 
must reach a decision on the balance of probability, that is to say what I think is more likely 
to be the case. 
I considered that the car was only two years old when Miss M acquired it and had travelled 
29,000 miles. Miss M had the car for 4 years and travelled a further 20,000 miles, so without 
evidence of any issues beforehand, I find it more likely than not the damages occurred whilst 
in Miss Ms possession. As the damage exceeds the fair wear and tear guidelines, I said I 
was persuaded it is chargeable.
With regard to the missing service book and service history I reached a different view to that 
of our investigator. I applied the same balance of probability approach to the testimony Miss 
M has given. I can see she has had the car serviced and at least the latest service was 
recorded as received on the inspection report. Miss M reported she has had difficulty in 
sourcing copies of the services from the garage because she gave the originals, or her 
father did, when the car was collected.
I find it hard to reconcile why Miss M would have the car serviced and then not provide the 
documents. I also find it more likely that had she had a service book in her possession, she 
would have had it stamped when she had it serviced. Miss M argued this point vociferously 
and I found her explanation of delay in seeking copies plausible if the originals had been 
provided at collection. I see no reason why she wouldnt have provided them as she did 
have the car serviced.
For this reason although PSA reduced the invoice by an amount of £300 as a gesture of 
good will, Im persuaded it should remove the £400 charge for the missing service history 
and the £25 for the missing service book, but Miss M should pay for the remaining damages.
PSA responded to my provisional decision and accepted my findings.
Miss M hasnt said that she does or doesnt accept my provisional findings. She has 
suggested she may seek further legal redress and also that she has now sorted the 
position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their comments.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances. 
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on 
something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I 
think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
As both parties have provided no further submissions for my consideration, it follows I have 
reached the same conclusions to those in my provisional decision.
I would like to point out that Miss M doesnt have to accept my final decision and she is free 
to seek legal advice and any further action she chooses through the courts.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold this compliant in part and I direct PSA Finance UK 
Limited to:
Remove the charges of £400 for the missing service history and £25 for the missing 
service book from the invoice
Issue a new invoice for the damages totaling £953.26
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman