DRN-2274598
The complaint
Mr T has complained about advice he received in 2007 to transfer his existing personal 
pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and a Pension Fund Withdrawal Plan 
(PWP). He says hes lost out as a result of transferring.  
The advice was provided by G & C Financial Services (G & C) when it was an appointed 
representative of Thinc Group Limited. 
Mr T received further advice from G & C in 2009. However, G & C ceased acting as an  
appointed representative of Thinc in 2008. This means responsibility for this later advice falls 
to the new principle firm. I note that a complaint about this subsequent advice has already 
been considered by this service. So this decision only addresses the initial advice to transfer 
the personal pension  which Thinc is responsible for. 
What happened
In April 2007, Mr T met with an adviser from G & C to discuss his pension. The paperwork 
completed at the time confirmed that:  
Mr T was 63 years old, married and employed. He had an expected retirement age of 
65
Mr T held a personal pension with Z. A statement issued on 18 April 2007 confirmed 
that the plan contained protected rights worth £28,349.91 and non-protected rights 
worth £150,707.02 (£179.056.93 in total)
Mr T believed he would be entitled to the full state pension at age 65
Mr T had assets worth £453,000 including his home, which had an outstanding 
interest only mortgage of £70,000
Mr T had a balanced attitude to risk
The paperwork recorded Mr Ts objectives as: 
Wishing to take maximum tax free cash at the start to reduce the interest only 
mortgage
Wishing to draw the maximum income from the plan while he was still working so he 
could reduce the outstanding capital balance on his mortgage, which would help as 
he wouldnt be paying as much interest, having used his tax free lump sum to reduce 
the outstanding amount. 
Hoping to give up full time work at age 65/66, aided by his state pension and income 
from his drawdown plan. Also considering selling or renting out his villa in the Czech 
Republic to produce additional income. And would envisage reducing drawings from 
his pension fund at that stage
Attracted to ability to leave full fund to his wife should he predecease her 
An undated letter was issued to Mr T following the meeting. This letter gave a summary of 
the advisers recommendation.  The letter said:
Following our discussions I have recommended the solution detailed below, based on 
affordability and your stated attitude to risk of balance. This meets your objectives by [sic] 
You wish to maximise the level of tax free cash on onset and to maximise your income in the 
time between now and ages 65/66 so that you can repay the residual capital on your 
mortgage. You will thus be taking £44,003 tax free cash and a maximum income of £10788 
gross across your protected and non protected funds. You are also keen on the more flexible 
death benefits on this fund if [Mr T] were to die and the ability for your fund to achieve growth 
to fund income. Although this is not guaranteed
Funds:  20% Standard  Life Bank  account
15% property  Fund
25% Invesco Perpetual High Income 
10% Standard Life Global REIT 
20% Dynamic Distribution Fund
10% Select Property Fund
Protected Rights Element the 20% in cash is in the Sterling Fund
Amount  of Tax-Free  case  taken £37,000  non protected  £7003  protected  rights  
Maximum  Gross  Income  £9074  pa non protected  £1714  protected  rights  
Chosen  Gross  Income  £9074  pa non protected  £1714  protected  rights
Please refer to the Key Features Document, illustration and product literature that has 
previously been provided to you and take time to read them as they contain a great deal of 
important information about your proposed pension plan. These documents explain the risk 
factors, the charges and any early surrender penalties that are applicable to the contract. 
These include the following: -
Taking withdrawals may erode the capital value of the fund, especially if investment 
returns are poor and a high level of income is being taken. This could result in a 
lower income when the annuity is finally purchased.
The open market option is not guaranteed and  this may result in a higher or lower 
fund value on the date of transfer
The investment returns may be less than those shown in the illustrations
Growth rates may fall or rise resulting in a reduction of increase in the value of your 
fund
Annuity rates may be at a worse level when annuity purchase takes place.
Once the transfer has been paid all rights and guarantees in your previous pension 
scheme will end
High-income withdrawals may not be sustainable during the deferral  period
In times of adverse property markets, Fund Managers reserve the right to delay 
encashment for up to 6 months in order to protect other unit holders
Enclosed with the letter was a copy of the advisers suitability report.  This provided further 
information regarding the advisers recommendation for Mr T transfer his fund with Z to a 
SIPP and PWP with a firm Ill refer to as S. And it recommended that the investments were 
reviewed annually and the income levels reviewed every 5 years. The report also explained that the charges were higher with this arrangement compared with 
those incurred by taking an annuity. The report set the charges out as follows: 
Fund Management charges
Invesco Perpetual High Income Fund 1.910%
SL Pension Property Fund 1.50%
SL1 Global REIT Fund 1.51%
Standard Life Global Dynamic Fund 1.4%
Standard Life Select  Property 1.54%
The report explained there was a yearly charge of 0.6% for the first 6 years of the plan to 
offset the costs of administration and set up. And a 0.5% charge to cover the ongoing fund  
based renewal commission.  And as long as the fund is above £50,000 Standard Life will 
add an additional 0.3% allocation to the fund annually but added monthly.
The report set out the advantages and disadvantages of the recommendation. It said:
The Advantages
Maximum  tax-free  -This  cash  may be utilised  at the outset,  without  the need  to buy an 
annuity.
Flexible  pension  Income  - The timing  and level  of each  years  pension  income  can be 
varied  (within  the income  limit)  to help tax planning.
Control  - An annuity  can be bought  at any time or alternatively  after age 75 can continue  
to choose  income  drawdown  under  the rules  of Alternatively  Secured  Pension  (ASP)
Growth  Potential  - As the Unsecured  Pension  amount  stays  actively  invested  within  the 
tax- efficient  environment,  there  is potential  for real future  growth.
Flexible  options  on death  - A survivor's  pension  can be paid by continued  income  
drawdown  or by annuity  purchase.  Alternatively,  the remaining  unsecured  pension  
amount  can normally  be paid as a lump  sum less 35% tax charge.  Protected  rights  
funds  are subject  to marital  status  and must
Disadvantages
Annuity  rates  - The annual  annuities  purchased  will depend  on the annuity  rates  
prevailing  at the time of purchase,  and possible  selection  of spouse  benefits.  Annuity  
rates  could  fall thereby  reducing  the amount  of the annuity  eventually  purchased.  Future  
annuity  rates  are not guaranteed  and could  be worse  when  an annuity  contract  is finally  
bought.
Performance  - Pension  income  can go down.  The investment  fund could  suffer  from 
poor performance,  thus reducing  the eventual  fund value.  This could  mean  that pension  
income  is lower  than if a conventional  annuity  had been  bought.
Charges  - These  are generally  higher  than conventional  annuities.
Maintenance  - It is also a more  complex  contract  than an annuity  and must  be reviewed  
regularly
Mr T accepted the advisers recommendation and his fund with Z was transferred to a SIPP 
and PWP. By the time the transfer completed, the value of the non-protected rights had 
increased to £155,300.40 and the protected rights had increased to £29,037.39 
(£184,337.79 in total). Mr T received tax free cash of just over £46,000 and the remaining 
funds were invested in line with the advisers fund recommendations. Mr T received income 
payments from his plan, in years one to five he received a total annual income of 
£11,613.25. Mr T complained to G & C in 2018 as hed initially transferred £185,000 and had accessed 
around £120,000. But his remaining funds were worth around £42,000 in total so he was 
unhappy with how his funds had been invested. Initially our service considered a complaint 
about the investment advice provided from 2008 onwards, while G & C was an appointed 
representative of another firm. However, Mr T made a further complaint about the initial 
advice he received to transfer to SIPP and PWP. 
In summary, Mr T complained that there was no apparent reason to transfer his plan from Z 
to the SIPP and PWP; hed been happy with his existing plan. Which appeared to have 
grown by around £8k in the month before being transferred so he was unsure why there was 
a need to move it. The drawdown amounts from the SIPP and PWP had been erratic and 
hed taken too high an income which he didnt have a need for at that time. And he wasnt 
happy with the review process, he felt hed been left in the dark concerning the charging 
structure and the adviser had been vague about the potential gains. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He firstly clarified he was only considering 
the initial advice and up to the point where G & C ceased to be under the authorisation of 
Thinc. And having done so, he didnt think the advice G & C provided was unsuitable. 
In summary, the investigator felt that:
The information suggested that the plan with Z didnt offer a drawdown facility. It was 
only possible to take tax free cash and an annuity through the existing plan
The notes from the meeting suggested that Mr T wanted to take tax free cash of 25% 
and then income of around £9k per annum as he wanted to reduce/payoff his interest 
only mortgage before he retired in a few years time
The level of income taken in the first year was with a view to paying off as much of 
Mr Ts existing mortgage as he could
The adviser had clearly outlined the possibilities of how taking a large income from a 
policy could, in future, affect the capital within the policy, stating Taking withdrawals 
may erode the capital value of the fund, especially if investment returns are
poor and a high level of income is being taken
Mr Ts stated attitude to risk has been adhered to within the meeting and with the 
spread of investments
The charges for the investments had been clearly outlined in the advisers 
recommendation letter
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators findings. In his final submissions he said that: 
he hadnt been informed by G & C that there were other parent  companies 
involved. So when he initially complained he expected the ombudsman to consider 
his complaint as a unit rather than as two separate cases. In his mind there has only 
been one firm involved throughout the entire process, G & C
The initial investment was totally wrong but that has only transpired over the 10 year 
period
The fund value of the plan with Z increased by over £8,000 in the month before in 
transferred so there was no need to move funds
Its hard to believe that Z didnt offer a drawdown  this shouldve been discussed
The drawdown management was dismal and he was led to believe that the income 
from the investment would be good enough to support it 
The portfolio was neglected and mismanaged
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. Having assessed everything on file, Im not 
upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Id firstly like to apologise to Mr T for the time it has taken to reach this stage in our process. 
I appreciate that he thought his concerns about G & C would be dealt with under one 
complaint but for reasons already explained by the investigator, that wasnt possible. As G & 
C was only authorised as an appointed representative, responsibility for its actions and 
advice it provided, falls to principle firm that it was appointed to at the time of the event being 
complained of. That means that Thinc is responsible until July 2008 and the new principle 
thereafter. 
A complaint about G & Cs actions after July 2008 has already been considered and upheld 
against the new principle firm and it was directed to complete a loss assessment to see if 
Mr T had been disadvantaged by its errors. 
My decision focuses on the initial advice provided to Mr T to transfer the plan he held with Z 
and a SIPP and PWP with S, and to start drawing an income. 
Was the advice to transfer suitable?
My role is not to recreate what I think was the best possible advice Mr T couldve been 
given. In order for me to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that G & Cs 
advice was unsuitable and in breach of the regulators rules. 
When Mr T took out his plan with Z, drawdown  as a way of accessing funds within a 
pension  hadnt been introduced. And while its possible with many of the newer types of 
pension plans that exist today, such as SIPPs, to move funds to drawdown within the same 
product, this wasnt always the case. So it wasnt possible for Mr T to access his tax free 
cash through Z and leave the remaining funds invested in the existing product that he held. If 
Mr T had accessed his tax free cash through the plan he held with Z, he wouldve been 
required to purchase an annuity with the remaining funds. 
Ive carefully considered the information available to me, taking account of both Mr Ts 
testimony and the original sales paperwork thats been provided. I appreciate that Mr T has 
now said that his mortgage was on a low interest rate so it wasnt necessary for him to repay 
it at that time. However, looking at the objectives set out in the paperwork, it does appear 
that Mr T wished to take action in 2007 to reduce and then pay off his interest only mortgage 
before he retired.  This was clearly set out as an objective in the suitability report and the 
basis for the recommendation was to meet this objective. 
Mr T made contact with G & C because he was looking to discuss his retirement options so I 
think its likely that he was considering ways of accessing his pension fund. This is further 
supported by Mr Ts comments that he should have been advised to take drawdown with Z 
as the fund was performing so well. Im therefore satisfied that Mr T told the adviser that one 
of his objectives was to access his tax free cash so he could pay a lump sum off his 
mortgage. It doesnt appear that Mr T had any other means of repaying his interest only 
mortgage so this doesnt seem an unreasonable objective. Mr T has said that he cant see why he was advised to move from the plan with Z when it 
was performing so well. However, in order to meet his stated objective of taking tax free 
cash, he wasnt able to remain in the funds that he was invested in with Z. It may well have 
been the case that Z offered its own drawdown plan. But in order to move into that plan, Mr 
T wouldve had to close down his existing plan  so disinvest the funds he was in  to enable 
the tax free cash to be paid and for the new drawdown plan to have been set up. He couldnt 
have accessed his tax free cash and left the remainder of his fund invested in the exiting 
plan with Z. And while there are a greater number of options now for individuals when taking 
their retirement benefits, at the time of advice in 2007 there were only two options open to 
him after taking his tax free cash; either using the remaining fund to purchase an annuity or 
moving the fund to a drawdown plan. 
As Im satisfied there was a need/objective to access the tax free cash, Ive next considered 
whether the advice to move the remaining funds to drawdown was suitable. 
The paperwork suggests that Mr T not only had an objective to use his tax free cash to repay 
part of his mortgage but it also states that he wished to take greater income in the years 
before he retired to repay what was outstanding, after the tax free cash had been used to 
reduce the balance. T says he didnt need the extra income and that this wasnt his 
objective. But this objective is referenced in both the suitability report and letter that were 
sent to Mr T before he agreed to go ahead with the transaction. The second paragraph of 
the letter said: 
Following our discussions I have recommended the solution detailed below, based on 
affordability and your stated attitude to risk of balance. This meets your objectives by [sic] 
You wish to maximise the level of tax free cash on onset and to maximise your income in 
the time between now and ages 65/66 so that you can repay the residual capital on 
your mortgage [my emphasis] You will thus be taking £44,003 tax free cash and a 
maximum income of £10788 gross across your protected and non protected funds.
Im also conscious that the second objective listed on the suitability report was:
2) At the same time you wish to draw out the maximum income from the plan so  
that you can whilst still working reduce the outstanding capital balance on your 
mortgage, which will be helped as you will not be paying interest on the element you 
have paid off with the tax free lump sum. At age 65/66 you hope to give up full time 
work aided by your  entitlement to a Basic State Pension and the income from your 
drawdown plan, you also  have a villa in the Czech republic which you might sell to 
produce additional income or let out to provide income. At this stage you envisage 
reducing your drawings from the pension withdrawal fund.
Given that the main basis for the recommendation was to fulfil this objective and that Mr T 
received this letter and suitability report before agreeing to go ahead, I think on balance, its 
likely that taking the maximum income was one of Mr Ts objectives at that time. I do 
appreciate that Mr T may now believe, with the benefit of hindsight, that he didnt need to 
take income at that time. While I acknowledge that im not in a position to tell precisely what 
was discussed in the meetings, I think its reasonable to suggest that if the adviser had 
misunderstood Mr Ts needs or misinterpreted his objectives, then Mr T ought to have 
discussed this with the adviser at that time before agreeing to go ahead. The SIPP and PWP enabled Mr T to vary of income drawn between a maximum and a 
minimum annual amount. At the time of advice in 2007, the maximum was 120% of the rate 
shown on tables produced by the Government Actuary's Department (GAD tables). And the 
minimum was 0% of the rate shown on the table. So the recommended plans met Mr Ts 
objective of allowing him to take higher income in the years up to his retirement in order to 
pay off his mortgage. And Mr T has said that he did use the tax free cash and other income 
to repay his mortgage. So in my view it wasnt unreasonable advice for Mr T to move to a 
plan that enabled him to do this. 
However, there are a number of things that I would expect the adviser to have explained, 
these being the need for ongoing reviews, that the charges were likely more expensive and 
the risks involved with the arrangement. So Ive considered whether the adviser made Mr T 
aware of these factors. 
I can see that the need for ongoing investment reviews was explained in the suitability letter 
and report. So Im satisfied that Mr T was made aware that these would be required. 
However, Im unable to comment on these subsequent reviews  which have been subject to 
a separate complaint  as they were carried out after Thinc ceased to be G & Cs principle 
and so they arent Thincs responsibility.  
In terms of the charges, the suitability letter and report explain that the charges involved with 
this new arrangement were likely to be higher than those incurred with an annuity. I wouldnt 
generally think that a more expensive arrangement would be suitable. But in these 
circumstances, the SIPP and PWP - although more expensive - did enable Mr T to meet his 
objectives. And Im satisfied that Mr T was made aware of the risks involved with the new 
arrangement, in particular the suitability report stated Taking withdrawals may erode the 
capital value of the fund, especially if investment returns are poor and a high level of income 
is being taken. This could result in a lower income when the annuity is finally purchased.
Mr T has said that he believed that he could draw the maximum income and this would be 
covered by the investment performance. And while I appreciate that it was hoped that this 
would be the case, I can see that he was warned in the suitability report that: 
Performance  - Pension  income  can go down.  The investment  fund could  suffer  
from poor performance,  thus reducing  the eventual  fund value.  This could  mean  
that pension  income  is lower  than if a conventional  annuity  had been  bought.
So I do think he was made aware that there was a chance his fund might erode if it didnt 
perform well or if he continued to take the maximum income levels each year. The 
paperwork suggests that it was envisaged in 2007 that Mr T would only be drawing the 
maximum level of income for the first few years while he repaid his mortgage. At that point, 
he would start to receive his state pension and was planning on either renting out or selling 
his property in the Czech Republic in order to generate additional income. 
Ive also considered whether the initial investments that were recommended were in line with 
Mr Ts attitude to risk. Mr T was assessed as having a balanced attitude to risk and I can see 
that both the SIPP and the PWP were invested across a range of investments, with 60% of 
the funds in balanced investments, 35% in low risk investments and 10% was placed in an 
adverturous investments. So while there were some low and high risk investments, I think 
overall, the portfolio was balanced so it met with Mr Ts attitude to risk. Im aware that the fund value increased significantly between the initial quotation being 
provided by Z in April 2007 and the fund transferring. As Mr T will most likely understand, its 
normal for investments of this nature to fluctuate in value. In this case it seems that Mr T 
benefited from the increase as he transferred away when the fund was at a higher value 
than had previously been quoted. I should make it clear that just because the fund had 
increased at that time, doesnt mean that it wouldve continued to grow at the same rate or 
that it would have maintained this increased value. As with investments of this nature, the 
fund value will rise and fall in line with the individual unit and share prices. In any event, as 
Im satisfied Mr T had a need to access his tax free cash, it wasnt possible for him to have 
remained in the funds - or product  he was in at that time. So he would always have needed 
to disinvest the funds and change the product, either to annuity or draw in order to take his 
tax free cash. 
As Ive mentioned above, moving to a drawdown plan wasnt the only way that Mr T could 
have taken his benefits. He could also have taken tax free cash and an annuity. I can see 
that the adviser investigated this option. And, as I would expect, not only did he request 
annuity information from Z but the paperwork Ive seen shows that he also researched what 
was available to Mr T on the open market, to see which company could offer Mr T the best 
annuity. The suitability report makes reference to the annuity that could be purchased. But 
the evidence Ive seen suggest that Mr T wasnt keen on this option as he wasnt ready at 
that time to annuitize and wanted to be able to draw a higher income in the run up to his 
retirement in order to repay his mortgage. This wasnt possible with an annuity as once 
started, the income level an annuity pays remains fixed, albeit with the possibility to have it 
increase in line with certain indexes.  But it wouldnt have been possible to take a higher 
income initially and then reduce the amount taken once the mortgage was repaid. The only 
way this was possible was for Mr T to move his plan with Z to a drawdown plan. So for the 
reasons explained, I dont think the advice G &C provided to transfer the plan with Z to a 
SIPP and PWP was unsuitable. So Im not upholding the complaint. 
I can only consider the actions of G & C while it was an appointed representative of Thinc, 
so only up until 2008. By the time the first plan review was due, G &C was no longer an 
appointed representative of Thinc. Therefore Im unable to consider any concerns that Mr T 
has about the ongoing management of the investments and the drawdown plan. Having said 
that, another ombudsman here has already considered the actions of G & C from 2008 
onwards and a decision has been issued upholding the complaint in that regard.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think the advice 
provided by G & C (as an appointed representative of Thinc) was unsuitable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman