DRN-3015873
The complaint
 Mr K complains that he couldnt access his money after The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) closed his accounts.
This complaint relates to the account Mr K held jointly with one of his family members.
What happened
 Mr K held an RBS joint account with one of his family members. In October 2019, RBS 
wrote to Mr K to let him know that theyd be closing the account and gave Mr K 60 days 
notice.
When RBS sent Mr K the money, the cheque was in his family members name  so Mr K 
couldnt pay it into his alternative bank account. He complained to RBS and they agreed to 
transfer the amount by bank transfer if Mr K filled in a form and provided photo identification.
Mr K said he filled in the relevant form in branch in February 2020 and provided the relevant 
identification. The advisor in the branch told Mr K the money would be with him in around 20 
days  however Mr K didnt receive it. RBS said they hadnt received a copy of Mr Ks 
identification and they couldnt release the funds without it.
Mr K referred the complaint to our service and RBS then agreed to transfer the money. RBS 
said while they still hadnt received the relevant identification, they made an exception to 
their process in an attempt to resolve Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K remained unhappy  he wanted compensation due to the time it had taken, and the 
inconvenience caused. The investigator who looked into things thought it more likely than 
not that Mr K had filled in the form and provided the relevant identification. So, she asked 
RBS to pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
RBS agreed but Mr K didnt. Mr K said the situation had caused him sleepless nights and 
hed spent money travelling to the branch and hours on the phone trying to resolve the 
situation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
Earlier in August 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
RBS closed Mr Ks account as theyre entitled to do under the terms and conditions. I note 
the closure of Mr Ks account isnt in dispute, but I thought it would be helpful to confirm that 
Im satisfied RBS didnt do anything wrong when closing it.
RBS sent a cheque to Mr K with the balance of one of his accounts in his family members 
name who he shared the account with. This caused Mr K problems as he wasnt able to 
cash the cheque as it didnt have his name on. Im pleased to see RBS offered to rectify 
things by giving Mr K an alternative option of a bank transfer.
RBS explained to Mr K that hed need to fill in a form and provide photographic identification 
for them to be able to make the bank transfer. Mr K says he visited an RBS branch in 
February 2020, and they helped him fill out the form. RBS havent been able to provide any 
system notes to confirm this visit took place  and Mr K has only been able to provide his 
testimony. However, having looked at all the other evidence, including telephone 
conversations between Mr K and RBS, Im satisfied based on the balance of probabilities 
that Mr K did fill out the relevant form in branch. Because of that, I think its reasonable to 
believe that the branch staff would have checked Mr K had provided everything he needed 
to on the form  including photographic identification. So, I conclude that RBS had all the 
information they needed to make the transfer on 24 February 2020 during Mr Ks branch 
visit. 
Mr K was told it would take 20 days for the transfer to take place. I havent seen any 
evidence to confirm whether this was 20 calendar days or 20 working days, so Ive based my 
decision on 20 calendar days. Therefore, Im satisfied Mr K should have received his money 
no later than 16 March 2020.
Mr K didnt receive his money until August 2020 when he referred the complaint to our 
service. So, he was without his funds for a period of five months. I note the time and effort 
Mr K spent on trying to resolve things, and that alongside not having access to the money in 
the account would have caused distress. Because of that, I think a compensation amount of 
£300 is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr K. I also think RBS 
should add 8% simple interest on to the amount they refunded Mr K from the date they 
reasonably could have paid it  16 March 2020  to the date they did pay it.
RBS responded to my provisional decision and didnt have anything to add. Mr K responded 
and remained unhappy. He didnt think the compensation was a fair reflection on how long 
hed been without his money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 RBS didnt provide any further evidence or arguments in response to my provisional 
decision. 
I note Mr K remains unhappy and he doesnt think the compensation is enough. Mr K said he 
spent hours in the branch trying to sort things out and went nearly nine months without his 
money.
Ive found that RBS had all the information they needed from Mr K on 24 February 2020 and 
then had 60 calendar days to transfer the money to him. Therefore, I conclude that Mr K 
should have had access to his money no later than 16 March 2020. But he didnt receive it 
until August 2020. So, I find Mr K was without his money for five months rather than the nine 
which Mr K has argued.
Putting things right
 I believe the 8% added interest will compensate Mr K for the time he was without the money 
 it recognises the loss of use. And I find £300 compensation to be a fair reflection of the 
time and effort Mr K spent trying to sort things out and the distress it no doubt would have 
caused.
So, while I recognise Mr Ks upset, I cant reasonably ask RBS to pay anything more. So I 
wont be changing my provisional decision
My final decision My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. 
To put things right, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should do the following:
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the £2,043.04 they transferred to Mr K. 
They should calculate this from the date they reasonably could have transferred the 
money  16 March 2020  to the date they did pay it  26 August 2020.
HM Revenue & Customs requires The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to withhold 
income tax from the above-mentioned interest. RBS should give Mr K a certificate 
showing how much is taken off if Mr K asks for one.
Pay Mr K £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman