DRN-2926214
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains through one of their directors Mr D, about Brown Shipley & 
Co Limited (BSC). It is unhappy with BSCs decision to call in a loan and also thinks that its 
investments were not made in line with the agreed mandate. For ease of reading I will only 
refer to P.
What happened
P was a discretionary client of BSC and also had a loan agreement with it. In March 2020 
BSC made the decision to call in the loan. P subsequently complained to BSC about the 
decision and about the management of its investments. BSC didnt uphold the complaint, so 
P asked us to look into the matter.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt think it should be 
upheld. The investigator thought that the decision to call in the loan wasnt unfair, this was 
because the loan agreement stated that P had to ensure the loan to pledge (LTP) value was 
more than 100%. If BSC made a margin call then P had two days to restore the LTP value, 
failing this, or if the LTP value exceeded 105% then BSC could close positions sufficient to 
restore the LTP value. The LTP value at the time of the margin call was around 117% so it 
didnt seem unfair that BSC made the decision it did. 
The investigator also considered the management of Ps portfolio. She thought, in summary, 
that while the equity content of the portfolio was slightly higher than the agreed mandate, 
BSC hadnt exposed P to too much risk. This was because Ps portfolio was well diversified 
and had no direct equity investment - any equity investment was through diversified funds 
which included equities.
P didnt agree with her findings and said, in summary, that BSC had advised it on 18 March 
2020 that it was in danger of breaching the LTP parameters but didnt give it any time to 
remedy the position.
The investigator had ignored the fact that the asset allocation figures in the mandate were 
for the entire portfolio, not just the cautious element. The structured products were entirely 
equity dependent, and the cautious portfolio was 38% dependent on equities - this was way 
above the mandate. Also, the asset allocation range for equities was 0% to 30% which was 
meant to cover any imbalances during the initial investment period. The medium-term target 
was 15% and surely after three years the medium-term target should have kicked in.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, she noted Ps point regarding the 
medium-term target but referred to the range of 0% to 30% equities in the mandate. She 
thought that this allowed for potential fluctuations in the asset allocation over time. She 
appreciated that there was slightly more invested in equities, but due to the overall diversity 
of the portfolio the thought the investment remained within the cautious mandate 
parameters. She considered what P had said about the structured element of the investment 
being 100% dependant on the performance of equities. But she thought that as the 
investments were not made directly into equities, the exposure wasnt the same. 
P didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will now explain why. 
Ive firstly considered the terms of the loan agreement P had with BSC. In simple terms, the 
loan facility of £3,000,000 was linked to the value of the portfolio. If the loan to pledge (LTP) 
value - the total loan as a percentage of the adjusted value of the assets it was secured 
against - was equal to or exceeded 105%, BSC could make a margin call and ask for part of 
the loan to be repaid, more funds to be added to the investment the loan was secured 
against or further security put forward.
BSC has said that on 10 March 2020 the LTP value was 105%, this increased to 110% on 
13 March and 117% on 18 March. The available evidence shows that BSC contacted P to 
advise it of its options on 11 March but P didnt wish to take any action at the time. The 
values of the underlying investment continued to fall and on 18 March, BSCs credit 
committee made the decision that P had to bring the LTP value back with 105%.
Having considered the actions of BSC, I dont think theyve treated P unfairly by asking it to 
take action. The terms of the loan agreement set out the parameters under which the loan 
was made, and I can see that BSC allowed the LTP value to exceed 105% for a period of 
time. However, the worsening market conditions meant that the underlying investment value 
continued to fall and therefore the LTP value continued to increase. I dont think its 
unreasonable that BSC then made the margin call after considering if it should allow P more 
leeway. So I wont be asking it to do anything about this complaint point. 
Ive then considered the concerns P has raised about the portfolio. In my opinion, the crux of 
the issues is if BSC adhered to the mandate it had agreed with P. P has made the point that 
the equity content of the portfolio was too high and exposed the portfolio to too much risk. 
This lack of diversification left the portfolio open to the market volatility that was seen in 
March 2020. 
With this in mind Ive considered the Investor Policy Statement (IPS) which details the 
agreement that was made. The key points were as follows:
The portfolio was to be managed on an overall medium risk basis.
Around 50% of the portfolio was to be made up of structured products and was 
classed as medium risk. The remainder was classed as low risk and was to be 
managed in line with the BSC cautious portfolio parameters. 
The structured product portfolio would be constructed and managed in a diversified 
manner across the various types of structured products, such as Income Accrual, 
Zero Coupon, Geared, Defensive Autocallable and Autocallable. 
There could also be investment in structured products that had a geared exposure to 
a particular equity market index but would still retain features of a structured product 
such as capital protection and a fixed term maturity.
The asset ranges were 40% - 70% Alternatives (55% medium term target), 0% - 30% 
Equities (15% medium term target), 10% - 30% Fixed Income (25% medium term target) and 0% - 20% Cash (5% medium term target). 
Ive thought about the point P has raised regarding the structured products - it has said that 
because they were 100% dependent on equities, this meant that the equity content of the 
portfolio was much higher than what was set out in the IPS. From what Ive seen, on 10 
March 2020, the portfolio was made up of around .5% Cash, 30.1% Fixed Income, 20.3% 
Equities and 49.1% Structured Products. 
Im not persuaded that because the structured products were dependent on equities, they 
should be treated as equities. When the portfolio was set up BSC noted There could also be 
investment in Structured Products that had a geared exposure to a particular equity market 
index but would still retain features of a structured product such as capital protection and a 
fixed term maturity.
The investment proposal that BSC sent to P contained a draft asset allocation which set out 
the indices that they would be exposed to. It shows that:
80% would be exposed to the FTSE 100 and EuroStoxx 50
10% would be exposed to the FTSE 100 and Nikkei 225
5% would be exposed to the FTSE 100 and S&P 500
5% would be exposed to the EuroStoxx 50 and Nikkei 225
I think that BSC made P aware of the nature of the structured products it intended to invest 
in. Ive reviewed the structured product makeup from 24 March 2020, from what Ive seen 
there were 15 Worst Of Autocalls linked to a variety of equity indices, two Range Accruals - 
again linked to equity indices and a Twin Win linked to the FTSE 100.
While the structured products were linked to equity indices, there wasnt direct equity 
investment so I dont think they should be classed as equities when determining the makeup 
of the portfolio. I say this because of how they were structured - among other things they 
were linked to the overall index performance and not a specific line of stock, they offered 
some capital protection (provided the underlying didnt fall below a certain level) and 
provided flexibility around length of term and index exposure. I think that there was a 
sufficient distinction between direct equity exposure and the structured products for them not 
to be classed as equities.
Because I think the structured products shouldnt be classed as equities, this means that the 
20% equity content of the portfolio fell within the 0% to 30% parameters set out in the IPS. I 
disagree with the point P has put forward regarding the medium-term target of 15%. I think 
that this target applied to the whole portfolio, not just the cautious element. So, while the 
equity content of 20% was slightly higher than the target of 15%, I dont think it was high 
enough to suggest that BSC was acting outside the mandate. I think the equity content was 
balanced by the Fixed Income holding of 30%, this was also higher than the medium-term 
target of 25% but was within the range of 10% to 30% set out in the IPS. 
Ive considered the point P has made that the asset ranges in the IPS were only to cover 
short term imbalances during the initial investment period. I disagree with this point, I think 
they were set to allow flexibility during periods of asset fluctuation. The only mention of 
short-term imbalances Ive seen is in the proposal where BSC said A cash balance may be 
held on the portfolio at any time and this may be up to 100% of the portfolio value. This 
allows for the phasing in of cash over an initial period of investment. The long-term 
maximum would be set at 20%.So having considered everything, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
to P, I dont think BSC have treated it unfairly or acted outside the mandate that was set. Im 
satisfied that P was in an informed position about how the portfolio was to be set up and 
managed and from what Ive seen, BSC have broadly acted within the parameters of the 
mandate. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman