DRN-3370326
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) defaulted 
his account.
What happened
Mr D had a Barclaycard. He lived in Thailand. No new purchases were being made as the 
card was cancelled in 2017, with some monthly payments being made. The limit was 
reduced in March 2017 from £13,500 to £8,500. The last credit to the account was £130 in 
March 2020. In August 2020, Barclaycard sent Mr D a Notice of Default - the balance was 
£6,609 and a payment of £779.68 was needed within 30 days. In September 2020, the 
default was registered and the debt was passed to a debt collection agency (DCA).
Mr D complained. The reduction in the limit meant that he was restricted and it caused him 
to go over it. He said hed tried to call Barclaycard to make payments but couldnt get 
through  due to the long wait times on the phone, which were up to an hour. He had no idea 
what the debt was as he didnt get any statements; and he didnt have online access to the 
account as the card had been cancelled. Barclaycard wouldnt call him back  as he was in 
Thailand. Hed asked Barclaycard to change the payment date for the monthly instalments, 
but theyd refused. He said the default was unfair.
Barclaycard said that the terms and conditions of the Barclaycard said it wasnt designed for 
use when customers live overseas  it was a UK card. So  they couldnt be responsible for 
any problems Mr D may have had because of his living abroad. Their records showed that 
Mr D told Barclaycard he was in Thailand in November 2019 and at that time he made some 
payments to the card  so he was able to do so. Mr D had advised them that statements 
should be sent to his daughters address in the UK  and it was Mr Ds responsibility to 
ensure he was aware of the position on his card. On the reduction in the limit, theyd 
refunded £24 of overlimit fees in July 2017 and hadnt applied any since then. They said the 
default was correctly applied and registered with the credit reference agencies. And Mr D 
should contact the debt collection agency to discuss a repayment programme.
Mr D brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard acted reasonably. The 
cards terms and conditions did say that the card was a UK card, and the account may be 
closed for customers living overseas. So that meant that it wasnt reasonable to expect 
Barclaycard to provide services on the card as if he were living in the UK. Our investigator 
said he could see that Mr D had been in contact with Barclaycards collections team by 
phone and email since he was living in Thailand  so it was possible for him to 
communicate. The waiting time on the phones was due to the pandemic, but under the 
circumstances, it wouldve been wise for Mr D to hang on to make payments to his card 
debt. He could see that Barclaycard had offered to set up a direct debit for the payment but 
Mr  D had declined.
Mr D didnt agree and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman. He said that 
if Barclaycard knew he was living overseas, and therefore the card wasnt designed for that 
purpose, they shouldve told him and closed his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ds complaint is that he couldnt easily communicate with Barclaycard and 
therefore couldnt make payments to his debt; he didnt know what his account balance was 
as he didnt have online access or receive statements; hed tried to set up direct debits or a 
standing order, but couldnt; he asked Barclaycard to change the payment due date but 
theyd refused.
Barclaycard told us that the terms and conditions of the card were that it was for UK use 
only, and not for customers living overseas. I looked at the terms and conditions and they 
say, We may close your account if you are living overseas. Barclaycard told us that the 
card is designed for UK use only  and so they cant be held responsible if problems occur 
because of Mr D living in Thailand. We asked Barclaycard more about this  if they knew Mr 
D was living in Thailand, why didnt they advise him of those terms and conditions. They told 
us that Mr Ds correspondence address was the UK address to which Mr Ds statements 
were being sent  this was the address they held in their records. So as far as Barclaycard 
were concerned, Mr D was living in the UK  which I think was reasonable. And in 
considering this further  even if Barclaycard knew Mr D was permanently living abroad 
(which they didnt)  given that the debt was £6,609  and regular payments to it werent 
being made, Im not persuaded that Mr D wouldve been able to repay the debt and close the 
account anyway.
I can see that Mr D advised Barclaycard to send his statements to his daughters address in 
the UK  so they were available for him to see, presumably by liaising with his daughter. I 
can also see that he was able to make payments from Thailand in 2019  so he knew how to 
do it at that time. It was also the case that he was making payments to his card debt 
throughout 2018 at a rate of around £200 per month  so he must have known his card 
details. And given that Mr D couldnt easily get through to Barclaycard on the phone to make 
a payment  he couldve used online banking to do so. I saw in a call he made to  
Barclaycard in July 2019 that he said he would try online banking  so it looks like he had 
internet access and could use that method to make a payment  without having to call 
Barclaycard. Mr D has argued that he couldnt see his Barclaycard account as that didnt 
have online access. Barclaycard told us that was the case, as the card had been cancelled. 
But that wouldnt have stopped Mr D from making an online payment from his bank current 
account to his Barclaycard account.
I accept that there were problems with customers calling most banks (including Barclaycard) 
during the pandemic. Waiting times were long because of staff being sent home to work, and 
the need to reorganise their call centre services. Barclaycard apologised for that, which I 
think was reasonable. But also  despite the wait times, given that Mr D knew he had a debt 
to repay, I think it was reasonable to expect him to hold on to get through  notwithstanding 
the cost of the calls. 
Mr D has also said that Barclaycard refused to change the payment due date on his card 
from the 23rd of the month to the 1st of the month. He says that if they had  that wouldve 
made a difference. I couldnt see any record of a request to do that in Barclaycards records, 
but Ive considered this point. And  as Mr D didnt make any payments to his card after 
March 2020  Im not persuaded that changing the due date on his account wouldve made a 
difference. 
Mr D says he attempted to set up a standing order but couldnt. Its not clear how he tried to 
do that  but again, if Mr D had online banking for his main bank current account, a standing order could have been set up using that facility. I did see that in August 2017, Barclaycard 
offered to set up a direct debit, but Mr D didnt want to. So  Im not persuaded that he made 
a significant effort here.
I could also see that when Mr D called Barclaycard, they tried to speak to him about his 
situation and wanted to undertake an affordability assessment. This may have led to an 
agreement for a payment plan, which might have worked for him. But unfortunately  in 
January 2018 and June 2019, Barclaycards records show that he didnt want to do that or 
didnt have the time to discuss it.
Ive thought about the communications from Barclaycard to Mr D. Their records show they 
tried to contact him by phone and text messages. And they sent several letters to his UK 
correspondence address. Eight letters were sent to him between March 2020 and 
September 2020. This included a letter dated 23 July 2020 saying Mr Ds account was 
overdue and the arrears were then £651.44. The letter said, Unless you pay all of the 
arrears due or get in touch with us urgently, well send you a Default Notice. The Default 
Notice was dated 26 August 2020 and asked for payment of the arrears of £779.68 by 26 
September 2020. So  Barclaycard did communicate with Mr D. I accept he argues that he 
didnt get these letters or see the statements  but as Ive said, I think its reasonable to say 
that Mr D had a responsibility to manage his account. 
Turning to the reduction in Mr Ds limit in 2017. Barclaycard can change customers limits if 
they wish to do so  thats in their card terms and conditions. Its not something we can 
interfere with as its their commercial decision if they do that  depending on their 
assessment of a customers circumstances.
I can see that Mr D feels strongly about his complaint and will therefore be disappointed by 
my decision  but Im not going to ask Barclaycard to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman