DRN-1484308
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc have failed to return funds he sent to a third-party 
beneficiary account. 
What happened
Mr S holds an account with Barclays and used funds in his account to purchase flights for a 
friend through a travel agency. He made three Faster Payments from his account to the 
travel agent, consisting of a £20 deposit and two further payments of £200 and £150. Mr Ss 
friend subsequently fell ill and was unable to take the flight, but the travel agency would not 
provide him with a refund. As such, he asked that Barclays recall the £370 in total that he 
had paid towards the flight.
Barclays explained that they could not recall the funds as they can only intervene in 
situations where the beneficiary is not known to the customer. And given that the travel 
agency was not willing to return the money, they said there was nothing more they could do. 
Mr S was unhappy with this and also complained that Barclays had only considered the 
payment of £150, and had failed to consider whether the remaining funds could be recalled.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly or 
that they were obliged to return the funds. Mr S disagreed, so the matter has been passed to 
me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
As Mr S authorised the transfer of funds from his account to a third-party beneficiary, there 
are only certain circumstances where Barclays can be expected to potentially recall the 
money. Faster Payments have issued guidance on the subject of misdirected funds which 
set out certain procedures payment service providers should adhere to in this regard. But 
these only apply in circumstances where:
A customer has made a payment in error;
Theres clear evidence of a genuine mistake;
The recipient doesnt dispute what happened; and
The money is still available.
In these circumstances, there was no payment error. Mr S intended to pay the travel agency 
for the flights at the time, and there was no mistake made as the payment was sent to the 
correct account. And the travel agency as the recipient has also declined to refund the 
money. As such, the Faster Payments guidelines for customers to recover payments sent in 
error do not apply here.
I appreciate that Mr S was not able to use the flight he had paid for. But Barclays cannot 
force the beneficiary to repay funds that have been properly paid under a contract for goods or services. And neither are they liable to return the money to Mr S in such circumstances. 
As such, this is seemingly a civil matter that he will need to take up with the beneficiary 
directly. 
Mr S is also unhappy that Barclays only referred to the £150 payment in their final response. 
I acknowledge that they may have made a mistake here as the total amount in dispute was 
£370. However, this does not change the outcome of this complaint as the same reasoning 
applies to all three payments sent by Mr S to the recipient. And although this may have been 
an error, it is not something that would warrant an award of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman