DRN-2327993
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Lex Autolease Ltd have invoiced him to pay an MOT penalty and 
associated costs. 
What happened
Mr B took out a regulated consumer hire agreement for a car with Lex Autolease in January 
2017. This was arranged by a broker.
In December 2019, Mr B says he called Lex Autolease to find out when the MOT of his car 
was due. He says he was told that he had missed the MOT due date, which was on 31 
October 2019. 
 
Lex Autolease then sent Mr B a motoring offence invoice to pay in the sum of £77.09  made 
up of £40 (DVLA fine); £12.09 (arrears of tax owed); and £25 (administration fee).
Mr B complained to Lex Autolease about this. In short, he said he shouldnt have to pay the 
invoice as Lex Autolease didnt make him aware that his car was due an MOT on 31 October 
2019.  He said he thought this wouldve been due three years from when the hire agreement 
started in January 2017. 
 
Lex Autolease investigated the complaint and decided that Mr B still had to pay the invoice.  
They said reminder emails about the MOT due date were sent to Mr B, but the broker had 
provided them with an incorrect email address. They explained that reminder emails are sent 
as a courtesy only, and that its Mr Bs responsibility as the driver of the car to ensure it had 
an MOT. Lex Autolease also said information about the MOT requirements of Mr Bs car 
were sent to him via his broker on 12 December 2016.
Unhappy with Lex Autoleases decision, Mr B referred his complaint to our service.  One of 
our investigators didnt uphold the complaint.  He said, having considered the terms of the 
hire agreement, he was satisfied that it was right for Lex Autolease to hold Mr B liable to pay 
the invoice. The investigator also said that the reminder emails were only an added extra 
and that there was nothing in the terms of the hire agreement which states Lex Autolease 
must notify Mr B when his MOT is due.  So, he didnt think it mattered that Lex Autolease 
were sending their reminders to an incorrect email address.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators findings, so he asked for an ombudsman to consider 
the case. In October 2020 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator, but for slightly different reasons. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that getting the MOT for the car was Mr Bs responsibility. He called Lex 
Autolease in December 2019, to find out when the MOT was due. Also, the first page of the 
hire agreement states no maintenance services are included within the agreement.
What is in dispute however, is whether Lex Autolease were obliged to notify Mr B that his 
MOT was due on 31 October 2019. Mr B says they were and their failure to do so caused 
him to miss the date, which means he shouldnt have to pay the penalty and associated 
costs. 
As a starting point, Ive considered the terms of the hire agreement. In doing so, there is 
nothing in it which states Lex Autolease are required to notify Mr B about the MOT due date. 
I agree that it is good practice for them to send reminders to their customers, as they 
typically do. But Im not persuaded they are obligated to do so under the terms of the hire 
agreement. Its unfortunate that the reminders went to the wrong email address. Ive not 
been able to establish with certainty, whether the incorrect email address was an error by 
Lex Autolease or if they were provided with the wrong email address as they say. But even if 
it could be shown that this was Lex Autoleases error, for the reasons Ill come to, it wouldnt 
change my opinion on the overall outcome of this complaint. 
Mr B points out that Lex Autolease write to him twice a month, once to invoice his monthly 
payment and again to acknowledge receipt of it. He questions why a reminder couldnt have 
been added to these letters rather than being sent by email? Ive considered this, but how 
businesses decide to communicate with their customers is a decision for the business 
concerned. And whilst I accept Mr B has made a reasonable suggestion, Im still not 
persuaded this is enough to mean that Lex Autolease become responsible for the car not 
having an MOT and the resultant fine. Ultimately, as the driver of the car, Mr B is responsible 
for ensuring it had an MOT. The law requires this. I accept that if Mr B had received the 
reminders from Lex Autolease, he likely would have arranged an MOT in time. But it doesnt 
follow that this relieves Mr B of his legal responsibility to ensure the car had an MOT.
There were various ways in which Mr B could have checked the date of first registration of 
his car and therefore found out when the first MOT was due. These include checking on the 
gov.uk website or asking Lex Autolease (as he did when he believed the MOT was imminent 
in December 2019). The information Mr B also received from his broker at the time of setting 
up the hire agreement made clear that the car was pre-registered and that it required an 
MOT at 3 years from the published taxation point. 
Ive seen the penalty notice sent to Lex Autolease in relation to Mr Bs car and the figures 
involved match those quoted above. The terms of Mr Bs hire agreement are clear that any 
such fines will be passed on to the hirer, along with a £25 admin fee. As such, I dont think 
Lex Autolease acted outside the terms of the agreement or unfairly, when passing these 
costs on to Mr B.
Lex Autolease didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr B responded to say he 
disagreed and was disappointed with the outcome. He included an email to evidence that his 
broker had the correct email address for him. 
Now both parties have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision why even if it could be shown that Lex Autolease were 
at fault for sending reminders to the incorrect email address  it wouldnt change my mind as 
to the outcome of this complaint. The email Mr B provided doesnt conclusively resolve this issue and I dont think we need to, 
to reach what I believe to be a fair outcome. And as neither party had any further comments 
or evidence for my consideration, I see no reason to deviate from the outcome explained in 
my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman