DRN-1633125
 
The complaint
Mr H says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 2000. The policy was taken out at 
the same time as Mr H applied for an Egg credit card. It gave him accident, sickness 
and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H says he was pressured into taking out PPI  he was young and it was one of his first 
financial agreements, so he trusted the bank. But Mr H applied for the PPI online, there's no 
record that he had any direct contact with the bank. And when he applied for the Egg credit 
card online he ticked a box on the screen indicating he wanted to take out PPI, agreeing with 
the statement that by ticking the box he was confirming hed read and agreed to the terms 
and conditions of the PPI. Options to select or decline PPI were set out with equal 
prominence on the screen. So, I think Canada Square Operations made it clear to Mr H the 
PPI was optional, and he agreed to take it out.
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H, so it didnt have to check if it 
was suitable for him. It was up to Mr H to decide whether the policy was right for him, 
bearing in mind his ability to make his credit card repayments if he was sick or lost his job.
Its possible Canada Square Operations didnt give Mr H all the information about the PPI 
that he needed before he made his decision. But Mr H chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations. The policy was fairly priced in the market and offered a competitive benefit level. 
If Mr H was sick the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, in addition to his work 
benefit of six weeks full pay. Mr H also said his family would have helped but thats not 
suitable alternative protection  its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change. 
Overall, I think it unlikely Mr H wouldve made a different decision if better information had 
been provided.It follows I don't think the policy was mis-sold. But Canada Square Operations has paid back 
some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
- Canada Square Operations got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) so it should have told Mr H about that. Because 
Canada Square Operations didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
- To put that right, Canada Square Operations has paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that 
is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold 
so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr H.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman