DRN-4036574
The complaint
Mr K has complained that when he made a claim under a Home Emergency insurance policy 
due to a leak in his home, the Home Emergency provider called him, but as Mr K was unable 
to get to the phone in time to answer it, the call out was cancelled. 
Mr K then had to take the following day off work so he was at home for the rearranged 
appointment, but no one turned up. A plumber then turned up on the following day to attend 
to the leak.
Mr K would like NatWest to pay for his loss of earnings and also pay compensation.  
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they explained that Mr K will need to 
raise a complaint with the product provider if he is unhappy with how the insurance claim 
was handled. The adjudicator therefore concluded that as the product provider is responsible 
for handling claims, NatWest had not done anything wrong.
Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to uphold this complaint.
Mr K has complained about how a Home Emergency claim was handled. Mr K insists that 
NatWest should be held responsible. Mr K insists that NatWest should be held responsible, 
as he pays a monthly fee to NatWest for a package of benefits that includes the Home 
Emergency cover. Mr K says there is no contractual relationship between him and the 
insurer.
However, I disagree with Mr K. It is standard industry practice that the underwriter of an 
insurance policy is contractually responsible for handling insurance claims - not the company 
who sold the policy.
To support this point, under the Home Emergency section of the Black Account benefits 
terms and conditions it says:
Introduction 
These Terms and Conditions apply to the Black Account Home Emergency Service, 
provided and underwritten by [name of insurer].
They go on to say:
Any references throughout the policy to we/our/us  means [name of insurer] 
and all our agents
As such Mr K is incorrect in saying there is no contractual relationship between him and the 
insurer. By having a packaged account, he in fact has a contractual relationship with a 
number of different insurance and non-insurance providers for the various benefits that it 
comes with. And as NatWest is not responsible for how the claim in question was handled, I 
cant reasonably hold it responsible for anything that the insurer mayve done (or not done) 
when handling the claim.
Therefore, I can only repeat what NatWest and the adjudicator have already said and say 
that if Mr K remains unhappy about how his insurance claim was handled, he will need to 
raise a complaint with the insurer.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman