DRN-1487246
 
The complaint
Mr A has complained about five loans he took out with Evergreen Finance London Limited 
(trading as MoneyBoat). He says the loans were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr A took out 5 loans from MoneyBoat between November 2017 and May 2019. Here is a 
summary of the borrowing:
loan Date lent Date repaid instalments amount repayment
1 24/11/2017 20/03/2018 4 200 77.16
2 20/03/2018 20/06/2018 3 200 96.77
3 25/09/2018 18/01/2019 4 200 76.51
4 22/01/2019 20/05/2019 4 200 77.64
5 22/05/2019 outstanding 4 200 78.41
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld. 
MoneyBoat didnt agree with the adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision. So, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr As complaint.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
A could repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have 
taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
MoneyBoat should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr A could sustainably repay the loans, not just whether the repayments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr A 
could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
MoneyBoat told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr A, including 
assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that the information it had, 
showed that Mr A would be able to sustainably make the loan repayments he was 
committing to. But I dont agree with this. 
MoneyBoat has provided to our service the results from its credit search that it carried out 
before it agreed to lend to Mr A his first loan. From what it would have been able to see from 
these, I think they clearly showed that Mr A had being recently borrowing quite heavily 
elsewhere. Mr A had 23 active accounts and 20 that had opened within the past 6 months. 
The credit search was a detailed one and listed out all of Mr As active accounts. At the point 
of loan 1, the search showed he had short-term loans outstanding with other providers as 
well as other longer-term financial commitments. In short, the information showed that Mr As 
stated outgoings ought to have been checked and verified to make sure they were right.
Ive thought about all this and whether it would have been obvious enough that Mr A was 
having difficulties in managing his money. And I think that having significant amounts of 
outstanding short-term loans  in this case there were 5 loans outstanding  would have 
shown that Mr A was having financial trouble. Our experience of short-term lending tells us 
that consumers who have difficulty managing their money are less likely to be able to 
sustainably repay loans. I therefore dont think MoneyBoat ought to have lent Mr A the 
money for loan 1 and for any loan after this point. I dont think it was responsible to do so.
MoneyBoat says its systems for granting loans was automated and also says the length of 
the lending relationship to Mr A was short and in its infancy. But having carried out searches 
and checks, MoneyBoat ought to have done something about them by acting on the 
information it saw. It shouldnt have lent Mr A the money for any of these loans and thats 
why Im upholding his complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr A, MoneyBoat should:
refund all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans 1- 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlementremove any negative information about loans 1  5 from Mr As credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr A a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint and I direct Evergreen Finance London Limited to put things right 
for Mr A as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman