DRN-3588218
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
engineers and others insofar as I hold British Gas responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
In about October 2010, a company other than British Gas installed a gas central heating 
boiler in Mr and Mrs Ws home. They say its manufacturer gave a warranty for ten years.
Notwithstanding the warranty, since 2010, Mr and Mrs W had a British Gas HomeCare 
agreement that covered the boiler. We categorise that as a home emergency insurance 
policy. But it covered more than emergencies. It covered an annual service. It also covered 
replacement of the boiler if it became unrepairable while it was less than seven years old.
In 2017, the boiler ceased to be less than seven years old.
The policy renewed for the year from late April 2020.
British Gas did its most recent annual service in July 2020.
In about October 2020, the boiler ceased to be less than 10 years old.
In March 2021, the boiler displayed an error code E9. So Mr and Mrs W contacted British 
Gas who made visits in mid-March 2021 and late March 2021, stopping a water leak that 
had caused corrosion to the main casing of the boiler.
The boiler again displayed error code E9.  British Gas visited again on 15 April 2021 and 
said the boiler was unsafe to use.
Mr and Mrs W complained to British Gas that it shouldve done more on its previous visits.
Mr and Mrs W paid £4,700.18 for the replacement boiler, flue and installation.
British Gas acknowledged the complaint in April 2021, but it didnt provide a final response 
within eight weeks. Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to us without delay. They said that 
British Gas should reimburse the £4,700.18.
By a final response dated 27 July 2021, British Gas declined to reimburse that cost. But it 
apologised for giving inconsistent information on the visits in March and April 2021 and said 
it was sending a cheque for £250.00. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
the boiler became unrepairable while it was covered for replacement under the policy or the 
warranty. She thought that offer of £250.00 compensation was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They say, in summary, that:
British Gas failed to service their old boiler properly in line with the manufacturers 
recommendations, including removal of the inner cover to inspect the heat 
exchanger.
Removal of the front panel of the inner case during the previous service would have 
revealed the water leaking from the automatic air vent and the start of the corrosion 
of the case before the corrosion perforated the case.
In March 2021, British Gas fixed the water leak by replacing the automatic air vent. It 
also replaced the front panel of the inner casing. British Gas didnt record these 
replacements on its checklists.
The checklist on 24 March 2021 said all was safe and in working order.
It has been suggested that the Error Code E9 and boiler shutdowns were caused 
by the failure to clean out the heat exchanger.
In April 2021, a different British Gas engineer showed them the corrosion of the inner 
case and how the new front panel was held on with sticky tape. He said this was 
unsafe because it allowed fumes to be released. British Gas had never before 
advised that the boiler should be replaced. 
The manufacturer still makes the model of the old boiler therefore all parts are 
available. British Gas chose not to get the parts.
British Gas refunded the cost of the policy for one year. This shows that it believed 
that the corrosion had started before annual service in July 2020 and that the service 
was inadequate. At that time the boiler and components were guaranteed by the 
manufacturer.
British Gas communicated poorly about the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint about regulated 
activities of a regulated financial firm. Where we uphold a complaint about an unfair act or 
omission, we look to compensate the impact on the consumer. For unfair and unsafe acts or 
omissions, we look to compensate the actual impact on the consumer, rather than what 
mightve happened. 
We dont assess compensation at a level to deter or punish unfair acts or omissions. Its not 
our role to direct a firm to change its procedures for other consumers.
I havent seen the manufacturers warranty or  crucially  its terms. So Im not persuaded 
that the manufacturer wouldve covered a replacement boiler if the old one had been found 
to be leaking water before October 2020.The British Gas policy terms have changed from time to time. But for some years, they have 
contained a term along the following lines:
One of our engineers will visit your home to complete your annual service. This 
will include testing the gases your appliance or boiler produces. If the visit shows 
that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart to adjust or clean it, well 
do so.
During the visit, our engineer will fill in a checklist that shows you exactly what weve 
looked at. If we find a problem or fault that needs to be fixed, well tell you about it.
The annual service has been defined as a check that the boiler is working safely.
Ive noted the manufactures recommendations, including to clean the heat exchanger. 
However, I keep in mind the policy terms and the checklists Ive seen. So I cant say that any 
of the visits before March 2021 showed that it was necessary to dismantle the boiler (or to 
open its inner casing) for the purpose of adjusting or cleaning it. And I cant say that British 
Gas treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly by not opening the boiler casing or cleaning the heat 
exchanger.
The British Gas terms have also included a term along the following lines:
Replacement parts
Well try to get parts from the original manufacturer or our approved suppliers. Well 
try to provide replacements with similar functionality but not necessarily the same 
features or an identical make and model or type of fitting .. Or you can give the 
engineer a replacement part that youve bought yourself, that we approve, but well 
only accept responsibility for our workmanship. If we cant get hold of the parts we 
may need to cancel your agreement (or part of it) 
So British Gas could cancel the policy (or at least the part relating to the boiler) if it couldnt 
get hold of replacement parts.
The British Gas terms have also included a term along the following lines:
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture 
or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless 
we caused it. For example damage caused by water leaks.
So British Gas said it wasnt responsible for a water leak unless British Gas caused it.
Its common ground that by March 2021, the boiler had been leaking water for some time. Mr 
and Mrs W believe that the leak started between about 2016 and 2018. But I consider that 
they bear the burden of showing a probability that the leak started before the visit in July 
2020 and that British Gas didnt do what it shouldve done on that visit.
But none of the British Gas annual service visits did uncover a leak. And in my view, Mr and 
Mrs W have fallen well short of showing that there was a leak that British Gas shouldve 
identified during an annual service visit.  In any event, Mr and Mrs W have fallen well short of 
showing that British Gas caused the leak or the corrosion. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct British Gas to contribute toward the cost of their new boiler.British Gas accepted that it gave inconsistent information in March and April 2021. One 
aspect of this was that in March a checklist said that all functional parts of the boiler were 
available, but in April a checklist said they werent. Mr and Mrs W say that all parts were 
available. But they didnt get someone to repair the old boiler. Rather they had a new boiler.
Mr and Mrs W have said that the way that the first engineer left the boiler was criticised by 
the second engineer. The have also criticised the first engineers record keeping. And the 
British Gas final response said that the part to repair the boiler wasnt available. So I find it 
more likely than not that the second engineer was correct that British Gas couldnt get hold 
of a replacement body or casing for the old boiler. 
Keeping in mind the policy terms, I consider that the British Gas refund was as a result of the 
unavailability of parts, rather than an admission of a poor annual service.
I consider that  by the inconsistent information - British Gas failed to manage Mr and Mrs 
Ws expectations. It left them open to the inconvenience of the repeated boiler issues they 
experienced. And it left them upset by the thought that from the visits in March to the visit in 
April, British Gas had left them with a boiler that was unsafe. I keep in mind Mr and Mrs Ws 
heath issues.
British Gas didnt respond to the complaint as promptly or as well as it shouldve responded.   
But its belated final response tried to put things right by sending a cheque for £250.00. 
And if British Gas had condemned the old boiler in March, then Mr and Mrs W wouldve had 
to pay for a new boiler earlier. 
Overall, I consider that the £250.00 was at least as much as I wouldve found fair if British 
Gas hadnt made such an offer. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to do 
any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman