DRN-4002849
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S took two loans and here is a brief loan table.
Loan Approved Amount Repayment and 
amountRepaid
1 5 November 2019 £400 6 x £114 
(rounded)27 April 2020
2 15 May 2020 £750 9 x £161 
(rounded)Collections
Shelby issued a final response letter in June 2022 after Mr S had complained and it did not
think that it had done anything wrong. Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman and one of our adjudicators considered it.
He carefully viewed the credit search results Shelby had obtained before lending. He did not
think that the complaint for loan 1 should be upheld but he did for loan 2. Shelby responded
to say that the points our adjudicator had made about the credit situation were not as bad as
he was depicting. Our adjudicator replied to explain further why he thought that the
complaint should be upheld for loan 2. Mr S seemed to agree with that.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. On 10 May 2023 I issued a 
provisional decision in which I gave reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. 
That is duplicated here in smaller type to differentiate it from this final decision. 
Duplicated provisional decision from 10 May 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about this type of lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amounts hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances.
Shelbys checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, such as how much
was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ss income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S.
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loan  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint.
As Mr S and Shelby seem to be of the same opinion about our adjudicators outcome for
loan 1 then that seems to have been resolved. I do not plan to review it.
As for loan 2, then I noticed that Shelby used an income of £1,360 at loan 1. And it did that
for loan 1 after Mr S had applied and declared an income after tax each month of £1,500 but
it reduced it to £1,360 after carrying out verification checks. The verification check at loan 2
resulted in Shelby using Mr Ss declared income figure of £1,560. So, it seems Mr Ss income
had increased a bit.
Mr S had declared outgoings of £885. Shelby has said to us 
We calculated you had a disposable income of £675.00. Your monthly payment for
the loan is £160.92 we limit the repayment amount to a maximum of 65% of the
disposable income, in your case the monthly payment only used 23.8% of your
disposable income
Shelby had done a credit search and I have carefully considered all the points our
adjudicator had identified. And there was nothing in that credit search report which leads me
to think that Shelby ought to have had concerns. Mr Ss debt level had increased a bit but not
by much. And the headline information was that he had about £5,700 of total debt which I do
not consider a high figure.
Our adjudicator focussed on some persistent arrears for a home credit loan and credit cards.
I know from experience that home credit lenders are rarely concerned if the customer is a
little in arrears  maybe stemming from paying a week late. And as Shelby has pointed out,
the arrears on this loan were always just an indicator of 1 behind, which is not unusual for
home credit loans.
And some of the credit card arrears were relatively low level and related to the summer of
2019 which was a year before Mr S applied for loan 2. So, I consider those to have been
largely irrelevant. And the more recent credit card arrears were earlier in 2020  the year
Mr S applied for loan 2.
For Mr S, my view is that the credit search Shelby carried out may have shown some
adverse entries but nothing that would have prompted Shelby either to decline the loan or
have carried out further investigatory research on Mr Ss financial position.Our adjudicator thought that reviewing of bank account statements may have been relevant
here but I disagree. For a second loan of a relatively modest sum to be repaid over a
relatively short period then Id not expect the lender to obtain bank statements before
lending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since my provisional decision was issued, Shelby has responded to say it has nothing 
further to add. Mr S has been reminded about the reply deadline (24 May 2023) and we 
have not received a response from him. 
In the circumstances, without anything further from either party, I have no reason to depart 
from the findings I made in my provisional decision and they are repeated here.
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman