DRN-3547859
The complaint
Mr B complained hed been unsuitably advised by Calculis Financial Planners Limited to
transfer benefits held in an Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) and a linked Additional
Voluntary Contribution (AVC) Scheme.
Calculis Financial Planners was an earlier name for Pegmos Limited; both sharing the same 
FCA number. Pegmos accept responsibility for this complaint. 
What happened
Mr B was advised to transfer his Defined Benefit OPS benefits and those held in his 
employers Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) plan (held with Zurich) to a Personal
Pension Plan (PPP) with Old Mutual Wealth.
The advice was provided by Pegmos. The information from Mr Bs OPS suggests he joined
the scheme on 1 July 1988 and left it on 7 February 2017. The scheme had a retirement
date at age 65 and it provided a 50% spouses/ dependants pension.
In 2017 Mr B and his partner met with a Pegmos adviser. In a document dated February 
2017 Mr B and his partners personal information is recorded by the Pegmos adviser. This 
document was updated later during 2017 by Pegmos. The advice and suitability report 
provided by Pegmos (dated September 2017) refers to having recorded information in April 
2017.
Starting with the personal information record for Mr B started in February 2017, it was 
recorded Mr B wanted to look at his options with his pension arrangements. At the time:
Mr B was aged 64 and living with his partner.
They jointly owned their home valued at £400,000.
Mr Bs partner had an income of £15,000.
Mr B had recently ceased his long-term employment (over 40 years employment was 
recorded) and related legal proceedings were ongoing. 
There was an update to Pegmos record in the early summer of 2017 that Mr B had 
been successful in his legal proceedings and was awaiting settlement. This 
information was further updated in the suitability report by which time it was said Mr B 
had received around £70,000.
In February 2017 it was recorded Mr B didnt intend to retire and after taking a short 
break (around a month), he was considering starting a self-employed project. 
Mr B expected an income of around £20,000 a year from this work; prior to this hed 
been earning a total annual income of £38-40,000. In mid-summer 2017 the record 
was updated that Mr B had started self-employment.
Mr B and his partner were existing Pegmos clients with ISAs. These had been started in 
2013. Mr Bs ISA had a value of just over £86,000 (with a starting lump sum investment of 
just over £72,000). His partners ISA had a value just over £13,000. Neither Mr B or his 
partner were making regular contributions.
On retirement it was said Mr B was hoping for an income of £23,000- £24,000 a year (in
addition to his state pension) and he hoped for a cash lump sum of around £25,000. Pegmos
recorded Mr B wanted flexibility in how he took his benefits and wanted to review death 
benefits in relation to his younger partner.
Mr B and his partner scored less than 5 out of 10 on the risk profile completed. It was set out 
that Mr B and his partner were happy to invest in line with this. Mr B was said to be willing to 
take an increased risk with the AVC pot. Pegmos recommended that an Old Mutual AVC 
met his needs better than his Zurich AVC plan. Pegmos said Mr Bs in-house AVC and their 
own balanced portfolio had shown similar performance over the previous years. Pegmos 
went on to tell Mr B their own adventurous portfolio had shown better returns than his in- 
house AVC over the previous five years (not invested with an adventurous risk profile).
The graph Pegmos used to demonstrate performance of the AVC and their portfolios was 
said to demonstrate the in-house AVC had increased volatility and Pegmos said this wasnt
in line with Mr Bs attitude to risk. The graph noted in smaller writing that this data hadnt 
included 12% of the AVC investment held in a diversified fund.
As at February 2017 a statement from Mr Bs OPS set out that Mr B would receive 
£19,715.05 (escalating) a year (with a dependants pension of just under £9,900) as at that 
date. The estimated pension at age 65 was £20,341.66 (escalating) and information on the 
dependents pension was also provided.
In February 2017, Mr Bs OPS provided a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£471,703. Mr Bs employers AVC plan transfer value around the same time was £57,669. 
By September 2017 there is reference to Mr Bs OPS having a CETV of £459,746 and his 
AVC £59,993; other values also are recorded.
August 2017
Pegmos provided a letter dated 4 August 2017 addressed to Mr B. This set out that Mr B 
had received full and regulated financial advice in relation to the transfer of his OPS and that 
he was aware he would lose any safeguarded benefits on transfer. It went on to say the 
advice has been in respect of the transfer of safeguarded benefits to flexible benefits. 
Mr B signed the document to authorise the transfer from his OPS on 31 August 2017. The
same date as the authorization signature by the Pegmos adviser.
Its not entirely clear how this letter from Pegmos fits into the chronology, as the advice and 
suitability report is dated September 2017.
Pegmos Financial planning report dated September 2017
Weve been provided with Pegmos Financial planning report dated September 2017. In this 
report transfer values were given for Mr Bs two employee pension arrangements:
Defined benefit OPS: Cash equivalent transfer value of just under £520,000.
The OPS contained a guaranteed minimum pension and details about annual 
escalation rates were provided.
Employee AVC: Fund and transfer value of just under £60,000.The AVC was managed by Zurich and was invested in six funds, with no apparent 
penalty on transfer.
The September report records Mr B recent payment from his ex-employer. At this stage 
Pegmos recorded Mr Bs priorities and objectives, including:
Working until retirement age
To understand his options and calculation of his expected income in retirement
Receive regular reviews
Potentially benefit from the flexibility afforded under the new pension freedoms
Approach to investment risk
Mr Bs attitude to risk continued to be assessed as being five out of ten; this was said to 
match to Pegmos cautious portfolio. Pegmos report says they discussed that Mr B would 
benefit from a more adventurous approach to investment and that the portion of Mr Bs 
retirement benefits contained in his AVC would be invested in their Growth portfolio to meet 
this more adventurous approach. This was said to usually be appropriate for someone with 
an attitude to risk of seven out of ten. Pegmos said this investment would be reviewed after 
a year.
Capacity for loss
In respect of Mr Bs capacity for loss, Pegmos dont appear to have fully assessed this 
against Mr Bs circumstances. Pegmos went on to record Mr B said hed be concerned by a 
drop of more than 10% in a year; but that he accepted a short-term loss due to market 
volatility wouldnt have a material effect on his standard of living.
Report on OPS
Pegmos reported Mr Bs OPS was a well-established scheme that provided guaranteed, 
inflation-linked pension benefits (subject to certain limits) plus an optional Pension 
Commencement Lump Sum which was tax free. They acknowledged the general approach
to such schemes, especially when they appear to be meeting minimum solvency 
requirements, like this one. Is that any transfer out is NOT a good thing.
Pegmos went on to say the scheme and its benefits appeared secure for the time being, 
and, whilst many pension transfers have an "emotional element" this should not detract from
making a considered decision. It is impossible to replace the sort of guaranteed benefits 
that this scheme provides via any form of private or personal pension arrangement, and 
once a transfer out has occurred the benefits cannot be reinstated and any future investment
losses in a replacement arrangement cannot be undone.
Pegmos report says it attempts to fully outline Mr Bs existing scheme benefits in order that
he may make a considered judgement. The report set out information on the investment 
return required to match the value of the benefits given up under the OPS, the "Critical 
Yield"; and explained this would often be key to a decision as to whether to whether 
someone ought to decide to proceed to transfer.
Pegmos report told Mr B that because he was within one year of the OPS retirement age, 
they werent able to produce a full Retirement Transfer Analysis Report showing a critical
yield. Pegmos said this meant they could only base their advice on retirement models. 
Pegmos went on to explore what this might mean on the assumption the fund was transferred and invested achieving yearly growth of 6% (before charges). Pegmos told Mr B 
the rate of future increases in the OPS were unknown, as they were largely linked to 
changes in inflation and so may be higher or lower than this.
The report went on to suggest Mr Bs intention was not to match scheme benefits and the
main reasons for moving the monies are:
to give you greater control over how and when you draw the income
 to provide improved and more flexible death benefits
On the assumption that you take a level income.
Mr Bs complaint
Mr Bs representatives made a complaint to Pegmos on his behalf. 
Pegmos response to Mr Bs complaint
Pegmos rejected Mr Bs complaint. Overall they said theyd told Mr B what they were
required to and this was evidenced by their suitability report. They made a number of points 
and referred to various documents. They also thought Mr Bs representatives had relied on 
submissions that were inaccurate.
Pegmos said Mr B had known he was losing guaranteed benefits by transferring. They relied
on Mr B signing a confirmation slip they said had accompanied their suitability (advice) 
report confirming his understanding (October 2017) and hed never raised any concerns to
them.
Pegmos considered they had provided information on the OPS benefits and alternative
options to a transfer to a personal pension plan (PPP) in their suitability report. They 
suggested their advice was sound, as Mr Bs pension objectives would not have been
met if hed not transferred. Pegmos rejected the suggestion theyd failed to reach the
regulators requirements regarding the starting point on this type of work and the only
situations where a transfer ought to be recommended.
They didnt accept Mr B had not wanted to take any risk with his pension arrangements.
Pegmos considered they knew Mr B sufficiently having known him since 2013 when he
started the ISA and hed met with their adviser for this work and had a fact find completed.
Pegmos said it was wrong to suggest theyd received a £5,000 fee. Whilst this had been
initially proposed and agreed by Mr B, an adviser had gone on to waive this fee. 
Investigators view
An investigator at this service thought Mr Bs complaint ought to be upheld as the advice to
transfer OPS benefits had been unsuitable. The investigator referred to the regulators
approach. They thought that taking account of Mr Bs age and the significance of the OPS to
Mr Bs pension plans, there had needed to be a significant chance for Mr B to improve on his
OPS benefits to recommend the transfer. This hadnt been the case with Mr B.
The investigator accepted what Mr B had told us about his reliance on the adviser and his
thinking. The investigator went on to set out the redress proposed and that Pegmos ought to
also pay Mr B £300 to represent the distress and inconvenience caused here.
Mr B accepted the investigators view. Pegmos did not.
Pegmos responsePegmos provided a number of detailed reasons as to why they didnt agree. In summary:
Mr B had a good relationship with the adviser, and he was now just trying his luck.
Pegmos pointed to matters they considered errors in the investigators view.
This included noting that although a £5,000 fee had originally been agreed, this had 
been waived by the adviser who took over Mr B as a client and had never been 
taken. Pegmos accepted a letter confirming this ought to have been provided but 
repeated that the provider would confirm no fee was paid.
Mr Bs intention to start working on a self-employed basis was one of the main 
reasons he required a cash injection; and this was what hed gone on to do.
Mr B was an investment client of Pegmos since October 2013. We were told more 
about this.
Mr B first became a client in 2014 when we advised him regarding his existing 
investments... [ they analyzed the] holdings with the result that they came out at 7/10 
and 6/10 respectively. Neither of these portfolios could be described as low risk. [One 
was]  a client-controlled platform and Mr B was responsible for choosing his 
investment funds. Mr B clearly had experience of investing.
I previously indicated I didnt intend to make any findings in respect of this, unless invited, 
which I have not been. I acknowledge the fact-find report completed on Mr B highlighted he 
had no assets apart from the 2013 ISA.
Mr B demonstrated in his attitude to risk questionnaire that he was prepared to take a 
level of risk.
Pegmos stress Mr B might have said hed be scared about managing his pension 
fund, but that didnt mean he wasnt an experienced investor who had previously self-
managed a number of different investments.
Full information regarding Mr Bs existing scheme benefits had been provided to him. 
The benefits available under the existing scheme were fully explained in the 
Suitability Report along with other alternative options.
As Mr B isnt married, the decision about whether his partner would be accepted by 
the OPS trustees as a dependent was not clear, as it would be at the trustees 
discretion. The PPP allowed Mr Bs children to be beneficiaries, if Mr B and his 
partner died, this was an additional benefit which he wanted.
Pegmos set out the regulators starting point on OPS transfers and addressed the 
importance of critical yield in their report.
The OPS guaranteed pension was less than Mr B required and would have been 
reduced further if a cash sum was accessed. Mr B wanted to exceed the benefits 
offered by his OPS, as the guaranteed benefits werent sufficient for his 
requirements.
Its supposition to conclude Mr B would have achieved his desired income if he had remained in his OPS. They say the OPS sums alone only offered between 81.3- 
85.7% of the sum he wanted.
Mr B had nearly three weeks between being sent his suitability report on 15 
September and signing an acknowledgement of understanding and agreement with 
the report on 5 October 2017. Its implied this was sufficient time for him to reflect 
and Pegmos say he would not have gone ahead if he didnt think it met his 
objectives.
By moving to a PPP, Mr B was in a position of increased flexibility that was a benefit to him.
Although Pegmos didnt have access to the full records for Mr B, they confirmed the 
following information:
Amount invested £519,967.27
Lump Sum Withdrawals £50,000.00
Regular Withdrawals £49,248.00
Net Investment £420,719.29
Value at date of leaving Calculis £427,700.82
Pegmos say there was a gain of £6,981.55 after all withdrawals.
Investigators further thinking
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her thinking, but she provided further detail.
She added that Mr B could have obtained a cash sum given how close he was to taking
OPS benefits or could have explored other options and still have retained his deferred
benefits. It doesnt appear the investigator was aware Mr B was due or had received the 
settlement sum from his legal case before the transfer when she replied to Pegmos.
The investigator continued to think the benefits offered by the OPS outweighed the
submissions made by Pegmos. She continued to think the costs associated and growth
required to match benefits, meant the transfer was unsuitable for Mr B.
Further submissions from Pegmos
Pegmos provided further submissions; again, in summary:
Pegmos suggested Mr B was only involved in legal proceedings when they advised 
him, there was no guarantee he would win. Pegmos thought the investigator had 
relied on hindsight. They didnt think other alternatives were sensible.
I previously indicated Id seen Pegmos personal record on Mr B was updated in early 
summer 2017 that Mr B had won the legal proceedings and was awaiting the settlement 
payment. The advice report of September 2017 records hed received the settlement. This 
submission was not pursued further by Pegmos.
Pegmos continued to think Mr B had been properly informed and suitably advised.
Mr B was put in the position of achieving the level of income he wanted, not just 
close to it.
Their 0% initial fee and 1% ongoing charge are extremely low compared to usual 
adviser costs. It was suggested Mr B was determined to transfer whatever.Additional information
Mr Bs representatives let us know Mr B transferred away from Old Mutual. [We were 
originally told this was to a Transact SIPP, but this was clarified following my first provisional 
decision]. We werent told prior to my first provisional decision when or how the further 
transfer happened, if he was advised, nor what investments were made or his current 
position.
First provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 31 March 2022. In it I indicated I intended 
(subject to further information and submissions) to uphold Mr Bs complaint. It didnt appear 
to me the advice was suitable for Mr B in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr B had 
valuable preserved benefits in his OPS forming an important part of his retirement planning 
and he was close to being able to take benefits from the scheme. Having taken account of 
his circumstances at the time I didnt think Mr B was suitably advised to transfer and lose the 
preserved and guaranteed benefits from his OPS. Nor did it appear to me there was any 
need or benefit to Mr B to transfer funds from his AVC plan.
However, there were areas where I required further information to conclude my thinking and 
in respect of proposed redress. I set out further detail on this.
Second provisional decision
I issued a further provisional decision on 29 May 2022, in this I indicated I hadnt changed 
my thinking and intended to uphold the complaint. I also set out more information on what I 
intended to say Pegmos would need to do.
We also ensured further information provided was shared. Information had been provided by 
third parties in addition to Pegmos and Mr Bs representatives. I provided a brief summary of 
some of the further information provided.
Information from Mr Bs representatives
Mr B transferred the arrangements put in place by Pegmos to a Transact Personal 
pension having been advised by a new adviser and this is managed by the adviser.
Letter about the OPS regarding the request to transfer dated 25/8/2017 and further 
information around this. This confirmed the plan had a guaranteed minimum pension 
(GMP) and the guaranteed transfer value from the OPS had a deadline of 
25/11/2017; and that Mr Bs Zurich AVC had been started on 1/3/1999.
The Old Mutual Collective retirement account transaction history, with a start date of 
31/10/2017. By 4 April 2019 the account had no value. 
Information from Transact, including Mr Bs statements from January 2019 to May 
2022. This includes information about transfers in and withdrawals. 
Information from Pegmos
Mr Bs in-house AVC commenced on 1 March 1999 and was managed by Zurich. The fund 
information was provided. Pegmos were unable to confirm the historic charging information. 
The charges in respect of the plan held with Old Mutual Wealth were provided.The initial fee of £5,000 was waived following a conversation with Mr B. Pegmos provided a 
transaction history confirming the only fees taken were on-going adviser fees (totalling 
£747.84).
Information on the in-house AVC 
Mr Bs AVC/ scheme AVCs were invested in the Cash Lifestyle fund. The investments were 
held until 21st September 2017. At that point the funds were sold in order to process the 
transfer away. There were no additional charges or fees applied to this transfer; Pegmos did 
not receive any fees from them.
Information from Old Mutual (also provided by Mr Bs representatives)
Mr B held two Old Mutual collective retirement accounts. Both had an adviser fee of 1% a 
year paid in monthly instalments. There appears to have also been an ISA.
The first account was started in October 2017 with a payment in of £459,746. In November 
2017 Mr B took just under £50,500 in tax free cash. He thereafter started taking a taxable 
income of £1,154.25 each month as well as a tax-free sum of £384 each month. For the 
period until March 2018 the adviser was paid £1,692.82 as the servicing fee and there was a 
product charge of £438.99.
The second account was started in October 2017 with a payment in of £60,221. For this 
period the adviser was paid £250.97 and there was a product charge of £65.09.
We have further statements covering the entire period until the last statement finishing in 
July 2019. Throughout this time Mr B continues to make regular monthly withdrawals from 
one of his collective retirement accounts, as well as regular charges/ fees being applied.
Responses to second provisional decision
Mr B accepted my second provisional decision through his representatives. Pegmos did not 
respond. Im satisfied we have given Pegmos sufficient opportunity to respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything, I am not persuaded to change my thinking on Mr Bs complaint and I 
adopt what I said in my second provisional decision. Overall I dont think the advice Mr B 
received on transfer was suitable here, and had he been suitably advised, on balance, I 
dont think the transfer would have proceeded.
Im required, under DISP 3.6.4R, when considering what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case, to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of all the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I take 
into account relevant laws and regulations as well as the regulators rules, guidance, and 
standards.I come to my conclusions on the basis of the evidence Ive seen; this of course includes
what the parties say about what happened. And, where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other
words, what I think is most likely to have happened, taking into account the available
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr B had valuable preserved benefits in his OPS. These benefits represented a significant 
part of his retirement planning and he was within a year of the OPS retirement age. Although 
Mr B was not planning to retire immediately, his employment status had changed and was 
continuing to change significantly. 
I dont accept Mr B had a pressing need for funds; and even if he did, he had substantial 
alternative and more suitable options, which were not explored sufficiently (if at all) by 
Pegmos. Taking account of Mr Bs circumstances at the time I dont think it was suitable 
advice to transfer and lose the preserved and guaranteed benefits from the OPS. 
I appreciate that during the early part of 2017 Mr B might have been feeling financially 
vulnerable and concerned, Ive seen whats said about Mr B being determined to transfer. 
However his circumstances changed by the summer and early autumn, and prior to the 
suitability report being produced and transfer proceeding. This would also not remove the 
onus on Pegmos to provide suitable advice. I dont think theres enough here for me to say 
that even if hed been advised against transfer he would have elected to proceed. On 
balance I tend to think, that had Mr B been suitably advised the transfer would not have 
proceeded.
I dont consider the reasons relied on by Pegmos to support Mr Bs transfer are made out,
nor were they in his best interests. I dont accept giving up the OPS benefits to enable Mr B 
to access funds was suitable (or necessary) here, and I am left with the impression this was 
at the centre of the advice. The regulator explained the starting point when an adviser is 
considering whether or not to transfer a defined benefit pension plan, it said:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion
or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or
opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the
transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests. (COBS 19.1.6).
The starting point is to assume it is unsuitable, unless it can be clearly demonstrated it was 
in Mr Bs best interests. Pegmos fail at the first hurdle here. I dont accept it was in his best 
interests. There is nothing that leads me to accept Mr B identified a pressing need for funds. 
Even if he had done, and I accept starting his new self-employed business might come with 
additional costs, Mr B had enough alternative options. To give up the valuable and 
guaranteed benefits reflecting a substantial length of service ought to have been the very 
last option; here I dont accept other options were adequately advised upon or considered.
Mr B was so close to retirement age that a critical yield could not be assessed. This ought to
have made Pegmos even more cautious when reviewing, let alone recommending a
transfer. I agree with the investigator in general terms, the preserved benefits under the OPS
suggested Mr B were not far off where he wanted to be in terms of pension income. Im not
persuaded by the suggestion that because the OPS might not precisely provide the sum
discussed with Pegmos, this made a transfer suitable. I dont consider there was any
reasonable likelihood Mr Bs fund on transfer would be able to match, let alone exceed his
preserved benefits in such a short period as was required, even if, as Pegmos say, they did
not take the initial advice fee. This is something I dont consider was dealt with sufficiently byPegmos in their report. In any event Mr B apparently anticipated swiftly achieving an income 
from his new employment and would have also been in a position to supplement any 
potential small shortfall in required pension income from the OPS from other sources. This 
aspect was simply inadequately considered, and the overall advice was not suitable for Mr 
B.
Some of Pegmos submissions have been to the effect that Mr B wanted to significantly
exceeded the benefits provided by his OPS and their advice would have enabled him to do
so. As a member of a final salary scheme Mr Bs benefits werent dependent on investment
returns but on his pensionable service and salary and were in effect guaranteed. To make
the losing of such benefits potentially suitable, I would expect to see, for example, a real
likelihood that Mr Bs benefits on transfer would be significantly improved to make such a
loss to be in his best interests. I dont consider taking account of Mr Bs age and when he
intended to take benefits, this was something that could ever have been reasonably likely to
be achieved. Ive seen whats said about Mr B wanting greater control over his investment 
and pension. I am not persuaded this is an accurate reflection of Mr B and his priorities at 
the time.
Ive also seen whats said about Mr B being an experienced investor, but this doesnt 
persuade me to change my overall thinking. It was reasonable for Mr B, given what Ive seen 
on his experience and circumstances, to have relied on the advice of Pegmos. Theres 
nothing that makes me think he would have been in a position to challenge the advice he 
was given in a sufficiently informed manner. I dont consider that if Pegmos had advised 
against the transfer, but had, for example identified alternative retirement planning and 
accessing cash sums, it was more likely than not, that Mr B would have insisted on going 
ahead with the transfer against advice.
Its suggested Mr B obtained the benefit of being able to make provision for his children as
well as his partner on transfer. I accept Mr B completed his expression of wishes to indicate 
a small portion to be split between his children, but its sufficiently clear his main priority 
when it came to death benefits was his long-term partner, who is younger than him. Whilst it 
is right to note the ultimate decision about whether an OPS will pay out death benefits to any
dependant lies with the trustee of the scheme, there is nothing to suggest here, that Mr Bs 
partner might be considered differently or as an exception. I dont accept this was such a 
substantial benefit to Mr B or meeting such a pressing priority (for a man who was so close 
to accessing his OPS benefits in any event) as to make the advice suitable.
I previously noted a potential inconsistency with the submissions made on apportionment of 
death benefits against what was actually put in place. I havent received further submissions 
on this, and I dont consider it takes matters any further.
By June 2017, it was known Mr B would be receiving a lump sum from his legal proceedings. 
If there was a need, and I not persuaded Mr B did have a pressing need for a cash sum 
within any particular time frame, this would have been an relatively imminent source of 
funds; putting aside Mr Bs other assets, or the possibility of a short-term loan. By the time of 
Pegmos report in September 2013 Mr B had apparently received the settlement lump sum. 
However, the intended use of the lump sum settlement wasnt apparently taken into account 
or considered.
For completeness although the forms signed by the adviser on 31/8/2017 set out the £5,000 
fee to Pegmos and the 1% servicing fee to be paid monthly to Pegmos, I accept Mr B did not 
pay a fee of £5,000 to Pegmos for the advice. It isnt suggested that Pegmos were motivated 
by financial gain in making their recommendations to Mr B.Ive seen whats said about Mr Bs attitude to risk. This makes it even less likely that a 
transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. Mr B was characterised by Pegmos as a person who is 
open to risk and chance. I havent seen anything to support these submissions.
I previously expressed my gratitude to all parties for their assistance in providing the further 
information I requested. I was somewhat surprised to see Mr B taking a regular monthly 
income following the transfer. I did consider this aspect carefully and took it into account 
when thinking about Mr Bs personal objectives and intentions. It did weaken the 
persuasiveness of some elements of his complaint. But ultimately it didnt mean I was able to 
conclude Pegmos had provided suitable advice, in-line with the guidance of the regulator. I 
remain unclear on what happened to the settlement payment.
For completeness, in respect of Mr Bs in-house AVC, I havent been provided with the full 
terms, but I continue to be unpersuaded this transfer was necessary or in Mr Bs interests. It 
might have been necessary as Mr B was transferring his OPS. This itself was unsuitable, so 
I continue to consider the advice to transfer the in-house AVC and OPS were both 
unsuitable transfers for Mr B, such as to mean Pegmos are required to complete a redress 
exercise.
Overall, the transfers represented Mr Bs entire pension provision at the time. Regardless of
what other retirement savings Mr B was able to make, the benefits hed accrued in the OPS
and his AVC would form a significant proportion of his pension benefits when he came to
retire. I cant see, given its accepted that he had a low to medium risk approach, that hed
have wanted to take any significant degree of risk with the benefits hed accrued. And I dont
see that he had any real capacity for loss when it came to these benefits.
Transferring meant that Mr B took on investment risk which I dont think he wanted or was in
a position to accept. And Im not convinced that Mr B was given enough information to make
a fully informed decision to transfer his benefits. The paperwork around how and when the
advice was given is inconsistent. Wed expect Mr B to have been given sufficient, clear
information to make an informed investment decision, based on a firm understanding of the
risks involved and a knowledge of what protection, rights, expectations, and options he was
giving up. Even where information was provided, Pegmos still had an overriding duty to 
provide suitable advice. Suitable advice here appears more likely to have involved indicating 
that a transfer was unlikely to allow Mr B to achieve his income goals and that alternative 
sources of cash could be more suitably identified.
Putting things right
What Pegmos must do
OPS transfer
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Pegmos must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision. It will also reflect the 
withdrawals Mr B has had the benefit of.Pegmos may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
Pegmos receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Pegmos to pay Mr B.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pegmos deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Pegmos should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
In-house AVC transfer
My intention is to put Mr B as close as to the position he would be in if he had not received 
the unsuitable advice. It isnt clear to me whether Mr B would have been required to transfer 
from his in-house AVC held with Zurich, on transferring his OPS arrangement, or whether it 
would have been considered paid up. 
As Ive previously set out, I dont accept the reasons provided to transfer from Zurich to Old 
Mutual at the time were persuasive. I havent seen any adequate charges comparison and I 
consider it more likely than not, that Zurich would have been able to offer suitable investment 
choices, if any adjustment of Mr Bs investments had been required, which I am not 
persuaded was needed here. 
So whether the transfer took place because of the unsuitable advice provided on the OPS 
transfer or in respect of the AVC alone, the consequence was the same. Mr Bs in-house 
AVC was unsuitably transferred. I have sought further information on charges to assist, but 
the absence of this information this doesnt prevent me from reaching my decision about 
how any loss ought to be identified and dealt with for Mr B.I consider it appropriate here to conduct a loss calculation exercise as follows. If any loss is 
established this will need to be paid to Mr B taking account of the assumption I consider 
appropriate here in respect of tax (20%). Subject to any further submissions, I intend to 
require Pegmos to undertake the following redress exercise on the AVC transfer.
Pegmos will need to calculate the notional value of Mr Bs in-house Zurich AVC if he had not 
transferred away and had remained invested as he was prior to transfer. This value ought to 
be calculated up to the date of calculation, here the date Mr B transferred out of the Old 
Mutual plan arranged by Pegmos in 2019.
This notional value will need to be adjusted for all charges and fees that would have been 
applicable and take account of any withdrawals, distributions of capital or income payments 
that Mr B made. 
This notional value ought to be compared with the actual value. The actual value being the 
value of Mr Bs Old Mutual plan as at the date of calculation, here the date Mr B transferred 
out in 2019 (prior to the application of any early redemption, transfer or adviser fees or 
charges). 
My understanding is the funds from the Zurich AVC were transferred into the Old Mutual 
plan and were not mixed with any other funds or supplemented by any other investments or 
payments in. If I am wrong about this, the proportion of the value of the actual value 
represented by the funds transferred in from the Zurich plan ought to be calculated.
I am satisfied its fair to use the value at the date Mr Bs Old Mutual plan was transferred. 
This was a reasonable and fair time to identify and crystallize any loss, prior to the 
involvement of the new adviser. I dont consider a new adviser was required to put right any 
errors in respect of the AVC transfer, as my primary concern around this transfer is any 
charges comparison.
If the notional value is higher than the actual value, then Mr B has suffered a loss for which 
he will need to be compensated by Pegmos. If the actual value is higher, then Mr B did not 
suffer a loss and no compensation is payable.
If a loss is identified I consider interest ought to be applied to any sum identified from the 
calculation date in 2019 to the date of settlement. Interest is to be paid at the rate of 8% a 
year simple until the date of settlement.
The calculation of any investment loss needs to take into account amounts paid out by way 
of withdrawals, distributions of capital, or income paid before tax. Pegmos should ensure 
their calculations properly reflect the history of the investment  involving a series of 
calculations to allow for regular or non-regular withdrawals, as and when they were made. 
Pegmos should not deduct all the withdrawals upfront before calculating the return. Instead, 
they need to make a series of calculations  each one reflecting income withdrawn at a 
different time. I say this because although the advice did not appear to be about Mr B 
achieving regular income payments, this is what took place as soon as the 2017 transfer 
was completed, and as such I think this was part of agreement between Mr B and Pegmos.
There were a number of regular income payments on top of the payment of a tax-free lump 
sum. To keep the calculation simpler, its acceptable for Pegmos to first calculate the 
compensation without taking away the regular payments  and then reduce this amount by 
the total income payments. Pegmos should not take away the income payments first before 
calculating the return.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed 
to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
A copy of the calculation ought to be provided to Mr B in a clear and simple format.
Distress and inconvenience
The investigator recommended Pegmos pay Mr B a sum of £300 to reflect his distress and 
inconvenience. Mr B has been represented in his complaint and as such I have considered 
whether it would be appropriate to make an award, having balance everything carefully, I 
intend to say Pegmos must pay Mr B £300 to reflect his inconvenience here.
Fair Compensation
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: 
I require Pegmos to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Pegmos 
to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Pegmos to pay 
Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: 
If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that Pegmos pays Mr B 
the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this 
balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Pegmos. My recommendation is 
not binding on Pegmos. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.My final decision
For the reasons given I am upholding Mr Bs complaint against Pegmos Ltd. 
Pegmos are required to complete the redress exercises set out above. They are also 
required to pay Mr B £300 to represent his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman