DRN-1906689
The complaint
Mr R complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has poorly handled a claim he made 
under his home insurance.
What happened
Mr Rs initial subsidence claim to UKI was in 2009. Since then our service has considered a 
number of complaints about what has happened since. This complaint is about UKIs actions 
in relation to four specific issues. 
Mr R has said a number of water damaged items were returned to him as part of the 
claim, and were left outside his home. He said these items caused rust damage to the 
rear patio. UKI said it wasnt responsible for any subsequent rust damage and requested 
further evidence to support how the rust marks were caused.
Mr R says UKI should award him a sum to cover the material costs of printing emails and 
correspondence that he has kept as history of the claim. UKI said there was no cover 
under the policy for these types of costs.
Mr R said UKI should provide him with a sum to cover the cost of potential lost rent had 
he chosen to rent his property. He said this was to the value of £1,400  £1,450 and 
wasnt possible because of concerns about safety. UKI said the home was still habitable 
and the subsidence had only affected the garage and conservatory and hadnt been 
unsafe as he suggested.
As part of the claim, Mr Rs home needed some electrical works to be completed. UKI 
said the independent engineer (IE) overseeing the works had cash settled for 
Mr R to use his own nominated contractor.
Mr R said the original builders (Company A) had instructed their own subcontractors to 
carry out the electric works, and had done a poor job. As a result he said the IE paid Mr 
R to complete part of the works himself on the basis Company A would provide an 
electrical certificate for him afterwards  but it didnt do this.
Mr R says since then, the IE provided him with £300 to source a different contractor  
Company B  to test the works. Having done so they found issues with both the works 
carried out by Company A and Mr R. UKI said it would agree to the costs incurred as a 
result of Company As subcontractor upon receipt of an invoice, but not the cost of the 
works completed himself (around £400 plus VAT).
Mr R brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into what 
happened. She said UKI hadnt instructed or advised Mr R keep rusting items on the patio, 
so it wasnt responsible for any related damage. She said UKI had no responsibility to pay 
for paper and ink costs under the policy so didnt expect it to cover these.
The investigator said the works remaining in the property at the time Mr R has said he 
wouldve rented the property were snagging issues. So while he may have been reluctant to 
rent the home, theres nothing to suggest this wouldnt have been possible. As UKI hadnt 
commented on the electrics initially the investigator requested further information.
Mr R responded to say he had no other option but to store his items on his patio as the 
garage floor space was full  so UKI should take responsibility for the damage. He said the 
length of the claim (ongoing since 2009) necessitated clear record keeping which UKI should 
help him with. And it wasnt reasonable to rent a property with the issues that had been 
outstanding, and he felt a letting agent wouldnt deem the property to be safe to occupy. Mr 
R also said he shouldnt be penalised by UKI luring him into a false sense of security about 
carrying out the works himself.
UKI provided a statement from the IE who said Mr R had proposed carrying out works 
himself, and had said his contractor would certify the works. However, he said as Mr R had 
been paid directly for these works Company A didnt agree to certify them. He said further 
testing established inadequate earth bonding within the property alongside poor works 
carried out by Mr R. So he said the bonding work would be covered, but not the cost of re-
doing works that Mr R had already been paid for.
Our investigator considered all of Mr Rs points and didnt change her mind. She said shed 
considered Mr Rs emails with the IE and highlighted Mr R had said he would have his own 
electrician sign them off. Overall UKI had agreed to all the electric costs bar those carried 
out by Mr R which she said was fair.
Mr R disagreed and reiterated his concerns. So the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for broadly the same reasons our 
investigator has previously explained.
Rust marks on patio
Mr R has said rust damage was caused to his rear patio after he stored bulky items on it 
thatd kept in storage for a long time. And hes said there was nowhere else to store them so 
this was a consequential loss of UKIs actions. 
Its clear to me the decision to place whichever items caused this damage to Mr Rs patio 
was his own. And while he has said there was no other location for him to store these items 
as he had other belongings within his garage and elsewhere, I dont agree this situation 
should extend to UKIs liability for a choice he has made. Ink and paper costs
Mr R has highlighted he has amassed a number of ring binders full of documents to keep 
records of whats happened with this claim over its life. Having looked at the policy carefully, 
theres no cover under the insurance for this type of cost. And I wouldnt expect UKI to cover 
these expenses as its his choice on how to keep his records. 
Rental income
Mr R has said UKIs mistakes across the life of the claim have meant he couldnt safely rent 
out his property. And in response to our investigators view, hes said no tenant would want 
to live in a house where they could not use the garage or conservatory, or rusty items sitting 
on a patio. UKI said the home was habitable, with snagging works remaining in the garage 
and conservatory.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr R has said, but hes given no evidence to support that 
he tried to rent the property and this wasnt possible  only speculative comments about 
what may have happened. I dont doubt that items and belongings left around the home 
wouldnt be appealing to a tenant, but again I cant see that UKI should be responsible for 
the storage of his items once they were returned to him. So, based on what Ive been given, 
Im not persuaded it wasnt possible for Mr R to rent the home if he had wished to do so. It 
follows Im not directing UKI to cover any lost rent as a result. 
Electric works
As our investigator has outlined, UKI has agreed to cover the costs of all of the electric 
works with the exception of those carried out by Mr R himself. Its not in dispute he was 
unable to provide a relevant safety certificate for the works and they werent of acceptable 
quality. So this is what Ive considered. 
Mr R said if the electrics were such a complex safety problem, then the IE shouldnt have 
allowed him to have control over it knowing hes a layman and not a qualified electrician. 
Having looked at the emails our investigator has discussed previously, its clear this idea 
was suggested by Mr R himself and that he said he would be able to provide a certificate. 
This suggests to me there would be involvement of a professional overseeing or at least 
signing off the work. But Mr R wasnt able to provide a certificate and the works were poorly 
done. So Im satisfied its fair for UKI to decline the costs of re-doing this work, as hed been 
paid directly for job previously on his own request. And had he not taken this action, UKI 
couldve arranged the work itself. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman