DRN-2789185
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about one of his buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage accounts with Barclays Bank 
UK Plc. Mr T is unhappy that, after the Law of Property Act Receivers (LPARs) handed the 
property back to Barclays in January 2020, Barclays has taken no action either to sell the 
property or return it to his control. As a result, Mr T says he has suffered financial loss, for 
which he would like Barclays to compensate him. Mr T is also unhappy at the way Barclays 
has dealt with this complaint.
What happened
In 2019, after falling into arrears on his BTL mortgages, Barclays appointed LPARs to take 
control of the properties. Since then, Mr T raised a number of complaints with Barclays about 
how Barclays has dealt with both his BTL and his residential mortgage. 
Mr T has subsequently raised several complaints with the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator has previously explained to Mr T that we cant look at the actions of the 
LPARs, because they arent subject to the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
In February 2021 I issued a final decision relating to fees added to Mr Ts mortgage 
accounts by Barclays. I upheld the complaint and Mr T accepted my final decision.
We are also considering several other complaints about the way Barclays has dealt with 
both the BTL and residential mortgages.
In relation to the mortgage account which is the subject of this particular complaint, the 
mortgage was taken out in January 2017. It fell into arrears from April 2017 onwards and has 
remained in arrears ever since. In 2019 LPARs were appointed and the tenants left the 
property in June 2019 with a view to the property being sold with vacant possession. 
The property was passed back to Barclays in January 2020 and the LPARs wrote to Mr T to 
inform him of this. Since then, Mr T says hes heard nothing from Barclays about what is 
happening to the property. Interest is accruing on the mortgage, and bills are due on the 
property. 
Mr T complained about this on 6 March 2020 and the final response was sent on 20 May 
2020. In the final response, Barclays explained why it wasnt able to take any action. The 
bank also confirmed that it had cancelled any further action while Mr T has open complaints 
with the Financial Ombudsman Service about his mortgage accounts.
Barclays explained that neither the LPARs nor the bank were able to take any repossession 
action, due to the complaints Mr T had raised about his mortgage accounts, which resulted 
in recovery action being put on hold. In addition, due to the pandemic, the bank has been 
unable to begin any court proceedings. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. She was satisfied that the 
arrears position on the account and Mr Ts financial circumstances meant that it wasnt 
feasible for the property to be returned to Mr T. The investigator also noted that events 
outside Barclays control, as well as guidance from the regulator, meant that Barclays was 
prevented from taking any further action in relation to the property. The investigator noted 
Barclays response to the complaint took longer than the regulatory timescale, but didnt 
think any compensation should be paid for this.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators findings. Hes made some further points, which I have 
summarised:
Barclays has shown no compassion or creativity of any financial options to help him out 
in the current situation;
at no point has the bank engaged in conversation with him about his account;
Barclays has failed to respond to his proposals sent via his secure online banking and 
another complaint has been raised about this;
there has been no clarity from Barclays as to what the banks intentions are going 
forward;
the last thing he needs and wants is for his BTL property to be repossessed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive read everything Mr T and Barclays have provided, and Ive taken note of all the 
points Mr T has raised. But I dont need to answer each and every point hes raised. Instead, 
I will concentrate on the main issues in the complaint, as our enabling legislation allows me 
to do.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr T says that, since the property was handed back to 
Barclays by the LPARs in January 2020, hes heard nothing from the bank about what it 
intends to do. Mr T also says that Barclays has failed to consider his proposals or respond to 
them.
Having looked at whats happened, I have to disagree with Mr T. Im satisfied that the LPARs 
wrote to Mr T in January 2020 to confirm the property was being handed back to the bank. 
Barclays has explained that, due to the number of complaints Mr T has raised, either with 
the bank or with the Financial Ombudsman Service, it wasnt possible for the LPARs to deal 
with the property. Likewise, Barclays has had to suspend any action whilst there are active 
complaints with the bank or with us.
Unfortunately, due to circumstances beyond the control of the bank, from March 2020 
onwards no possession action could be taken. This is because the regulator placed a 
moratorium on lenders taking possession action due to the pandemic. Barclays has 
confirmed, however, that once the bank is able to take action, it will be doing so. 
All of this was explained to Mr T in the banks letter dated 20 May 2020. So Im satisfied that 
Barclays has informed Mr T of its intentions, and the reasons why it hasnt been able to take 
action any sooner. 
Ive looked at the arrears history on the account and even at the point the LPARs were 
appointed, the arrears were well in excess of £15,000. Given this, Im not persuaded from 
what Mr T has told us about his financial circumstances that there is likely to be any realistic 
prospect of him being able to clear the arrears in order to have the property returned to him.
But in any event he terms and conditions of this mortgage account provide that Barclays can 
demand full repayment of the outstanding mortgage when at least two monthly instalments are due under the mortgage. In the circumstances, given that the arrears are far in excess of 
two months instalments  and that at least two months instalments have been due since at 
least June 2017  Im satisfied Barclays is under no obligation to consider proposals to 
return the property to Mr T.
Mr T is unhappy that he raised his complaint on 6 March 2020 but didnt receive a response 
until 20 May 2020. Given that this was during the first lockdown period of the pandemic, Im 
not persuaded Barclays response was unduly late or delayed in the circumstances.
I have a lot of sympathy for Mr Ts position. He took out BTL mortgages in the expectation 
that theyd prove to be a long-term investment. Unfortunately that hasnt turned out to be the 
case in relation to this mortgage. But after looking at everything thats happened here, Im 
satisfied that Barclays hasnt treated Mr T unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman