DRN-4039358
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Zurich Assurance Ltd declined to make full payment of a claim she 
made on her late husbands life insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out joint life and critical illness cover in 2017. They later amended the 
cover to remove the critical illness cover. 
Mr L sadly died, and Mrs L claimed on the policy. Zurich said they wouldnt make full 
payment of the claim as Mr L hadnt accurately declared information about his mental health 
when the policy was taken out. Mrs L complained but Zurich maintained their position that a 
partial settlement was fair. Mrs L made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mrs Ls complaint. He thought 
the question Mr L was asked wasnt clear. And, he didnt think Zurich had enough medical 
evidence to decline the claim because he didnt think the evidence clearly suggested Mr L 
had received in-patient hospital treatment for mental health difficulties. He said Zurich should 
continue to assess the claim, as theyd prematurely declined it, and pay Mrs L £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Zurich didnt agree. They didnt think the question Mr L had been asked was ambiguous and 
said that, based on their experience, the available medical evidence suggested there had 
been a referral to a hospital, mental health clinic and specialist intervention. The further 
comments from Zurich didnt change the investigators thoughts about the outcome of the 
complaint. So, the case has been referred to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Zurich have a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. 
Zurich says that Mr L didnt answer the questions on the application correctly. This means 
the law set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) are relevant and I think its fair and reasonable to apply these principles to the 
circumstances of this case. CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an 
appropriate remedy if a policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation 
under the Act. Ive also considered the relevant Code of Practice issued by the Association 
of British Insurers. 
A qualifying misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to 
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The insurer also needs to demonstrate 
that if the consumer had taken reasonable care it would have made a difference to the terms 
offered. The standard of care required is that of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors 
to be considered when deciding whether a consumer has taken reasonable care is how clear 
and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. 
Mr L was asked: 
Have you ever had: Schizophrenia, bi-polar disorder, manic depression, attempted
suicide, episode of self-harm, an eating disorder, or any other mental illness that has
required a stay in hospital or referral to a psychiatrist?
He answered no to that question. Zurich says that Mr L should have answered yes 
because information on his medical records suggested that hed had mental health issues 
which ought to have been disclosed in response to the question. 
Im satisfied this could have been a qualifying misrepresentation because Zurich has shown 
that had the question been answered yes it would have offered different terms. It would 
have applied a mortality loading to Mr Ls policy. As it considers that the misrepresentation 
was careless, rather than deliberate or reckless, it is on that basis that Zurich has settled the 
claim.
However, I agree with our investigator that Zurich reached this conclusion prematurely. I say 
that because I dont think the question is clear and unambiguous as I think it could be 
interpreted in different ways. For example, its unclear whether or not the applicant is being 
asked to disclose any hospital stay or referral to a psychiatrist referral for the listed 
conditions or whether the applicant was being asked to disclose a hospital stay or 
psychiatrist referral only if they had experienced any other mental illness. Where the 
question is unclear its interpreted in the way thats most favourable to the consumer. 
Mrs L said Mr L understood the question to be asking if hed ever had to stay in hospital or 
received a psychiatrists referral for one of the listed conditions. Ive taken into account 
whether it was reasonable for Zurich to conclude that the answer to that question ought to 
have been yes. I dont think it was for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
Mr Ls medical records dont clearly indicate that he had a hospital stay or psychiatric referral 
for one of the listed conditions. Whilst theres reference to Mr L having been detained under 
Section 136 of the Mental Health Act theres no confirmation that Mr L stayed in hospital or 
was referred to a psychiatrist. I think it would have been reasonable for Zurich to attempt to 
obtain more information about the circumstances before deciding to settle the claim 
proportionately. Zurich has said theyd now like to obtain this information. This is unfortunate 
because they could have taken the opportunity to do so at a much earlier point in the claim 
journey. 
Taking all of the above into account Im not persuaded that it was reasonable for Zurich to 
conclude Mr L made a qualifying misrepresentation based on the medical information they 
had. I dont think the question was clear and I dont think theyve currently demonstrated 
Mr L failed to take reasonable care when answering the question. 
Zurich need to pay Mrs L £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
prematurely deciding that a misrepresentation had taken place. This happened at a time 
when she was dealing with the loss of her husband in distressing circumstances. I think the 
decision to settle the claim proportionately, without all of the relevant information, has 
caused her worry and upset, at an already difficult time. 
Putting things right
Im upholding this complaint and direct Zurich to put things right by: Considering the claim again to determine whether any further benefit is payable
Paying Mrs L £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
For the avoidance of doubt Mrs L may be entitled to make a further complaint to our service 
depending on the outcome of the reassessment of the claim.
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint and direct Zurich Assurance Limited to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman