DRN-4177234
The complaint
Ms C has complained Secure Trust Bank plc, trading as V12 Retail Finance, is holding her 
liable for a credit agreement when the item she originally ordered was never delivered.
What happened
Ms C ordered an expensive watch, which she intended to pay for over a three-year period. 
She took out a fixed-sum loan agreement with V12 Retail Finance for £6,750.
The watch was delivered in October 2022, after an initial unsuccessful attempt at delivery. 
By this time Ms C knew this wasnt the watch she wanted so never opened the inner 
branded box containing the watch. Her son had opened the outer packaging as hed been 
expecting a delivery of his own but quickly realised this wasnt it.
The following day Ms C had packaged up the item, got the courier company to pick this up 
and sent it back. She didnt immediately hear from the supplier (who Ill call G). Ms C then 
discovered G had received the package back but they told Ms C that the inner box was 
empty and the watch was missing.
V12 Retail Finance continued to hold Ms C liable for the outstanding finance as the watch 
had not been returned. Desperately anxious, Ms C brought her complaint to the ombudsman 
service.
Our investigator considered the evidence supplied by both V12 Retail Finance and Ms C. 
She told Ms C that the evidence clearly showed the inner packaging being empty on the 
return to G. It was Ms Cs responsibility to return the goods which shed not done.
Ms C continued to believe that if the watch had not been there when the package was 
returned, then it couldnt have been there when she received the initial package. Shes 
asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
I also take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and 
codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 means that, in certain circumstances, if Ms C 
paid for goods or services using certain types of credit (even in part), and there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by G of those goods or services, V12 Retail Finance 
can also be held responsible. There are other conditions which need to be met but nothing 
specific which applies in Ms Cs case.
The key aspect of Ms Cs complaint is that she didnt receive the watch she ordered. This 
would be a breach of contract under section 75 if this were the case. However, by her own 
admission, she never opened the inner package so cant provide evidence this was the 
case.
I appreciate shed told us she didnt need to open the watch box as she already knew shed 
ordered the wrong item. However Im surprised that she didnt want to check the item was as 
supplied since she knew this would be her responsibility when she returned it. And this was 
an extremely high-value item.
On the other hand, I can see evidence has been supplied by G of the item being dispatched 
and weighed. Then of the item being opened on its return  with two staff members present 
in accordance with their security procedures for items of this nature. Theres no dispute that 
the inner box does not contain the watch.
I have also seen there is a weight discrepancy between the item being dispatched to Ms C 
and being received back from Ms C. The item is lighter by half a kilogram. This would 
certainly account for the missing watch.
I know Ms C would never have weighed the item on receipt, nor could I reasonably have 
expected her to. But she also says the inner box hadnt been tampered with, so I do think its 
more than likely the watch was present on her receipt.
I obviously cant say for sure what happened to the watch but I think its more than likely this 
was in the package when it was received by Ms C. But then wasnt in the package when 
Ms C returned it.
I dont believe there was a breach of contract under section 75 and therefore Ms C remains 
liable for the credit she took out.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Cs complaint against Secure 
Trust Bank plc, trading as V12 Retail Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman