DRN-3179914
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about Scottish Equitable Plc trading as AEGON Scottish Equitable 
(Aegon) as she feels it didnt carry out the necessary due diligence when she transferred 
her pension.
Mrs P is represented by a claims management company; however for ease Ill refer to Mrs P 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs P held a personal pension with Aegon. In 2014, she says:
she was approached by a business called One Consultancy Limited, who offered her a 
free review of her pension
One Consultancy recommended that she transfer her pension to the Genwick 
Retirement Benefit Scheme, which was administered by Deuten Services Limited
One Consultancy said her Aegon pension wasnt performing well and that she could get 
better returns with Genwick.
On 28 October 2014 Deuten sent the relevant documentation to Aegon for it to transfer 
Mrs Ps pension. On 30 October 2014 Aegon wrote to Mrs P asking her to provide various 
information and to confirm that she wished to proceed with the transfer. Enclosed with the 
letter was a leaflet from The Pensions Regulator (the Scorpion leaflet), which the letter said 
outlined the possible risks associated with transferring the pension.
Mrs P wrote to Aegon on 18 November 2014 providing the information. She also said she 
hadnt received any advice and wasnt going to get any; and she confirmed her wish to 
proceed with the transfer. Aegon started the process, and it transferred Mrs Ps pension 
funds on 26 November 2014. The funds were then placed in various investments, which 
Mrs P says are now illiquid and have no value.
In February 2020 Mrs P complained to Aegon. Her complaint centred on the fact that she 
didnt think Aegon had carried out suitable due diligence into Genwick before allowing the 
transfer to proceed. She felt Aegon should have identified warning signs from The Pensions 
Regulator's guidance; and should have contacted her to establish her understanding of the 
proposed scheme and what advice shed received.
Aegon said its initial due diligence checks revealed concerns that The Pensions Regulator 
had identified as higher risk, so it asked its financial crime team to carry out further checks. 
The financial crime team said theyd recently carried out further checks following another 
consumers transfer request  which included it receiving letters from the receiving schemes 
solicitor and accountant explaining why transfers to Genwick should proceed. Following this, 
the letter dated 30 October 2014 was sent to Mrs P. So it felt it had done the necessary due 
diligence, and that Mrs P had decided to proceed with the transfer despite the warnings 
contained in the Scorpion leaflet.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. This was because he felt Aegon 
had made the necessary checks into Genwick and had sufficiently warned Mrs P of the risks. 
Mrs P disagreed with our investigator. She said, amongst other things:
there were clear warning signs that ought to have caused Aegon concern
had risk warnings been provided she would have been better equipped to make an 
informed choice about the transfer
it was inappropriate for Aegon to rely on the fact that Genwick had an HMRC registration 
certificate as HMRC carried out minimal checks as to the legitimacy of pension schemes
she didnt receive the Scorpion leaflet and Aegon has no evidence to show it was 
provided; had she received it she would have thought further about the risks
Aegon was aware of the involvement of third parties, so it should have been concerned 
about Mrs P telling it that shed not received regulated advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of Mrs Ps argument centres on the various warning signs, the actions Aegon should 
have taken to identify them, and that the signs ought to have caused Aegon concern. I dont 
think the outcome of this complaint turns on precisely how many warning signs Aegon could 
or should have identified. I say this because Aegon has already effectively admitted that it 
had identified some warning signs  hence why it initially referred the transfer request to its 
financial crime team, and then wrote to Mrs P on 30 October 2014. In my view, this case 
turns on whether having noted the warning signs Aegon took sufficient action to warn Mrs P 
about the potential risks.
What rules or guidance was Aegon expected to follow at the time of the transfer?
In February 2013 a campaign (known as the Scorpion campaign) was launched and The 
Pensions Regulator issued guidance. In summary, the campaign provided an action pack 
that highlighted various warning signs present in a number of examples. These warning 
signs included the consumer being cold called, their money being transferred overseas and 
incentives being given to transfer pensions. The action pack suggested that transferring 
schemes look out for these signs. And where they had concerns they were encouraged to 
consider delaying the transfer or seeking legal advice.
The action pack provided a checklist that transferring schemes could use if they had 
concerns. This left some ambiguity as to whether they were expected to conduct in-depth 
enquiries in every case, but some of this was resolved by the fact that The Pensions 
Regulator expected transferring schemes to send the Scorpion leaflet to consumers at the 
same time as the transfer quotation.
The Scorpion campaign was rebranded in July 2014. The guidance set out a range of things 
a business could do in cases where it had identified that there were potential warning signs 
of pension liberation or scams:
contacting the consumer to establish their understanding of the type of scheme theyre 
transferring to
sending the Scorpion leaflet
phoning, writing to or emailing the consumer to help answer some of the questions in the 
checklist
directing the consumer to Action Fraud or to The Pensions Advisory Service.Sitting alongside this were various principles and rules issued by the financial services 
regulator  such as treating customers fairly and acting in their best interests.
With all this in mind, I think the minimum a transferring scheme needed to do in cases where 
it had identified that there were potential warning signs of pension liberation or scams was:
write to or phone the consumer directly (ie not a third party) explaining that there are 
risks in the transfer
include the Scorpion leaflet if one hadnt been sent directly with the transfer quote
not immediately proceed with the transfer  in order to allow the consumer time to reflect 
on the letter and insert.
To avoid any doubt, there has never been a requirement for transferring schemes to 
definitively assess whether pension liberation or a scam is taking place, or if the transfer and 
underlying investments are suitable for the consumer.
Were Aegons actions sufficient?
The only real action Aegon took in terms of communicating with Mrs P was the letter it sent 
on 30 October 2014, which said:
Aegon had the right and duty to carry out checks on pension schemes
these checks could delay the transfer and it might not to be able to transfer the pension
but it would consider any supporting documentation Mrs P provided, including:
odetails of the receiving scheme's trustees
odetails of the financial adviser who gave the advice (including their Financial 
Conduct Authority authorisation number)
ocopies of any letters, emails, brochures or other marketing materials shed 
received that provide information about the scheme and its charges
if Mrs P still wanted to transfer her pension, it needed her to confirm it in writing.
The letter also enclosed the Scorpion leaflet.
I dont think this letter was in line with how The Pensions Regulator expected a warning to 
be delivered. I say this because the letter didnt say there were risks with the transfer that 
Aegon had identified. In effect, it couldnt do that because Aegon was still asking Mrs P for 
information in this letter so that it could complete its due diligence and then decide to what 
extent it needed to warn Mrs P further.
However, I think the overall content of the letter  particularly reference to the Scorpion 
leaflet and the risks the leaflet highlighted  was suggestive enough that there were risks 
involved. In any event, I think if Aegons letter had been more explicit its messaging most 
likely would have been along the same lines as the Scorpion leaflet. And Mrs P continued 
with the transfer despite knowing the risks outlined in the leaflet and what to look out for eg 
being approached out of the blue, being offered a free review of her pension. So if Aegon 
had set out warnings  either in the 30 October 2014 letter or in a later one after Mrs P had 
provided the information asked for  I think its most likely that Mrs P would have continued 
with the transfer anyway.
Ive noted Mrs Ps comment in response to our investigator that she never received the 
Scorpion leaflet. I think its most likely that one was enclosed with the letter. I say this 
because, contrary to what shes now told our investigator, when she complained to Aegon 
the accompanying letter said Throughout the transfer process, there was no direct contact between [Mrs P] and Aegon about the transfer save of a letter from Aegon dated 30 October 
2014 which simply enclosed a copy of the Scorpion warning (my emphasis). This suggests 
to me that the Scorpion leaflet was enclosed with the letter.
Im not persuaded that Aegon would routinely not have enclosed a leaflet it said it was 
enclosing. But even if Mrs P didnt receive the leaflet, I think this is something she ought to 
have raised with Aegon at the time. I say this because Aegons letter put her on notice that a 
leaflet from The Pensions Regulator was supposed to have been enclosed, and the 
importance of the leaflet was implied given it set out the possible risks associated with 
transferring your pension. So if one wasnt enclosed I think Mrs P should have contacted 
Aegon at the time to ask for one to be sent.
Mrs P has argued that Aegon should have been concerned once shed told it that shed not 
received any regulated advice. Much like the issue with the Scorpion leaflet, Mrs P has been 
inconsistent in respect of whether she received any advice  prior to the transfer she 
confirmed she hadnt received any; but when she complained she said she received a 
recommendation that she should transfer her pension to Genwick. In any event, having 
already sent Mrs P the Scorpion leaflet and having effectively been told that despite the 
warnings in the leaflet Mrs P wanted to continue with the transfer, I dont think Aegon 
needed to press her further. 
There has to come a point where Aegon simply has to process the transfer as requested and 
I think that point had been reached in this case. I dont think Aegon raised the white flag as 
soon as Mrs P responded and simply proceeded with the transfer  it had information on its 
file from professionals such as Genwicks solicitor and accountant that the Genwick scheme 
had a valid trust deed and rules, it could admit non-employees, it was correctly registered 
with HMRC and the trustee seemed qualified to operate it. So I dont think Aegon had a 
legitimate reason to delay the transfer further or refuse it.
In respect of Aegon processing the transfer, Im satisfied that it wasnt done immediately and 
that Mrs P was given sufficient time to consider the Scorpion leaflet and Aegons letter.
Summary
For the reasons outlined above, I conclude that Aegon took sufficient action to warn Mrs P 
about the potential risks of her proposed transfer. But, in any event, even if it didnt, I think 
Mrs P most likely would have transferred anyway.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022. 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman