DRN-2979042
The complaint
Mr B says Madison CF Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a two fixed term loans taken out by Mr B in 2016 with 118 118 
Money. The details of these loans are:
Loan Amount Date Months Repayment
1 £1650 09/09/2016 24 £120.19
2 £2000 03/12/2016 24 £160.32
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint and thought 118 118 Money shouldnt have 
provided both loans. He concluded that 118 118 Money didnt make a fair lending decision 
based on the information it had in front of it on either occasion. 
118 118 Money agreed to compensate Mr B for providing loan 2. But disagreed with the 
investigators findings about loan 1. It says Mr B told it he had an additional source of income 
and so it felt the loan was affordable for him. So as both parties are not in agreement, Mr Bs 
complaint has been passed to me.
Both parties are not in dispute about loan 2 and 118 118 Money has agreed to put things 
right. So as this is the case and the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Bs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr B would be able to repay loans in a sustainable way and without experiencing 
significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that 118 118 Money wouldve been able 
to do so?
2. Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr B ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and cause significant adverse consequences for Mr 
B. In practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Loan 2
Both parties are not in dispute about loan 2 and 118 118 Money has agreed to put things 
right. So as this is the case, I will not make any detailed findings about this loan, other than 
to say I have looked through the documents submitted, and I agree with the investigators 
findings. I also think loan 2 should be upheld and think 118 118 Money didnt make a fair 
lending decision based on what was given on the credit report that it would have had in front 
of it.  So I will be including loan 2 later on in my decision and will be asking 118 118 Money 
to put things right, as it has already said it would. 
I will now go on and concentrate my findings on loan 1. This is the loan that both parties are 
still in dispute about. 
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay Loan 1 in a sustainable way?118 118 Money has provided evidence to show that before lending to Mr B it asked him for 
information about his income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit check and says it 
obtained bank statements, albeit it now no longer has these. Based on those checks 118 
118 Money thought it was fair to lend.
Mr B was entering into a significant commitment with 118 118 Money. He was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of 2 years. So, I think it is right that 118 118 Money 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Bs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think 118 118 Money checks were proportionate. 
Did 118 118 Money make a fair lending decision with regards to loan 1?
I have concluded 118 118 Money made proportionate checks. But simply performing 
proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to react appropriately to the 
information those checks show. Those results might sometimes lead a lender to undertake 
further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some cases, the results might 
lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. This is what I think 118 118 Money 
should have done with loan 1.
118 118 Money obtained a credit report when it was assessing whether loan 1 was 
affordable for Mr B. There are several open short-term credit and pay day loans on this 
report. I agree with our investigator when he concluded this loan was unsustainable for Mr B. 
I can also see the significant repayments that he would have to make, that is shown on the 
credit report. Mr B was committed to repayments that would have taken up nearly all of his 
monthly income. I cant see that 118 118 Money would reasonably consider that Mr B would 
be able to repay this loan without having to borrow more credit first. Mr B was, stated on this 
credit report, borrowing from multiple short-term finance providers. He was lending and 
repaying from these companies on a regular basis during a short space of time and I think 
there is enough here that 118 118 Money had in front of it, for me to draw a conclusion that 
Mr B was in a cycle of debt and was borrowing in order to repay what he owed. I think the 
credit report shows that Mr B was having problems managing his finances at that time and 
on seeing this 118 118 Money shouldnt have made a decision to lend to him. 
118 118 Money has recently told our service that Mr B told it he had another source of 
income. It has shown a screen print where it documented this. It also says that it obtained 
bank statements from Mr B at the time, as he had only been in his job for a short while. But it 
hasnt retained these and hasnt been able to submit these to our service. I acknowledge 
what 118 118 Money has said about what it says Mr B told it at the time. But I cant see that 
it went on and used this within its affordability assessment. The documents it has submitted 
has instead showed that it used Mr Bs monthly income figure declared by him. I havent 
seen any more from 118 118 Money other than the screen shot of a conversation it had with 
Mr B about bank statements and an additional income, not that it reacted to any of the 
information that this may have provided. So, in conclusion I dont think 118 118 Money 
reacted appropriately to the information it had in front of it. The sheer number of short term 
loans that he took out leading up to him asking for a loan with it, ought to have given 118 
118 Money serious concerns about Mr Bs finances and his ability to repay this loan in a 
sustainable way.
In conclusion, I dont think, based on what 118 118 Money had in front of it, that it should 
have given Mr B this loan. 
118 118 Money needs to put things right.Putting things right  what 118 118 Money needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 1 and 2;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 1 and 2 from Mr Bs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 Money 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Madison CF Limited should 
put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman