DRN-2289473
The complaint
Mr Z has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a packaged bank account 
called a Gold account. He paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential 
benefits in return. He thinks that Lloyds should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest. 
What happened
Mr Z has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has told us that its records show 
that he opened a fee-free account in May 1993. It doesnt have the precise date it sold him 
the Gold account but has told us that it did so before September 2001. Its records show that 
Mr Z kept the Gold account until November 2014 and then closed it. I think that Lloyds 
records about this are probably reliable, and I have taken them to be accurate.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Zs complaint and didnt recommend that 
Lloyds should give him any money back. Mr Z didnt agree with the adjudicators findings 
and asked for an ombudsman to review his case. So, it has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr Z and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr Z has been very precise about why he is complaining. Hes told us that in 1994 an 
adviser from Lloyds, who he has named, went to his home to discuss his finances. Hes told 
us that a sales adviser visited (him). and asked if (he) had time to discuss  a few matters.  Once  
(they)  were  seated,  the adviser  instantly  started  introducing  (him)  to the packaged bank accounts. 
Mr Z has told us that because he had a good income (Lloyds said that)  (he) had to 
take out a Lloyds Gold current account but didnt tell him about the monthly fees. Hes said 
that he only found out (about the fees) after a few months, when completing (his) accounts. 
Hes told us that he thinks Lloyds sold him the Gold account forcibly and gave him the 
impression that (he) had no choice.
Mr Z has mentioned that Lloyds told him about the perks the account provided and that he 
used some of them (hes specifically referred to travel insurance) as he knew they were 
available, but that Lloyds lied to him and told him he had to keep the Gold account. In 
recent correspondence, he has also said that he had previously discussed getting a 
mortgage with Lloyds and this led him to open the fee-free account. 
Lloyds has denied that it lied to Mr Z. It has said that it sold the Gold account to him fairly.
Before considering the precise arguments within Mr Zs complaint, I would like to point out 
that Lloyds changed the nature of the Gold account over the years Mr Z held one. It has told 
us that before 1996, the account only provided banking benefits in return for the monthly 
fee. I dont have much specific information about these banking benefits, but typically they 
included things such as lower overdraft charges and/or better interest rates on some types of 
savings and loans than Lloyds usually offered to customers with fee-free accounts. Lloyds 
started to add other benefits (or perks) from early 1996 onwards. For example, it added 
travel insurance around 1997 and use of a car breakdown service and insurance for mobile 
phones around 2004. 
The events which Mr Z has described took place well over 25 years ago, and there are no 
detailed records from that time, so I cant tell for sure what happened. Instead, I have used 
the evidence that is available to determine what is most likely to have occurred. 
It would have been unusual for Lloyds to visit someone at home, without prior agreement, 
solely to discuss packaged bank accounts. However, from what Mr Z has told us, I accept 
that a meeting certainly took place during 1994, either at his home or elsewhere; and that 
Lloyds brought up the Gold account. 
It seems to me that the two key points in Mr Zs complaint are that during the meeting he 
thinks Lloyds told him that he had to change to the Gold account and then forced him to 
keep it for many years; and that it didnt tell him about the monthly fees.
I find both of Mr Zs key points unlikely. 
Fee-free accounts have been widely available in the UK, both from Lloyds and other banks, 
throughout the period of time in question; and as Mr Z held one of these before Lloyds sold 
him the Gold account, I doubt Lloyds told him he had to change. And due to his interest in 
arranging a mortgage, I think its quite likely that he may have found some of the possible 
banking benefits of the Gold account attractive and potentially useful. So, I think it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to raise it account with him.  And I think it gave him a choice about 
buying it.
Similarly, I havent seen anything to make me think that Lloyds prevented Mr Z from 
switching back to a fee-free account during the ensuing years. Over such a long period of 
time, during which both the fees and the potential benefits of the account changed 
significantly, I would have expected Lloyds to have kept Mr Z up-to-date with what was 
happening. It normally did this by writing to customers and as Mr Z knew about the benefits 
of the account (such as travel insurance), which werent available in 1994, it seems to have 
done this for him. I dont think it forced him to keep the account.
I do not know exactly how much the monthly fee for the Gold account was in 1994, but it 
would appear on Mr Zs statements (or accounts), so I dont think Lloyds would have tried to 
hide it from him during the discussion. Furthermore, I dont think it would have been credible 
for Lloyds to present the benefits of the Gold account as being free. 
So, in summary, there isnt a great of firm information about what happened in this case. I 
accept that Lloyds may not have got everything right for Mr Z, but I dont think it denied him a 
choice to keep his fee-free account in 1994 or forced him to keep the Gold account in the 
years that followed. And Im satisfied that it probably told him about the fees and benefits of 
the account, both initially and as they changed. I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the Gold 
account to Mr Z.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Zs complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman