DRN-2842427
The complaint
Mr D complains about a fixed sum loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited, (L2G) 
which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
L2G provided Mr D with a loan of £500 on 8 November 2018. The loan was to be repaid over 
18 monthly instalments of £113.28. If Mr D made each payment when it was due, hed pay 
£2039.04 in total at an annual interest rate of 990.1%. Mr D has to date, not made any 
repayments on this loan.
Mr D says the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been given to him.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
L2G gathered some information from Mr D about his income and expenses before it agreed 
the loan. It also carried out a credit check.
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks?
As Ive already mentioned, Ive seen how L2G asked about Mr Ds financial circumstances 
by checking his credit file and verifying his income. But Im not satisfied that these checks 
went far enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 18 months and L2G needed to ensure the repayments 
were sustainable over that relatively long period of time;
L2Gs analysis showed discrepancies between its checks and Mr Ds declared 
income and credit expenditure. Both of these discrepancies for income and 
expenditure were wide enough that in both cases they should have caused L2G 
concerns about the true nature of Mr Ds finances.
For the above reasons, I consider L2Gs checks should have included a full review of Mr Ds 
financial circumstances, including further verification of his expenditure so it could ensure 
that the loan repayments were affordable. So, I dont think the checks it carried out were 
proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
I need to think about what L2G would have seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Our adjudicator asked Mr D to provide his bank statements from around the time he applied 
for the loan. Im not suggesting here that this is the check that L2G should have done. But I 
think looking at his bank statements would give me the best picture of what the lender 
should have seen.
Mr D has not been able to provide our service with bank statements from before and around 
when he took out the loan though. Mr D has provided a print out from his bank that shows 
the average balance of his overdraft over a number of months before and after the loan was 
granted. So, I have looked at this along with what L2G did have in front of it, including the 
credit search results to give me a better idea of what L2G would have seen if it had carried 
out proportionate checks.
I have been able to see the results of the credit check L2G carried out, and although I can 
see a defaulted account with another lender with an outstanding balance along with the 
overdraft, there isnt enough there that would indicate to me that the amount of debt he had, 
or how he was managing it, should have led L2G to decline the loan.
Ive also considered what Mr D has submitted to us with his bank print out of his overdraft 
balances. I can see that he consistently used his overdraft but again this on its own wouldnt 
suggest to me that he was struggling to manage his finances or that the loan repayments 
were unaffordable for him at the time the loan was granted.   
In conclusion, I do think the discrepancy between the information Mr D provided and what 
L2G saw in its credit checks ought to have suggested better checks. But based on what I 
have in front of me, including the additional information provided by Mr D about his overdraft, 
I dont think the loan repayments were unaffordable for him at the time he was granted the 
loan. Albeit I do appreciate that finances would have been tight for Mr D. So, I am minded to 
conclude, that further checks wouldnt have shown that L2G lent irresponsibly to Mr D.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im currently not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. L2G has not responded by the deadline given.
Mr D responded twice on 16 April 2021 and disagreed with my provisional decision. He 
said he had a defaulted account of over £400 and an overdraft at £400 along with 
disposable income of £1 and questioned how the loan was affordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D asked in his response to my provisional decision how the loan could be affordable 
and pointed to his overdraft, a defaulted account and disposable income of £1 as reasons 
why he thought it wasnt. 
I have already considered what Mr D has raised within my provisional decision and within it 
I concluded that there wasnt enough that I have seen that would indicate to me that the 
amount of debt Mr D had or how he was managing it at the time should have led L2G to 
decline the loan. 
In addition, Mr D has mentioned his disposable income being £1. L2G told our service 
before I issued my provisional decision, that it calculated Mr Ds disposable income to be 
higher than that. But I can also see that L2G applied a 5% buffer to the expenditure figure it 
calculated for Mr D so in reality L2Gs calculated disposable income figure would have 
been higher than £1 in any case. I know this will be a disappointment for Mr D and I acknowledge the comments he has 
made, but on this occasion, I am not persuaded to change the outcome of his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman