DRN-4017787
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) and the 
settlement offer provided to them to rectify additional repairs required due to the poor 
workmanship of LVs appointed contractor.
Mrs W has acted as the main representative to the claim during the claim and complaint 
process. So, for ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made by 
both Mrs W and Mr W as Mrs W throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W held a joint home insurance policy, underwritten by LV. Unfortunately, in 
January 2022, they discovered a leak in their home. So, they contacted LV to make a claim 
on their policy.
LV instructed a contractor, who Ill refer to as G to complete the required repairs. These 
repairs were completed around April 2022. But in June 2022, Mrs W discovered another leak 
originating from the same area of her home. A plumber was sent to Mrs Ws home to resolve 
the leak and they stated the leak was due to the standard of repairs completed by G.
So, Mrs W contacted LV to make them aware of this. LV appointed an independent 
surveyor, who Ill refer to as S, to inspect Mrs Ws home and confirm the origin of the new 
leak. S compiled a report explaining the leak had been caused by the quality of repairs 
completed in the bathroom and specifically, around the bath and the shower. And S 
compiled a list of the repairs that would be required, including repairs to the damage caused 
underneath the bathroom in the kitchen.
Mrs W explained that, due to the quality of the previous works, she didnt want G to return to 
her property. So, it was agreed that LV would pay Mrs W a cash settlement to arrange her 
own repairs. But Mrs W obtained a quote from her own builder for £7,000, which significantly 
exceeded LVs cash settlement offer of £2,389.94. So, she wanted LV to increase the cash 
settlement to cover the quote she obtained. LV refused this and so, Mrs W raised a 
complaint.
Mrs W thought LV were unfair to refuse increasing the settlement offer, especially 
considering the new leak had been caused by the poor workmanship of G. And Mrs W felt 
LVs offer of alternative accommodation was unreasonable and that a bathroom pod should 
be provided instead. So, she maintained her belief that the cash settlement should be 
increased so her own builder could proceed with the works.
LV responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. While they didnt agree to provide a 
settlement that covered Mrs Ws builders quote, they did offer to increase the alternative 
accommodation amount, the removal and refit of the bath as well as a payment to 
acknowledge the increase in energy consumption the drying process would incur. And they 
paid Mrs W a total compensation amount of £600 to acknowledge the delays during the 
claim process and any impact this caused. Mrs W remained unhappy with this response, so 
she returned the £600 to LV. And she asked our service to continue with our investigation.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They accepted there had been 
delays during the claim process. But they thought the £600 LV had paid Mrs W was a fair 
amount to recognise the upset these delays caused. So, as this had been returned to LV, 
they thought this amount should be paid again. And they recognised there was a significant 
disparity between LVs settlement offer compared to the quote provided by Mrs Ws builder. 
So, our investigator thought the fairest way to reach a reasonable settlement would be for LV 
to arrange for a new independent report to be obtained from a separate business to one 
looking to complete the work.
Mrs W didnt agree with this recommendation. She questioned whether any report 
commissioned by LV could be deemed to be independent. And she maintained, based on 
the cost of the original work completed by G, it was likely their builders quote was the most 
reasonable and realistic. She also queried the fairness of the alternative accommodation 
offer, and the compensation offered, paid and then returned to LV. As Mrs W didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. I note LV issued their final response to Mrs Ws 
complaint in November 2022. So, Ive only considered the service and any impact on Mrs W 
up to this point. Any complaints Mrs W had regarding the service after this point would need 
to be raised with LV separately, who must be given an opportunity to respond before our 
service can consider any further. 
It's also already accepted by LV that there were avoidable delays during the claim process 
between June 2022 and their final response, and they paid Mrs W £600 to recognise the 
impact this caused. As LV arent disputing this issue, I dont intend to discuss the merits of 
this in further detail. But I will consider the fairness of the offer later within the decision.
Instead, my decision focuses on the main area of dispute, which centres around the 
settlement amount offered by LV, and the fairness of this. I can see LV have offered to pay 
Mrs W a total of £2859.94 which includes payments towards energy consumption, the bath 
removal and refit and the alternative accommodation offering.
But I can see Mrs Ws builders quote totals £7,000. And I recognise Mrs W wants a 
bathroom pod to be installed while the works are ongoing, providing a quote for this of over 
£1,000. So, Ive thought about LVs settlement proposal against Mrs Ws quotes and thought 
about whether I think LV have acted fairly.
When doing so, Ive considered the report provided by S at length, as this was an 
independent report that both Mrs W and LV agreed to obtain to help understand what repair 
work was required after the second leak became apparent. 
This report makes it reasonably clear that the leak had resulted from the poor workmanship 
of G when they completed the initial repair work in early 2022. Specifically, issues regarding 
the installation of the bath and shower. And the report confirms this leak has impacted the walls below in the kitchen, recommending repair work is completed to rectify this damage.
I can see that the cash settlement LV has provided is based on Gs quotation to complete 
the work recommended in S report. Ive considered Gs schedule of work, and Im satisfied it 
does cover the recommendations put forward by S. But I do understand why Mrs W would 
decide not to allow G to complete this work, considering the workmanship they had already 
displayed. So, I think Mrs W has acted fairly when requesting a settlement and sought 
quotations from her own builder.
Ive then carefully considered Mrs Ws builders quote, against the work recommend in S 
report. And I do think some of the work Mrs Ws builder has quoted for is additional to the 
recommendations of S. So, I can understand why, without substantiation, LV would refuse to 
pay a cash settlement for this additional work to be completed.
This is because Im unable to say the quote provided by Mrs Ws builder can be deemed to 
be entirely independent, as they are quoting for work which they will financially benefit from. 
So, the more work they suggest is required, the more profit they are likely to make. And 
within the quote itself, there isnt an itemised break down of the work they plan to complete, 
including the hours they plan to take and the cost of materials etc. 
But I would expect LV to consider the quotes provided by Mrs W, and ensure they are 
satisfied the settlement they have put forward is correct, especially as they are relying on a 
quotation put forward by G, who have already not carried out repairs to the appropriate 
standard.
And while I do understand some of LVs rationale, I think they couldve done more to engage 
with Mrs W and ensure the settlement they offer is a fair one, that reasonably allows Mrs W 
to ensure the damage to her home is corrected. As I think LV couldve done more here, and 
it's already been accepted there have been delays during this process, Ive then thought 
about what I think LV should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mrs W back in the position she wouldve 
been, had LV acted fairly. It is not intended to place Mrs W in a position of betterment, as we 
are an independent organisation that must ensure any outcome we decide is fair to both 
parties.
In this situation, I think there is a clear disparity on the work Mrs Ws builder feels is required 
and the cost of this, compared to the settlement offer put forward by LV. And I can see in 
internal conversations, LV considered appointing a loss adjustor to consider the fairness of 
Mrs Ws builders quote, to ensure the settlement offer put forward is a fair one.
In this situation, considering the length of time the claim has been ongoing and the fact its 
not in dispute the second leak has been caused by Gs workmanship, I dont think its fair for 
LV to rely solely on the quote provided by G. But I also dont think LV should be made to pay 
Mrs W a settlement amount that pays for work S report didnt state needed to be done. So, 
in this situation, I think the fairest way forward would be for LV to arrange, at their expense, 
an independent report to confirm exactly what work is required, the cost of this work and how 
long this work will take considering both the settlement put forward by LV and the work 
quoted for by Mrs Ws builder. This report should be compiled by an entirely independent 
expert, who wont stand to profit from any work that is or isnt undertaken.
And Id expect LV to use this report to understand the impact any work will have on Mrs W 
and her familys access to bathing facilities and so, consider this in any alternative accommodation or bathing pod that may be required. Due to the length of time thats been 
ongoing, if Mrs W accepts this way forward, Id expect LV to ensure this report is arranged 
and provided within a reasonable amount of time.
I also think LV should pay Mrs W for the upset shes been caused by the second leak, and 
the delays shes experienced in attempting to get the leak and the damage its caused fixed. 
I note LV have already paid Mrs W and her family £600 to recognise this, which theyve 
since received back.
Having considered this payment, I think it is a fair one to recognise the delays from the date 
the second leak was identified, to the date LV issued their final response. And I think it falls 
in line with what I wouldve recommended, and our services approach had it not already 
been put forward by LV.
I think the £600 is significant enough to compensate Mrs W and her family for the fact a new 
leak was caused by the workmanship of G, who were acting on LVs behalf. And I think it 
addresses the time and effort Mrs W has lost engaging with LV to try and find a resolution to 
her situation, and the emotional impact and inconvenience shes been caused by the delays 
and living in a property with damage through no fault of her own. So, I think LV should 
arrange for the £600 to be paid to Mrs W again.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs W was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mrs W Ive 
thought carefully about all of the points shes raised, including the breakdown of the 
compensation and why she thinks this isnt a fair amount.
But our service doesnt calculate compensatory payments on a daily or weekly basis. We 
consider compensatory payments holistically, considering the impact any failings have had 
on a customer. And I think the £600 is a fair payment on this occasion.
And I recognise Mrs W will likely be frustrated that this decision doesnt direct LV to pay her 
a settlement that covers the total quote provided by her builder. But our service isnt 
intended to act as a replacement for a loss adjustor nor can we decide how much a claim is 
or isnt worth. So, in this situation, I feel due to the significant difference between the quote 
and proposed settlement, seeking the opinion of an independent expert is the fairest way 
forward.
Should Mrs W be unhappy with the actions of LV after this report has been obtained, she 
would be able to raise a separate complaint about this should she wish to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint about Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Arrange, at their own expense, an independent report to confirm the required repair 
works and the cost of this to agree a fair and reasonable cash settlement; and
Pay Mr W and Mrs W £600 to recognise the impact theyve been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman