DRN-2398550
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out PPI in 1997 at the same time as they applied for a mortgage in one of 
the banks branches. In 2001 they moved onto a different type of PPI policy when they 
switched mortgage products. Both policies gave them accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover. They paid a monthly amount for the cover.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint, Mr and Mrs C disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory (as some of it is here) I've made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I think is most likely 
given the available evidence and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time. In 
response to the adjudicators view Mr and Mrs C said that we had unfairly favoured Halifax. 
But we are an independent and impartial organisation and dont act on behalf of either 
consumers or banks. There is no benefit for us to find in favour of one party over the other. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here. 
Ive decided neither PPI policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
the 1997 sale
Mr and Mrs C say they were told they had to have PPI to proceed with the mortgage. Halifax 
was aware of their need to buy quickly and they believe it used that to secure a PPI sale. 
Halifax says its more likely than not the optional nature of the policy was verbally explained 
to them in good time before the sale concluded.
I cant know what was said in the meeting and Halifax no longer has any paperwork from the 
sale. But thats not surprising or unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. I note Mr 
and Mrs C had two earlier mortgage products with Halifax with no PPI. This suggests to me 
they would have known it was an optional product. I have considered their comments 
carefully, but I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might 
affect what they recall. And I havent been able to find other evidence to support their 
recollection that they were pressured to take PPI. Overall, without stronger evidence, I cant 
fairly conclude Halifax didnt make Mr and Mrs C aware the PPI was optional and they didnt 
agree to take it.
 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. I know they feel strongly that they didnt need it. But based on what theyve told us 
about their circumstances at the time, I think that it was suitable. Mrs C was entitled to six 
months' full pay and six months half pay if she was sick and Mr C was entitled to six months 
sick pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their work benefits and for up to 12 
months. It also gave up to 12 months redundancy cover so would have allowed them to 
protect any lump sum redundancy payment(s), giving increased financial stability at a difficult 
time whilst not working.
Mr and Mrs C said they were members of their employers pension scheme, but this isnt 
suitable alternative protection. It wouldnt help with monthly mortgage repayments in the 
same way as PPI. They had savings worth less than three months salary but the PPI would 
have allowed them to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep 
them intact for their future needs. They were borrowing a large sum over a long period, 
secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping up the repayments could have been 
serious for them. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs C if they 
were sick, had an accident or lost their job(s).
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs C the clear and complete information they 
needed before deciding to buy PPI. I don't know when the cost was made clear. But the PPI 
was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and apparently affordable. And I dont know 
that the bank pointed out the main things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs C dont 
appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI wouldve changed their mind about buying it.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
In summary, I am not upholding the complaint about the policy sold in 1997.
the 2001 sale 
Mr and Mrs C say Halifax reduced their monthly PPI payments by terminating the 1997 
policy and making them take out a new cheaper PPI policy. At the time, whilst they knew 
their payments were being reduced, they didnt understand theyd been sold a new policy. 
They had contacted Halifax to review their mortgage product and cant recall any paperwork 
relating to a new PPI policy. 
This switch they made was to a Total Mortgage Protection Plan. This offered life, critical 
illness and PPI. They didnt take out the life or critical illness cover.
Again, I cant know what was said at the time of the sale and Halifax no longer has the 
paperwork. But thats not surprising or unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. 
Based on what we know about the banks sales process of this product at the time, I think its 
most likely Mr and Mrs C completed a TMPP application form selecting which elements of 
the cover they wanted, after discussion with the bank. I say this as Halifax has provided 
samples of the documents it used when selling TMPP at this time. I cant find enough 
evidence to conclude that it didnt follow its standard sales process here. Overall, I think its most likely Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs C had a choice about PPI -
and they opted to take it out.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to make sure it was suitable. Again, 
I know they feel strongly that they didnt need it. But based on what theyve told us about 
their circumstances at the time, I think that it was suitable. Mrs C was entitled to six months' 
full pay and six months half pay if she was sick and Mr C was entitled to six months sick 
pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their work benefits and for up to 24 months. 
It also gave up to 24 months redundancy cover so would have allowed them to protect any 
lump sum redundancy payment(s), giving increased financial stability at a difficult time whilst 
not working.
Mr and Mrs C said they were members of their employers pension scheme, but this isnt 
suitable alternative protection. It wouldnt help with monthly mortgage repayments in the 
same way as PPI. They had savings of around £10,000 at this point but the PPI would have 
allowed them to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working or to keep them 
intact for their future needs. They still had significant borrowings secured on their home. So 
the effects of not keeping up the repayments could have been serious for them. Overall, I 
again think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs C if they were sick, had an 
accident or lost their job(s). Mr and Mrs Cs argument about the capital repayment they 
made in 2004 does not change my conclusion.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs C the clear and complete information they 
needed before deciding to buy PPI. I don't know when the cost was made clear. But the PPI 
was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and apparently affordable. And I dont know 
that the bank pointed out the main things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs C dont 
appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI wouldve changed their mind about buying it.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs C paid on their 2001 policy  and 
whether Halifax treated them unfairly. 
Halifax has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Cs policy in 2001 was less than half 
of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Cs commission was less 
than half the cost of the policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about 
the commission  so I dont think Halifax treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs C back any of the commission they paid for their second PPI policy.
However Halifax has already given Mr and Mrs C back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
I note that Mrs C needed her refund cheque (covering both the 1997 and 2001 policy) to be 
re-issued and has requested this from the bank several times. I have seen a copy of the 
letter from the bank dated 6 January 2021 confirming it will re-issue her cheque, with 
additional interest to recognise the delay, within 28 days of that date and I think thats fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding this complaint. 
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. This is only 
relevant to the 1997 sale, although Halifax also opted to refund some of the cost of the 2001 
policy as a gesture of goodwill. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any 
further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman