DRN-4094083
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled 
a claim made on their commercial motor insurance policy. Mr H is a named driver on Mrs Hs 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs H complained to RSA that it had settled another drivers claim against their policy in 
2019 without investigating it sufficiently. The other driver said Mr H had reversed into their 
car causing damage to the front bumper area. Mrs H said they had no recall of the incident 
and thought it was fraudulent. 
RSA said it had tried to contact Mr H about the alleged incident several times, but he hadnt 
responded. It said the other driver had Mr Hs details and there was an independent witness. 
Mr H later told RSA in a call that the other driver had hit his car, but no damage had been 
caused. RSA decided to settle the other drivers claim and a fault claim was recorded 
against Mr Hs record. Mrs H was unhappy that this would affect their premiums at renewal.  
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr H 
had been aware of the incident. And she thought that due to his lack of co-operation with 
RSA and the changes in his accounts that the other drivers version of events was more 
likely to have happened. So she thought RSA had reasonably investigated the claim and 
settled it as it was entitled to do by the policys terms and conditions. She also thought it had 
justified the costs it paid for the other drivers claim. 
Mrs H replied that Mr H hadnt changed his story but had said he had tapped the other car at 
a very low speed. She said the only damage done to the other car was a crack in the 
number plate. She said RSA hadnt conducted a thorough investigation and the witness was 
the other drivers passenger. Mrs H asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs H and Mr H feel frustrated that a fault claim was recorded on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database and that this has affected their 
premiums. 
I can see that Mr H now accepts that he was involved in the incident and that he had hit the 
other car whilst manoeuvring at low speed. So I wont consider this aspect of the complaint 
further. Whats left for me to consider is how RSA dealt with and settled the claim. RSA 
recorded the claim as a fault against Mr H. 
It isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the 
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer 
made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mr H the same as someone else in his 
position. 
RSA is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs H to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mrs H has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of a claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I do not find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision about settling it. 
RSA received allegations of an incident caused by Mr H and so Im satisfied that it was then 
obliged to open a claim and to investigate this. The allegations were that Mr H had reversed 
into the other car and cracked the number plate and bumper. The other driver had Mr Hs 
name and registration number, so I think details must have been exchanged at the scene. 
Details of an independent witness were also provided.
RSA then tried to contact Mrs H and Mr H to get their version of events. It tried to contact 
them by phone, letter and text. RSA eventually made contact with Mr H by phone a month 
after the incident. He said he was aware of it and would call back. Mrs H emailed to say that 
she had no recall of the incident. But no further response was made until RSA called Mr H a 
further month later. 
Ive listened to this call. Mr H said the other driver had hit his car whilst he was stationary. 
But RSA said that it wouldnt be able to defend this because of the independent witness and 
the claim would be a fault. Mrs H said recently that the witness was a passenger in the other 
drivers car. But Mr H didnt raise this in the call. RSA explained that the other witness was 
independent. 
RSA told Mr H that it would have to settle the claim as fault because it was unable to defend 
the claim. RSA, as Ive said above, is entitled to minimise claim costs. And so I think it was 
reasonable for it to settle the other drivers claim in these particular circumstances. 
Mrs H later told us that Mr H did agree that he had tapped the other car whilst manoeuvring 
but she disputed the amount of damage claimed. But I can see that this was supported by 
expert engineering evidence as consistent with the circumstances. And I dont think its 
unusual for further damage to come to light when repairs are started. The claim also 
included hire costs.
So I think RSA reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available 
before deciding to settle it, in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. I think it made 
reasonable attempts to contact Mr H for his version of events. And I think it justified the costs 
it paid to settle the claim. So I cant see that it acted unfairly or unreasonably or needs to 
remove records of the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman