DRN-4376158
The complaint
A limited company, which I will call L, has complained that Tower Insurance Broker Ltd 
mis-sold its business insurance policy, as it did not provide cover for its losses arising out of 
the Covid-19 pandemic.  
Mr C and Mrs C, as directors of L, have brought the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
L took out an insurance policy, which included business interruption cover, through Tower in 
October 2019.
L was impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020 and 
wanted to claim for its business interruption losses as a result. However, the insurer told L it 
did not have cover for losses caused by infectious diseases. This cover was available as an 
optional extension to the core business interruption cover in the policy but was not taken 
when the policy started.
Mr C and Mrs C are very unhappy about this and say the various optional extensions to the 
business interruption cover were never discussed at the time Tower sold L the policy and it 
never agreed to exclude the disease cover from the policy. They say that if Tower had 
included this extension in the policy, L would have been covered for its losses, as the policy 
was one of the ones that the courts determined would have provided cover for Covid-19 
related claims in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) business interruption test case.
Mr C and Mrs C therefore say the policy was mis-sold and want Tower to compensate L for 
the value of the claim it was unable to make. Mr C and Mrs C said the business (a leisure 
and fitness venue) was newly formed in 2019 and they relied on Tower to advise on full 
robust insurance coverage, which it failed to do. They have suffered financial hardship as a 
result of the pandemic and not being able to claim under the insurance policy. They have 
had to sell their home and are in rented accommodation. The situation has also severely 
impacted their health. 
Tower says L asked it to provide business insurance cover within two days, which it did. It 
provided a policy consistent with Ls needs in October 2019 and there was no suggestion of 
any need for infectious diseases cover at that time and a pandemic was not in anyones 
minds at the time. The policy it recommended had the standard extension to the business 
interruption cover for prevention or denial of access to its premises but the disease 
extension was not standard. Tower says Mr C and Mrs C are considering this with the 
benefit of hindsight, rather than what would have actually been important at the time the 
policy was taken out. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend it be upheld, as he 
was satisfied that the policy was not mis-sold.  
L does not accept the Investigators assessment. 
Mr C and Mrs C says they are a leisure business with facilities for up to 250 people, with a 
commercial kitchen and caf catering for over 160 people at a time. They say between 
160,000 and 190,000 would enter the premises annually. They would therefore be 
considered a place where transmittable diseases would be likely and would pose a risk to 
the business; this would include not just Covid-19 but infections such as norovirus, 
Legionnaires Disease and others. Mr C and Mrs C therefore say they had an insurance 
need for disease cover that should have been identified.
Mr C and Mrs C also say that the notifiable disease extension would have provided cover for 
not only notifiable diseases occurring in the vicinity of Ls premises but also interruption 
caused by organisms at the premises, food or drink poisoning and vermin and pests at the 
premises. As they operate a large kitchen and catering side to the business, cover for food 
and drink poisoning would also be relevant as food borne diseases could have seriously 
impacted their business. And again, because to the nature of the business and its location, 
cover for any effects of vermin would also have been needed. 
Mr C and Mrs C therefore say that all of the subsections of the notifiable disease extension 
were relevant to L in October 2019 and should have been discussed with them and added to 
the policy. Tower should have provided a policy that covered all possible eventualities.
Mr C and Mrs C also say the Investigator suggested they would have known about the 
disease extension from the documents sent to them and could have asked for it to be added 
if they thought it was needed. However, they say that the policy started on 18 October 2019, 
the business interruption section of cover was added on 7 December 2019, when they 
opened, and the final documentation was only sent to L on 9 January 2020.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had such a 
significant impact on L and Mr C and Mrs C. There is no doubt from what they have said that 
this has been an extremely difficult time for them. However, I am not going to uphold its 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
The rules about the selling of insurance are set out in the Insurance Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (ICOBS) which is contained in the FCA Handbook. ICOBS says that those 
selling insurance have a responsibility to provide clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the cover being provided, in order to put the customer in a position where they can 
make an informed choice about the insurance they are buying. This includes providing clear 
information about the main cover and any significant terms. If the seller is also making a 
recommendation or advising a customer to take a particular policy, then they should specify 
the customers demands and needs and propose a policy thats consistent with them as far 
as is reasonably possible and take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice.
Tower accepts that this was an advised sale, so it had an obligation to ensure the suitability 
of its advice. 
Tower discussed Ls insurance needs with Mr C and Mrs C in October 2019 and I have 
considered the report it produced as a result of that discussion. The report specified that L 
needed a competitively priced policy and recommended a policy which provided cover for 
various events that might befall a business such as Ls, including property damage and 
business interruption. I can see that Tower sent L the policy quotation documents on 30 October 2019 prior to the 
business starting to operate. L received further documents in December 2019 when the 
business interruption cover was added and the final documents were sent on 9 January 
2020. Tower says the business interruption cover was only needed once L started to operate 
and the insurers took into account the fact it was only providing 10 months of business 
interruption cover when pricing the policy. However, Tower says that each of these sets of 
documents clearly set out the optional extensions to the business interruption cover and 
which ones were operational or not. Tower also says that they could have been reviewed 
and changes made to the policy at any of these points.  
I have read these documents carefully. I can see the policy documents sent in October 2019, 
confirmed there was no cover for business interruption at that time but it did still set out the 
business interruption cover that would be available if selected. This included business 
interruption as a result of one of the events that might lead to physical damage to the 
premises and the optional extensions available to the core business interruption cover, 
including the infectious disease extension. 
The documents sent in December 2019 also set out the cover clearly and in relation to the 
business interruption section lists the extensions to this section which are operative and 
states clearly infectious diseases was not operative but that the public utilities (which 
provided cover in the failure of utilities affecting L) and prevention of access (which 
provided cover for interference to the business as a result of loss or destruction of property 
within the vicinity of Ls premises that meant L could not access the premises and operate) 
extensions were operative. 
I think the documentation is sufficiently clear and not misleading, such that L could 
understand the cover provided. There is no evidence that L raised any queries or asked any 
questions about the business interruption extensions. 
However, I have to consider also whether Tower ensured the advice was suitable. 
I have not seen whether there was any particular discussion around the addition of the 
public utilities and prevention of access extensions to cover. It seems to me these were 
reasonable recommendations, as I consider they were more likely risks to the business and 
if these events had occurred they potentially could have caused significant loss to L. Tower 
says these were standard extensions with this policy. It seems to me from the documents 
that theyd still have to be opted for but I can see they might be the options that Tower would 
opt for as standard, as they are ones that most businesses would likely want cover for.   
Tower accepts that it did not discuss the possible extension of cover for notifiable diseases 
with L but says that even if it should have done so, it would not have recommended L take it. 
And it says it is also unlikely L would have taken it even if it had, as it was not something that 
most businesses would have been concerned about in October/December 2019. Tower says 
that, in normal circumstances, even if any of the events covered under the notifiable 
diseases extension had occurred no-one would have had reason to believe theyd have 
caused any significant business interruption losses, as any occurrence of disease, presence 
of vermin or food poisoning would have only meant a short term closure or restriction to 
operating. No-one in late 2019 would have anticipated that businesses would have been 
required to close for long periods as happened as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr C and Mrs C say that the events covered under the disease extension were things it 
would have been concerned about having cover for. I also note that Tower has said the 
difference in premium, if the disease extension had been added, would have been minimal but there would have been a difference, otherwise it would have been included as part of the 
standard cover. 
I have thought carefully about what both parties have said.
While the presence of rats or other vermin and pests, as well as food and drink poisoning, 
could be a consideration for any business, especially one that has a catering side, it seems 
to me that this would not be something that would be anticipated to cause significant loss to 
a business. I agree with Tower that in late 2019 most people would have considered that any 
such event would likely be dealt with quickly and would not usually lead to closure of the 
business for any length of time or any significant business interruption losses. Given this, I 
am not persuaded that this would have been a particular consideration for L when the policy 
was taken out. 
I also note that L is a busy venue with lots of people in close proximity to each other, so any 
notifiable diseases (not just Covid-19) would be easily transmitted by Ls customers and 
staff. However again, I am not persuaded that this would have been a significant concern in 
October 2019, as at that time there would have been no reason to think that any occurrence 
of a notifiable disease would have led to any significant loss. It seems to me that most 
people would have expected any such event to be cleared up in a short time and (maybe 
requiring some cleaning of the premises and some cancelled bookings etc) no one would 
have anticipated the long-term closures that happened as a result of Covid-19. 
Having considered everything provided to me, I am not persuaded that cover for any of the 
events in the disease extension was something which was particularly relevant to L at the 
time it bought the policy. I cant see that L asked for, or gave, any information that would 
mean that disease cover was particularly important to it in October or December 2019. 
Mr C and Mrs C says that they were relying on Towers expertise to provide them with a 
suitable policy to cover every eventuality but no policy of insurance will cover every 
eventuality. Different policies cover different risks and I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that Tower sold L a policy that wasnt consistent with its demands and needs at the time. 
Overall therefore, I dont believe that Tower did anything wrong in recommending the policy 
it did. I understand Mr C and Mrs C were frustrated to find that the policy didnt provide cover 
for Covid-19 losses but I think Tower proposed a policy that was consistent with Ls 
demands and needs and provided information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I also 
think it took reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice, so it follows that I dont 
think Tower mis-sold this policy.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthyOmbudsman