DRN-4189933
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc wrongly gave their personal data 
to a broker. They ask for a significant financial gesture.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have a mortgage with TMW. The mortgage application had been made via a 
broker. Mr and Mrs J accept that the broker had consent to deal with their mortgage 
application, but say this consent expired when the application was completed.
Mr and Mrs J say that TMW gave information about their mortgage to the broker without their 
consent. They say this caused them stress and anxiety. 
TMW said it didnt give the broker information about Mr and Mrs Js mortgage or any 
personal data. It said it gave the broker generic information about its processes. 
Our investigator said there was no evidence that TMW had given the broker Mr and Mrs Js 
personal data.
Mr J said even if there was no data breach, TMW had accessed their account without their 
consent in order to provide information to a third party. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Businesses have obligations related to their customers personal information. For example, 
they are required to use the information fairly and lawfully, keep it secure and to delete it 
when its no longer needed. TMW holds information about Mr and Mrs J and their mortgage 
account. 
In September 2022, TMW received a query by email from a broker. This said The clients 
intention is to change the property to HMO [a house in multiple occupation] in the next year 
so the question is, is the switch that has been applied suitable for that purposeor would 
the client need to re-mortgage to a HMO deal? 
TMWs response said The advice I have seen is that he should notify us of the change but 
we wont make a product change until his next rate expiry. 
I cant see that the email TMW received referred to Mr and Mrs J or their account. From what 
Mr J has said, the broker had previously made an application to TMW on behalf of Mr and 
Mrs J. So presumably Mr and Mrs J think that the person that responded to the email on 
behalf of TMW knew the broker was referring to them. Its likely TMW receives many 
enquiries from brokers. Its possible it didnt know who the brokers client was in this case.
Either way, TMWs response didnt include any names, addresses, account numbers or 
other information related to Mr and Mrs J or their mortgage account. It doesnt refer to a 
particular product. 
TMW says the person writing the email didnt access Mr and Mrs Js mortgage account. It 
says the response provided was generic information about its processes. It says theres no 
record of the email on or attached to Mr and Mrs Js mortgage account. Because theres no 
record attached to Mr and Mrs Js account TMW was unable to locate the email. In 
responding to Mr and Mrs Js complaint, TMW relied on a copy of the email provided by 
Mr J. The name of the staff member that sent the email is redacted. TMW says it doesnt 
know which member of staff sent the email. 
Mr J has put a lot of emphasis on the wording in the email The advice I have seen. Mr J 
considers this to be a reference to advice given when they took out the product, which he 
says means the person writing the email must have accessed their account. I think its more 
likely the person writing the email was referring to having checked the matter with a 
colleague or internal policy. They wouldnt have had to access Mr and Mrs Js mortgage 
account to do this.
Since bringing the complaint to us, Mr J said hed asked TMW to confirm whether their 
current product is the one they took out when they took out the mortgage (which he said was 
due to expire in June 2022) or a new product. He considers the answer to be important, as 
this will establish when the advice referred to in the email was given. But, as I said, I think its 
more likely the writer was referring to having checked with a colleague or an internal policy.
Mr J said we should require TMW to provide details of all correspondence and notes. But 
TMW says theres no record related to the email on Mr and Mrs Js account. So I cant see 
that asking TMW for all of the notes and correspondence for Mr and Mrs Js mortgage 
account will provide any relevant evidence. I dont think its reasonable to ask for this. 
I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that TMW provided Mr and Mrs Js personal 
information to a third party. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to 
pay compensation or take further steps in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman