DRN-1880758
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) have lost some of her 
premium bonds. 
What happened
In early 2019, NS&I sent Mrs L a letter setting out the premium bonds they had registered to 
Mrs L on their system. This showed £29,000 worth of premium bonds, of which £1,000 were 
issued in 1986, £1,000 in 1994, and the remainder in 2010. 
Mrs L was upset when she saw this letter as she said she had also bought £1,000 worth of 
premium bonds in 1984. She has the original certificate for the premium bonds purchased in 
1984 (the 1984 bonds). And she said if shed cashed them in  she wouldnt have the 
certificate any more - as it would have been retained by the post office. 
As well as the reference numbers on the bonds, NS&I also have a unique holder number 
for Mrs L (effectively a customer reference number). But when the 1984 bonds were issued, 
they didnt have the holder number printed on them.
NS&I told Mrs L that their records showed that the 1984 bonds had been repaid, but not the 
date of the repayment. They said that they dont keep all the data from that long ago but they 
could see the 1984 bonds were no longer valid. And they said they had procedures in place 
so that customers could still cash their bonds in even if they had lost their certificates  so 
they felt that the fact that Mrs L still had the bond certificate wasnt proof that they hadnt 
been cashed in.
Mrs L wasnt happy with NS&Is response so she came to our service. Our investigator 
reviewed the case and said that on the balance of probabilities he thought it was more likely 
than not that Mrs L hadnt cashed in the bonds and they should still be on her account. This 
was primarily based on Mrs Ls history of not having cashed out any of her other bonds.
NS&I disagreed, and they found some more evidence to share with us. They said the 1984 
bonds were associated with a different holder number to that of Mrs L. And they said the 
bonds were repaid to this other holder by cheque in 1994. Our investigator didnt think this 
additional information changed his view and so the case came to me.
I issued my provisional decision on 14 May 2020. In my provisional decision I explained that 
I found NS&Is evidence persuasive and I was provisionally satisfied that NS&I had repaid 
the 1984 bonds in 1994. I said NS&I had suggested a possible explanation might have been 
that Mrs L held the certificate for a family member  but I explained I didnt need to decide 
exactly what had happened  just whether NS&I had treated Mrs L fairly and reasonably.
Mrs L replied to my provisional decision asking who the cheque had been made payable to. 
NS&I confirmed they had the name of the holder of the 1984 bonds (to whom they wrote the 
cheque) but werent able to disclose this to Mrs L due to data protection regulations. They 
sympathised with Mrs L and suggested her family members write to NS&I saying theyd be 
able to disclose the information to the former holder of the 1984 bonds.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The additional correspondence Ive had with Mrs L and NS&I hasnt changed my decision  
Im satisfied the 1984 bonds have been repaid and the certificate Mrs L holds is no longer 
valid. 
I can understand why this has upset Mrs L and I can understand why shed like to know who 
NS&I identified as the holder of the 1984 bonds when she thought they were hers. So Ive 
considered whether NS&I need to disclose the identity of the former holder of the 1984 
bonds to Mrs L. 
Im aware that this additional information would help Mrs L to understand why she holds 
£1,000 less in premium bonds than she thought. But Im satisfied that it wouldnt change her 
financial position. And NS&I have a legal obligation and a duty to protect their customers 
personal data and financial information. On balance, Im satisfied its more important that 
NS&I protect their customers data. So I wont be directing NS&I to disclose the identity of 
the former holder of the 1984 bonds to Mrs L.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Clare King
Ombudsman