DRN-2530165
The complaint
 Mr N complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited refused to return all of 
his deposit when it agreed to the rejection of a faulty car. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr N entered into a contract with the dealership to acquire a car. He paid a deposit of 
£10,302 and the balance was funded by a hire purchase agreement with MBFS. It has been 
accepted that the car was faulty and MBFS agreed to its rejection. The car spent a 
considerable amount of time in the garage during the period Mr N had use of it.
The deposit wasnt paid as part of the HP agreement, but it was a separate contribution from 
Mr N. I believe it was made up of a cash deposit and a part exchange. Mr N didnt have a 
lease agreement where the upfront payment is a sum paid for the use of the car. If that had 
been the case then I would be treating it as such. However, he made a payment towards 
ownership of the car. I mention this since MBFS has calculated the refund based on the 
unutilised portion of his deposit.
MBFS has put forward arguments comparing the investigators proposals against another 
hypothetical scenario where the consumer had paid a different deposit and as a result 
different monthly payments. I appreciate why it has done so, but I am not convinced by that 
line of reasoning. My role is to consider what is fair and reasonable for each individual 
consumer who brings a complaint and in this case I have to look at the overall position. That 
means I have to consider the combined payments made by Mr N and not treat them 
separately.  
Mr N had limited use of a car costing £46,240 over a period of some 14 months. The car was 
in the garage for repairs on numerous occasions and I note he only covered some 4,000 
miles in the first year. His agreement allows for him to cover 10,000 miles a year. I would 
add that I recognise that he was provided with courtesy cars, but that does not take away 
from the fact that he was without the use of his car on many occasions.  
MBFS offered Mr N a refund of 10% of his monthly payments and what it describes as the 
unutilised portion of his deposit which was £7,297.32. That means it considers he should pay 
over £8,000 for the limited use of a clearly faulty car. I do not think that is a fair outcome. Mr 
N had every reason to believe that he was acquiring a quality car which would be reliable. 
That did not turn out to be the case.
It is reasonable that he pays for fair usage, but as I have noted above, he didnt have a great 
deal of use of the car and given the list of many different faults I doubt that his use could be 
said to have been enjoyable. For example, having a sunroof opening randomly and 
sometimes overnight means it would be extremely risky to leave the car parked in any place 
other than a secure garage. 
Putting things right
Therefore, I dont consider the proposal put forward by MBFS is fair or reasonable when 
taken in its totality. I believe returning the full deposit is the fairest way of addressing the 
situation and paying interest on it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to refund the full deposit paid by Mr N and pay annual simple interest at 
8& from the date paid until it is returned. That means Mr N is owed a further £3,004.78 plus 
interest on that sum and the sum already repaid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman