DRN-3041090
The complaint
Mr D has complained MBNA Limited wont refund him for numerous transactions he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
In the first fortnight of June 2019 Mr D went overseas. Both his debit card and his MBNA 
credit card were stolen he believes and used without his authorisation. When he got back 
home he complained to MBNA (and the bank where he held a current account, who Ill call 
B). On 18 June 2019 B refunded more than 60 individual transactions along with matching 
fees originally charged to his account.
MBNA wouldnt make refunds for a similar number of disputed transactions (often conducted 
at the same spot as those transactions with Mr Ds debit card with B). They felt Mr D had a 
history of losing his cards and fraud occurring when away so they wondered whether he had 
been completely honest. They also identified some transactions which had been completed 
fraudulently taking place at exactly the same location as Mr D using another credit card (with 
H).
Mr D was unhappy with how MBNA dealt with his complaint. He brought this to the 
ombudsman service. He also had other complaints being considered by our service.
Our investigator saw MBNA couldnt provide evidence to show Mr D had authorised the 
disputed transactions. The disputed transactions had all been authenticated by signature or 
were contactless. He also noted B had refunded Mr D for disputed transactions over the 
same period. Overall he felt it was most likely Mr D hadnt authorised the disputed 
transactions. He asked MBNA to refund them in full.
MBNA provided a robust defence of their position. They continued to believe Mr D had a 
history of fraudulent claims and were concerned he was still not taking appropriate care of 
his credit and debit cards.
Mr D accepted this outcome but also felt MBNA should be paying him additional 
compensation. 
A considerable time had now passed since his original complaint. The complaint was passed 
to an ombudsman for decision.
I completed a provisional decision on 12 August 2021. I didnt believe Mr Ds credit card had 
been stolen at all. There were too many coincidences of use of his cards at the same place 
as Mr D was also making undisputed transactions for me to uphold his complaint.
Mr D vociferously disagreed with my provisional outcome. He felt two individuals at our 
service had upheld his complaints so didnt understand how an ombudsman could come to 
another decision.
No response was received from MBNA.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than Mr D and MBNA. 
Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all 
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
I know Mr D has a number of live complaints at our service, not just about his disputed 
transactions with MBNA but other aspects of his account relationship with B and other credit 
card relationships. Im sure that will have made it difficult to keep abreast of all the differing 
detail of his complaints so Id like to reassure him that Ive reviewed this complaint afresh.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by MBNA and Mr D. 
Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 17 June 2021 but feel no need to rerun 
some of the arguments made there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which drive the 
decision Im making.
I have considered Mr Ds most recent comments about my provisional decision. Both himself 
and MBNA were able to refer a complaint to an ombudsman. MBNA didnt agree with our 
investigators view so the complaint was referred to an ombudsman for decision. My decision 
on this matter is final and may differ to the conclusion an investigator reached and who had 
considered the complaint before me. I explained in my provisional decision, and again 
below, why I believe the evidence runs contrary to what Mr D has told us.
Were the transactions authorised?
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ds complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing thats had a 
major impact when I consider these transactions were made with a credit card.
Theres no dispute all the transactions happened after Mr D used his credit card to take out 
cash from a cash machine on 10 June 2019. Ive seen the authorisation logs for the transactions which show Mr D disputed all the transactions carried out from later on 10 June 
to 17 June when the card was declined.
Mr D also had his debit card with B stolen and used without his consent. However oddly this 
appears to have gone missing and used fraudulently before his MBNA credit card was 
stolen. Its certainly possible that someone who worked at the hotel Mr D was staying in took 
advantage of his belongings twice. But Mr D told MBNA he was unhappy with his first hotel 
and ended up moving elsewhere. So that seems unlikely. This would make Mr D very 
unfortunate to have two separate cards stolen at two separate times (and as shown below 
for those both to be used fraudulently in the same places).
In looking at the authorisation logs I can see after Mr Ds credit card was stolen, it was used 
at the same place on 14 June as Mr Ds credit card with H which never went missing. That 
also seems like an unusual coincidence.
Ive looked further at a number of occasions when Mr D used his credit card with H after the 
debit card with B (supposedly stolen at the time) was declined in exactly the same outlet. 
This happened four times on 9 June at three different places and again in the early hours of 
10 June. There are also at least three other occasions when Mr Ds MBNA credit card was 
used after debit card use was declined. Im aware that both of these cards were supposedly 
not in Mr Ds possession. They could have been used fraudulently at the same places. But 
the connection between the use of all three cards suggest to me these were most likely still 
in Mr Ds possession.
Ive also looked briefly at Mr Ds history with his MBNA credit card. A few months earlier, 
Mr D had also been overseas. He initially disputed a transaction at a villa as fraudulent. He 
then accepted this had been authorised by him and went on to raise a dispute about the 
condition of the villa.
Im aware that B refunded Mr D for the transactions he disputed in June 2019. Thats a 
decision for B to have made  that doesnt mean on its own that all other transactions at the 
time must also have been fraudulent. B may well have made the decision to refund the 
transactions for a number of service-related reasons. 
Overall I believe the evidence points to Mr D having most likely authorised the transactions 
made with his MBNA credit card after 10 June 2019.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ds complaint against MBNA 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman