DRN-4488901
The complaint
B, a limited company, has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered insufficient 
compensation following their actions leading to B being a victim of fraud.
What happened
Mrs G, one of the three directors of B, is representing them in this complaint.
In April 2023 B was a victim of fraud. Someone saying they were Mr G, the son of Mrs G, 
contacted Barclays. They got a phone number associated with the account changed. Then 
two days later using telephone banking, the fraudster got Barclays to make two payments 
amounting to £29,822.03.
Mrs G immediately realised these payments were fraudulent and contacted Barclays. 
Barclays admitted the error was theirs, refunded the money within 10 working days and 
offered B £1,000 compensation for what had happened.
Dissatisfied with that offer, Mrs G brought Bs complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator believed that this offer was more than shed have recommended Barclays to 
pay. She also noted Barclays had declined to fulfil Bs request for phone calls under GDPR 
regulations. She confirmed our service would be unable to rule on that aspect as we werent 
the regulator for data protection issues.
Mrs G remained unhappy with the resolution being offered to B. Shes asked an ombudsman 
to consider Bs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly I should confirm that Im not considering how the fraud took place  although Im 
aware of this aspect  as this isnt the crucial aspect of Bs complaint. We decide 
compensation payable to small businesses on the basis of the impact on the business, 
rather than, for example, the severity of the banking error in itself. I am also unable to 
consider the emotional impact on Mrs G and other directors of B. I dont doubt this must 
have been considerable but isnt, under our rules, what compensation payable to businesses 
covers.
I dont wish to underestimate the event here. Theres no doubt that what happened was a 
severe mistake by Barclays. They admitted as much themselves when they confirmed this 
should never have happened in their final response to B.
Mrs G has confirmed B had additional expenses. These entailed:
An additional 33 hours payment to a member of staff over two months whilst Mrs G 
was committed to sorting out Barclays error. This amounted to £396.
Cost of phone calls over and above normal usage. Bills show these total £22.78.
Subscriptions to credit agencies to help identify any attempt to takeover further 
business accounts. No amount has been specifically confirmed.
Mrs G has also said B lost out on further business opportunities because of the time she had 
to spend devoted to sorting out issues following Bs financial loss. I have noted this, but 
Mrs G has been unable to quantify what this amounts to. I believe it would be inappropriate 
to provide B compensation for something that is unable to be quantified.
Im sorry to tell Mrs G that I agree with our investigator. I believe that Barclays offer of 
£1,000 along with the cost of phone calls is fair and reasonable. Id have decided that £500 
compensation should be payable to B, and added the additional costs, as quoted above. 
This means £1,000 is a reasonable offer.
Ive noted how distressed Mrs G has been by Barclays telling her they wouldnt provide B 
with access to the calls made by the fraudster. I can see why Barclays made this decision 
but if Mrs G wants to pursue this on Bs behalf, she will have to raise this with the 
Information Commissioners Office. I should add I completely appreciate why she feels as 
she does and Im sure shell still feel she and B have been badly treated by Barclays.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay B 
£1,000 compensation along with £22.78 costs for phone calls.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman