DRN-3342803
The complaint
Mr S complains about the time taken to deposit cheques at a  Santander UK plc (Santander) 
branch,  and about the level of service received. He would like an apology and £50 
compensation.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:_
Its unfortunate  Mr S couldnt pay his cheques in using the ATM machine due to an 
issue with the dates on the cheques. I appreciate this would have been frustrating for 
Mr S but its not something I think Santander can be held responsible for.
In terms of the time taken to pay the cheques in at the counter. Santanders records 
show Mr S tried to deposit the cheques in the ATM machine at 14.30, the cheques 
were finally deposited by a member of staff at 14.38. I appreciate Mr S doesnt feel 
eight minutes for this transaction is reasonable, but I dont agree  it doesnt seem to 
me to be an extraordinary length of time given there was an issue with the cheques 
which, whilst this wasnt  Mr Ss fault, neither was it Santanders.
Looking at the service Mr S received I have already concluded that the time taken to 
process the cheques wasnt unreasonable. Mr S has also said a member of staff 
called him rude. I can see Santander investigated this,  so I do believe it took this  
seriously. Its investigation showed  it was a customer who made the comment not a 
member of staff. Its very difficult when there is a disagreement as to what happened, 
if other customers were present at the time its possible this comment was made by 
one of them. But I dont have any evidence to confirm that it was a member of 
Santanders staff who made this comment.
As I havent found Santander to be at fault, I cant reasonably ask it to apologise and 
to pay compensation as Mr S would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman