DRN-4162762
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that PrePay Technologies Limited applied inactivity fees to his account.
What happened
Mr M had 42 Euros on a prepaid currency card which was administer by PrePay. Mr M didnt 
use the card for a prolonged period, and when he checked the card, he found that PrePay 
had applied inactivity fees which had fully eroded the balance of the card over time. Mr M 
wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
PrePay responded to Mr M and explained that the inactivity fees were detailed in the terms 
and conditions of the card. Mr M wasnt satisfied with PrePays response, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel PrePay had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr M purchased the PrePay card, which he did from a currency exchange bureau in 
August 2019, the card was in a sealed envelope which contained the card itself as well as a 
user guide and the terms and conditions of the card. And those terms and conditions 
included details of all the fees that could potentially be applied to the card  including the 
inactivity fee, which is described as follows:
Fee charged after a 12-month period of you not using the card (either by topping up 
your card, paying for transactions, or withdrawing money), including after your card 
has expired. No fee is you a zero balance.
The statements for Mr Ms card show that he last used the card in September 2019 and that 
PrePay first applied the inactivity fee in October 2020. This was twelve months after Mr M 
had last used the card, and so Im satisfied that PrePay applied the inactivity fee in line with 
the stated terms and conditions of the card.  
Mr M has explained that the social restrictions that were in place because of Covid-19 meant 
that he wasnt able to travel for a long period, which is why he didnt use the card. And he 
feels that the inactivity fee is unfair because of this. 
I can appreciate Mr Ms position here, to a degree. But Mr M didnt have to leave his money 
on the card and could have moved the funds into his GBP purse to enable him to use the 
card within the UK. Or, he could have withdrawn the money from the card at any time, either 
by telephone or by visiting a bureau in person. 
Additionally, as explained above, the inactivity fee is stated and described in the terms of the 
PrePay card. And, as the purchaser and account holder, it was Mr Ms responsibility to have 
understood these terms and to have been aware of the inactivity fee. Accordingly, I dont feel 
that PrePay have done anything wrong or unfair by applying the fee to the balance on Mr 
Ms card in line with their stated terms as they did. 
Mr M also feels that PrePay have acted unfairly by applying the month inactivity fee to his 
balance without notification. But Mr M was notified of the fee via the account terms he 
received with the card at the time of purchase. And as previously stated, it was Mr Ms 
responsibility to understand the card terms, including any applicable fees. 
Furthermore, PrePay have confirmed that for all UK card holders, if any transactions are 
made on a card in a certain month, including the application of an inactivity fee, a notice is 
sent to the card holder at the contact details that account holder has registered with them, 
advising them that there have been transactions on the account. 
This means that PrePay sent notifications to Mr M stating that there were transactions 
occurring on the card for every month that they applied an inactivity fee. And given that Mr M 
wasnt using the card at this time, I feel that this should reasonably have prompted him to 
have checked his card balance and to have taken steps to either use the card so as to nullify 
the fees or withdraw the card balance, if he was unhappy with those fees.
All of which means that I dont feel that PrePay have acted unfairly here as Mr M contends. 
And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing PrePay to take 
any further action. This is because it was Mr Ms responsibility to have been aware of the 
inactivity fee, which was stated and described in the cards terms and conditions, and 
because PrePay have correctly applied that fee in line with the card terms.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman