DRN-3275400
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the poor service he received from Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited when he made a claim under his car insurance policy for vandalism.
What happened
Mr Cs car was vandalised and he contacted his insurer, Admiral in April 2021. He 
complained to Admiral as he said its communication was poor and he had to regularly chase 
for updates. He didnt receive a call back when agreed in May 2021. Mr C said he was 
without a car for two weeks and no courtesy car was provided by Admiral. When his car 
went into storage, Admiral failed to provide any updates. 
In May 2021Admiral upheld Mr Cs complaint. It agreed it had provided a poor service in 
failing to provide any meaningful updates. It said it should have called back when promised. 
Admiral said if it had dealt with the repairs sooner it would have provided Mr C with a 
courtesy car for five days. So Admiral paid Mr C compensation of £160 which was broken 
down as follows:
£100 for the distress and inconvenience its poor service had caused
£10 toward the costs of calls Mr C had made to Admiral and;
£50 for five days loss of use without a courtesy car.
Mr C remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought 
Admiral had done enough to put things right  and so she didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. 
Mr C didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When things go wrong we look at what should have happened, what the impact was of the 
error(s) and what the business did to put things right. 
Mr C reported the vandalism to his car on 24 April 2021. He had to call Admiral several times 
for updates on his claim. Repairs were authorised on 6 May 2021 and Mr Cs car was ready 
on 7 May 2021. 
Admirals policy says it will provide a courtesy car for the duration of repairs  so this doesnt 
include the time before then. But Admiral accepts that it should have arranged repairs 
sooner than it did  and had it done so, Mr C would have had use of a courtesy car for five 
days. As Admiral has paid the equivalent of what we use as a daily loss of use rate at £10 a 
day, I think this is fair. And Admiral told Mr C it would consider any further travel expenses 
subject to proof. 
For the distress and inconvenience  and as a contribution toward the costs of calls  
Admiral paid Mr C £110. I understand Mr C believes the compensation paid isnt enough. 
But this amount is in line with awards we give for similar circumstances. Having taken into 
account the overall length of time it took for Admiral to deal with the claim, I dont think 
Admiral needs to increase the compensation amount its already paid. 
I understand Mr C will be disappointed. Dealing with any claim will inevitably involve some 
inconvenience and disruption. But taking everything into account, I think Admiral has acted 
reasonably. So Im not asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman