DRN-2376479
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F are unhappy about the standard of workmanship by Society of Lloyds (SOL) 
following a claim under the accidental damage part of their home insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr F and Mrs F contacted SOL to make an insurance claim following accidental damage to 
their kitchen worktop due to a hot pan being placed on the surface. SOL initially sent a 
contractor (Company A) to repair the worktop. However, the contractor identified that the 
damage was more severe than expected, so a new worktop would need to be fitted. This 
was fitted by Company B and the claim was closed.
Several months after the new worktop was fitted, Mr F contacted SOL to complain that water 
had got into the work surface and caused bubbling. He said this was due to poor 
workmanship or a defective product. SOL disagreed and said that the most likely reason for 
the problem with the worktop was a pre-existing issue before the new worktop was installed, 
for which it was not responsible.
Mr F and Mrs F complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt 
think the evidence showed that the worktop issues were the result of a pre-existing issue. 
She thought it showed that it was because of how the new worktop was installed. She said 
SOL should replace the worktop and pay £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
As SOL did not agree with the investigators findings, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 18 November 2020. In my provisional decision I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
SOL has said that the damage to the new worktop was due to a pre-existing issue. It said 
that the level of the units was slightly out, which caused the joint to slightly separate and for 
the worktop to raise by a few millimetres. It said that the worktop wasnt misaligned when the 
replacement was completed and that it thought the issue with the worktop was due to the 
pre-existing issue with the level of the units. I note that this view was based on an 
assessment carried out by the company that installed the new worktop.
SOL provided photos that it said showed the misaligned worktop. One photo was from 
Company Bs initial survey visit and the second photo was from when it went to look at the 
issue reported by Mr F and Mrs F following the installation. I looked at these photos and 
couldnt see a misalignment, although I could see a dark mark on the first photo on the 
curved part of the join. Mr F and Mrs F also provided a photo of the worktop with a coin on 
the join as evidence that there wasnt a misalignment. So I asked SOL to show me where 
the worktop was misaligned and asked it to consider the photo provided by Mr F and Mrs F. 
When SOL replied, it sent the same two photos it had previously provided as evidence of the 
misalignment and said they showed the worktop was raised. It didnt comment on Mr F and 
Mrs Fs photo beyond saying that the photos clearly showed a misalignment. Ive looked at 
the photos again and still cant see that they show that the worktop was misaligned. Ive also 
looked at a photo that SOL previously provided to this service, which it sent to Company A 
when it was appointed to repair the damage. This showed three burn marks on the worktop, 
one of which seemed to directly align with where the two worktops joined. However, this 
burn mark seemed to have been removed by the time Company B carried out its initial visit, 
as there were only two burn marks in its photo. 
Im aware that Company A spent two hours at Mr F and Mrs Fs home before deciding that 
the worktop couldnt be repaired. Company A also said that it started to carry out the repair, 
so I think this is likely to explain why there is a difference between the photos and the 
amount of damage shown. But, I think this also shows that the first photo of the damage that 
SOL said showed a misalignment was actually a photo of the worktop after some work had 
been carried out by Company A on its behalf. The only issue I can see in Company Bs 
photo is some sort of issue with the join that aligns with the burn mark that appears to have 
been removed before Company Bs visit. This suggests to me that there was damage to that 
part of the worktop that formed part of this claim and that work was carried out on that 
section by Company A that wasnt entirely completed. But, I havent seen evidence that 
causes me to think that the worktop was misaligned before Company B started its work. Im 
also aware that Company B didnt raise any concerns about a misalignment with Mr F and 
Mrs F at the time it replaced the worktop, which I might have expected it to do in the 
circumstances.
Ive also looked at the photo provided by Mr F and Mrs F, which was taken much closer up, 
and showed a coin placed on the new worktop on the joint that SOL said was misaligned. In 
my view, the coin looked like it was sitting flat on the surface and with no sign of a 
misalignment. So, I havent seen evidence that causes me to think that the worktop was 
misaligned either before or after the worktop was replaced. This also means that I havent 
seen evidence that makes me think there was a pre-existing issue.
So, the next issue is whether I think that the cause of the bubbling to the worktop was as a 
result of the installation. Mr F and Mrs F said that they thought jointing compound hadnt 
been applied to the join between the existing and replacement worktops. I asked SOL about 
this and it provided a copy of an invoice from the kitchen supplier that showed that jointing 
compound was provided along with the new worktop. Im aware that jointing compound 
being supplied by the kitchen company doesnt mean that the installer actually used it. But, 
even if the installer did use it on the join, the worktop bubbled along the line of that join, so I 
think there was an issue with it. 
The worktop had only been installed a few months previously and I wouldnt expect liquid to 
be able to get into the join where it did unless there was some issue with the worktop or how 
the join was sealed. As Ive already said, I dont think that was a misalignment issue. So, I 
think its more likely than not that the worktop bubbling was caused by the way the worktop 
was installed or an issue with the quality of the worktop. On that basis, I think its SOLs 
responsibility to put this right as, in my view, it either installed a defective product or there 
was an issue with the installation itself. SOL should have carried out a repair that was an 
effective and lasting repair and Im currently of the view that it failed to do that in this case.
So, thinking about all of the above, based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold 
this complaint and require SOL to replace the worktop. Im also minded to say that SOL 
should pay Mr F and Mrs F £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the handling of the claim.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 18 December 2020.Mr F and Mrs F agreed with the decision. They also said that the joint was made in a 
completely new piece of worktop that was manufactured on site by the contractor who fitted 
the worktop. The joint therefore wasnt between a new and existing piece of worktop. It was 
a completely new piece of worktop. Mr F and Mrs F also agreed that because sealant was 
supplied, didnt mean that it was used and said that there was no independent assessment 
of the workmanship and, instead, SOL had taken the contractors word that it has been 
applied. Mr F and Mrs F also confirmed that the previous worktop had been installed more 
than 10 years ago but that the new worktop had only been installed for a few months.
SOL replied and said that I was making a judgement against the evidence of the specialist 
with no evidence to substantiate what I was stating. It couldnt see that I was providing any 
physical evidence of a defective product or installation issue and was also disregarding the 
view of the specialist/ expert.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my previous decision and uphold this complaint in 
line with my provisional decision.
Ive noted the points that Mr F and Mrs F have made, including how the joint that bubbled 
was created and their concerns about the installation of the new worktop and how long it 
lasted.
Ive also thought about the comments made by SOL which, in essence, were that there was 
no evidence to support my findings. As part of looking at this complaint, I considered all of 
the evidence provided in the case by both parties. I looked at what happened throughout the 
claim and went back to SOL with queries and gave it the opportunity to comment further. I 
didnt disregard the evidence of the specialist. However, in my view, other evidence 
outweighed the report provided by SOL and I made my decision about what was most likely 
to have happened in the full context of the case and the evidence provided. SOL hasnt 
provided anything further to cause me to change my view.
  
Putting things right
I require SOL to replace the worktop and to pay Mr F and Mrs F £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of the claim.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld and I require Society of Lloyds to:
Replace the damaged worktop.
Pay Mr F and Mrs F £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman