DRN-2262278
The complaint
Mr Vs complaint is about State Bank Of India (UK) Limited (SBI) providing misleading 
information about the interest rate available to him if he reinvested the funds from his 
maturing savings deposit into another fixed term deposit account. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr V had a savings account that was due to mature on 7 March 2020. SBI sent him a 
maturity instructions letter dated 7 February 2020. This included a table showing the 
interest rates available if Mr V renewed his savings account for different deposit 
terms. The letter noted that loyalty rates were being offered. However, it was noted 
that the rates would be subject to change and were accurate at the time of printing 
the letter. Based on this, I find that SBI had made it clear that the rates available 
could be subject to change.
On 26 February Mr V called SBI to ask about his options at the maturity of his 
savings account. He asked about the interest rates and was told to check the website 
but there were issues and so a call back was arranged. This suggests that Mr V was 
aware that the rates provided in the letter dated 7 February were subject to change 
which was why he called to get confirmation of the rates available to him.
Mr V called SBI on 3 March and discussed his instructions to reinvest the funds from 
his maturing deposit. He asked if the interest rate on his new deposit account would 
be 1.5% and was told yes and was referred to the letter he had previously received 
(which also mentioned a loyalty rate of 1.5%). Based on this call, and the letter Mr V 
had received previously, I think it reasonable that he expected his new deposit 
account to be at rate of 1.5%.
Mr V then sent details of a web page showing the interest rate should have been 
1.75%. While I have looked at the information Mr V has provided, I also note that SBI 
said this was a historic rate. On balance, given the information provided to Mr V 
about the rates available, I find that the rate it was reasonable for Mr V to be 
expecting was 1.5% not 1.75%.
I can understand why Mr V feels the rates were mispresented to him. He should have 
been provided with information on the call on 3 March about the loyalty rates no 
longer being available. However, the remedy for a misrepresentation isnt to require 
the bank to act as though the misrepresentation was correct but instead to 
compensate for any impact the misrepresentation had. While I appreciate Mr V was 
upset that the rate he thought was available to him wasnt, as he was told about this 
before his funds became available for investment, I cannot say this issue caused him 
any financial loss. 
I note Mr Vs comments about the time taken to resolve the issue and the lost interest 
in this period but as SBI contacted him about the rate available to him on 5 March 
2020 (and attempted contact the previous day) I do not find it is liable for any delay in 
Mr V investing his funds.
I have also considered whether Mr V has been treated fairly by SBI. SBI has 
explained that the rate available to Mr V was 1.35% as loyalty rates were removed 
from 1 March (this date was incorrectly referred to in the final response letter as 31 
March, but this mistake was later corrected). Accepting that there was a change in 
the rates on offer from 1 March 2020, I cannot say that Mr V was treated unfairly by 
being provided with the rates that were available at the time of the maturity of his 
savings account. The letter he was sent in February had a deposit interest rate of 
1.35% and it was the loyalty interest rate that was 1.5%. Therefore, the removal of 
the loyalty rate would have resulted (based on the rates in the February letter) in a 
rate of 1.35% being available.
I do accept that Mr V was caused some upset and inconvenience by being told on 3 
March that a rate of 1.5% was available and then a couple of days later being told the 
rate was 1.35%. But I find that the bank did act as soon as it received his instruction 
to ensure he was aware of the interest rate available to him. Therefore, I find the £40 
it paid for this was reasonable.
Overall, as our investigator has explained, SBI will make its own commercial decision 
about what rates are available to its customers. Our role is to ensure that customers 
are treated fairly. Mr V was offered the rate available at the time his funds were 
available for investment and although he didnt receive the service he should have, I 
find that the compensation paid is a reasonable remedy for this.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about State Bank of India (UK) 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman