DRN-4241402
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Covea Insurance plc has ended the claim she made for 
unemployment on a mortgage payment protection insurance policy and is requiring that she 
return the benefit amount that was paid to her.
What happened
Mrs W contacted Covea to make a claim after being made redundant in May 2021. Covea 
accepted the claim and paid out on it up until 21 December 2021. It discontinued the claim at 
that time due to Mrs Ws failure to disclose her directorship of a limited company and her 
work activities relating to that company. Furthermore, Covea cancelled the policy with 
immediate effect and required reimbursement of the £16,515.94 that it had paid out.
Mrs W says she didnt mention her directorship as she didnt think it was relevant. She also 
denies working for the company during the claim period.
I wrote a provisional decision in May 2023 in which I explained why I was thinking of 
upholding the complaint. Covea has provided some additional comments that I will address 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of her claim, as well as providing job search evidence, Mrs W signed a declaration 
every month stating that she had not undertaken any paid or unpaid work.
Mrs W explained that she is a director of a small, home based, family business that is 
essentially run by her husband. The company is loss making and any income just covers 
costs and no wages are drawn by any family members.
Mrs W accepts that she did carry out some duties for the company prior to being made 
redundant from her main employment. However, she says she didnt do so during the claim 
period, mainly due to suffering an injury and being incapacitated.
Coveas investigations found online reviews relating to the company that mentioned Mrs W 
by name. Mrs W says this is probably a case of misattribution as it was actually her daughter 
that the clients would have seen. Another explanation was that clients dont always post 
reviews straight away and therefore the ones in question could relate to before the claim 
period.
Mrs W was interviewed by a claims assessor who concluded that the company could be 
classed as more of a domestic side-line rather than a reliable revenue stream. The 
assessors report said it was difficult to prove the extent of Mrs Ws involvement with the 
company but the evidence suggested some direct activity, even if it was confined to 
administrative duties or meeting and greeting clients.
Id said in my provisional decision that it was reasonable of Covea to conclude that Mrs W 
did have some active involvement in the company and had failed to declare it. However, the 
next point I made was whether it was then fair and reasonable for Covea to end the claim 
and demand the return of the benefit already paid out.
Covea hasnt responded directly to my point about what it would probably have done if Mrs 
W had disclosed a limited involvement in the company. But it did make some other 
comments in response to my provisional decision.
It says it considers this case to be fraudulent and that her failure to disclose her additional 
occupation falls within the definition of deliberate misrepresentation/dishonesty.
There are two parts to fraud. The first is not being truthful. The second is that the 
untruthfulness was put forward by the policyholder with a view to gaining a benefit from the 
policy they werent otherwise entitled to receive.  So, being dishonest to get something you 
would have got anyway  on the true facts  is unlikely to be enough to stop a claim being 
paid. 
I have to decide what the situation most likely was, on a balance of probability.
Mrs W has said that, in reality, client bookings were few and far between. The assessors 
report, having taken into account the available evidence of the companys finances and 
online reviews, doesnt contradict that. And the invoices that Covea requested after the 
assessors visit also suggest that bookings were irregular.
Within the policy terms, the definition of Work is: any paid work of at least 16 hours a week. 
This includes self-employed work and statutory maternity and parental leave but not 
temporary work.
The definition of Unemployed is: having no paid work or temporary work and having a job 
seekers agreementand can prove you are actively seeking work.
As Mrs W wasnt drawing a salary, whatever involvement she had in the company was 
unpaid. 
In my provisional decision I concluded that any unpaid work was probably less than 16 hours 
per week. Coveas response was to ask how that assumption had been reached. Basically, I 
have looked at the evidence provided by both sides to decide it is more likely than not that 
Mrs W was working less than 16 hours per week. Coveas own claims assessors report 
failed to reach any firm conclusion on the level of Mrs Ws work activities for the company.
I had considered her dog breeding activities, including the information she provided to the 
claims assessor about how she came to have puppies for sale. Again, I was satisfied that, 
on a balance of probability that this, together with her activities for the company, would most 
likely still amount to less than 16 hours per week.
Covea has highlighted that Mrs Ws LinkedIn profile openly advertises her as the owner of 
the company. It was already known that she is a director of the company. And this 
information doesnt support an assertion that she was working more than 16 hours per week.
It has also provided a link to a website in which Mrs W is offering her services as a speech 
giver in relation to her lifestyle in running her particular type of company. Mrs W talks about 
giving up the corporate life to live her dream and how the company is a full time job.This information has given me pause for thought. Covea believes this shows Mrs Ws 
intention to run her company whilst receiving claim payments, with no real plan of looking for 
a proper replacement job. 
We asked Mrs W for her comments about this. She says that she only recently set herself up 
on this website to try and stimulate some work but that, so far, she has had no bookings. 
And she characterises the storyline she gives as being marketing speak.
This is another example of Mrs W appearing to be the face of the company whilst 
maintaining that it is really her husbands business. I therefore understand why Covea would 
have concerns. But Coveas initial investigation didnt uncover this website, so I accept Mrs 
Ws explanation that this is something she has undertaken recently. Therefore, it does not 
affect the claim period. And Im not persuaded it is sufficient to demonstrate that she was not 
looking for alternative full-time employment during the claim period.
Covea has set out a number of comments that our adjudicator made in reaching his view. I 
can confirm that I considered every issue that the adjudicator covered off, even if I did not go 
into them in detail in my provisional decision. As Covea will be aware, our two-stage process 
means that the outcome can change once the case is put in front of an ombudsman.
Ive thought carefully about the additional points that Covea has made. However, it has not 
caused me to depart from the outcome I reached in my provisional decision.
I agree that Mrs W failed to disclose that she was carrying out some unpaid work. I certainly 
understand why Covea would see this as a dishonest misrepresentation. However, as set 
out above, I need to consider whether that misrepresentation has resulted in her obtaining a 
benefit to which she was not otherwise entitled.
I remain persuaded that Mrs Ws involvement with the company doesnt meet the definition 
of Work and that she did meet the definition of being Unemployed. As such, I think it is 
more likely than not that, if Mrs W had disclosed the nature of her involvement with the 
company, Covea would have paid out the claim in any event. So not telling Covea about her 
unpaid work did not improve Mrs Ws position or affect the claim.
Putting things right
Covea should withdraw its requirement for Mrs W to return the benefit amount already paid 
out. It should reinstate the policy from the point it was cancelled and continue to assess the 
claim for the remaining available term, disregarding the unpaid work that Mrs W has 
undertaken. If the remaining claim is successful, Covea can retain the amount of any 
premiums due for that period from any further claim payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman