DRN-3564988
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the decision made by Ageas Insurance Limited under his motor 
insurance policy to settle a third party claim following an incident, and record him as being at 
fault for that incident.
What happened
In 2021, whilst driving his car, Mr E was involved in an incident with a cyclist. Mr E states 
that the cyclist drove into his car. When both he and the cyclist had stopped by the side of 
the road, he says that he was concerned by the cyclists aggression, and consequently he 
called 999. Mr E has described the cyclist attempting to steal his car key, leading to the 
transponder being snapped off it and only the key stub being left in his ignition.
In addition to the key, Mr E says that his car suffered damage from the contact with the 
cyclist. He considers that there was no damage to the cyclists bike.
A few days later, the cyclist made a claim to Ageas. Ageas rang Mr E to discuss the incident, 
and he said that it was the result of the cyclist suffering from road rage. Mr E described the 
cyclist kicking his car and falling off his bike as a result of his own actions. He also told 
Ageas that the cyclist had a helmet camera. Ageas appointed an investigative company to 
assess the claim.
Mr E agreed to meet the investigative company on 1st July when he would provide a 
statement. However, he says that he had to cancel this because this fell during a Covid-19 
self isolation period. Mr E has explained that shortly after this, he got Covid-19 and was very 
unwell. He says this further delayed him providing a statement about the incident. But he 
always maintained to Ageas that he was not liable for any damage that had occurred, and he 
had explained he was willing to go to court to defend against the third partys claim. Mr E 
was also unhappy that he had not been provided with further details of the alleged damage 
to the bike.
On 25 August, Ageas confirmed to Mr E that it was dealing with the third party claim on a 
without prejudice basis. It stated it had taken this course of action because Mr E had not 
responded to correspondence sent and voicemails left by both it and the investigative 
company.
Mr E complained to Ageas about its actions. In response it stated that in the absence of Mr E 
providing the further details it required about the incident, settling the cyclists claim allowed 
it to mitigate against any further losses. Ageas highlighted that because the settlement was 
made on a without prejudice basis, Mr E was still able to claim against the third party if he 
wanted to through the separate legal expenses cover that he has.
Unhappy with what Ageas had done, Mr E brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint, concluding that based on the evidence it had 
received, Ageas acted fairly when it settled the third party claim.
Mr E disagreed with the investigators findings. He said that the only time during the incident 
that he may have appeared to be aggressive was during the 999 call when he was inside his 
car, because he was fearful that the cyclist would get into his car. Mr E explained that he has 
not seen the witness statement provided to the police by another driver. He also said that the 
cyclists helmet camera would show that he was not the aggressor.
In response, our investigator explained that it was reasonable of Ageas to place weight on 
the police report of the incident, because it represented the polices conclusions. He also 
confirmed that the representative of the third party had not provided footage from the helmet 
camera. The investigator commented that Ageas would be mindful of how the courts 
approach liability in a road traffic incident between a cyclist and car driver, including where 
there was also a witness statement which didnt state that the cyclist was aggressive.  
Overall, the investigator remained of the opinion that Ageas had acted fairly when assessing 
liability for the incident.
Mr E remained unhappy with this outcome, and so this complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, the terms of the insurance policy give Ageas the right to full 
conduct and control of the defence or settlement of any claim made under it. Insurers have 
much experience of handling claims and of court proceedings, and will use this knowledge to 
determine whether or not to defend a claim from a third party, taking into account the costs 
involved in doing so. When investigating a complaint such as this one, this service considers 
whether the insurer has exercised its discretion to deal with the third party claim reasonably. 
We do not decide who was responsible for causing a road traffic incident, as this is what the 
courts do.
Mr E considers that he was not responsible for any damage caused during the incident 
which occurred with the third party. His view is that Ageas should not have settled the third 
partys claim, and he has described it as fraudulent. He also considers that Ageas acted too 
swiftly in settling the claim, in particular because he says he was not given a fair opportunity 
to provide his full account of the incident. I note Mr E has said that he was intending to drive 
Ageas appointed investigator to the site where the incident occurred, because he thinks this 
would have provided a better insight into what happened on the day in question.
I note what Mr E has said about his experience with Covid-19 being an obstacle to him 
meeting with the investigative company, and I am sorry to learn about the ill-health that he 
suffered at this time. I appreciate this prevented the face to face meeting due on 1st July 
going ahead. However, Ageas notes record that the investigative company did offer to take 
a statement from Mr E over the phone, and he declined that offer.
Mr E complained that Ageas did not email him when contacting him to obtain incident details 
from him prior to the claim being settled, despite him requesting that it do so. Although I 
acknowledge what Mr E has said in this regard, the documentation provided indicates that 
both Ageas and the investigative company did send letters to his correct address and left 
voicemails for him to call regarding the incident. The letters included a warning that Ageas 
needed information from Mr E to defend the claim, and without this, it might have to settle 
the third party claim. Overall my view is that Ageas took appropriate steps to obtain a full account of the incident from Mr E before it moved to the stage of considering how it would 
deal with the third party claim.
Ageas was left in a position where it had received a claim against Mr Es policy from what it 
described as a vulnerable road user (because the third party was a cyclist). I can see that on 
more than one occasion, Ageas asked the third partys representative for any helmet camera 
footage that was available, but this was not provided. Ageas did have an initial account of 
the incident given to it by Mr E over the phone two weeks after it had occurred. But Ageas 
view was that, in the absence of further witnesses, it was unlikely it would be able to 
successfully defend the claim in court. For this reason, it made a decision to settle the claim 
on a without prejudice basis.
Later, Ageas was provided by the police with a witness statement. This statement didnt say 
that the cyclist was aggressive. Ageas opinion was that, based on the weight of evidence it 
had, and taking into account the costs of potentially defending the claim through litigation, it 
was appropriate to settle it. In assessing this complaint, I need to determine whether Ageas 
used its discretion to settle the claim fairly, based on the evidence that it had.
I appreciate why, based on his explanation of how the incident occurred, Mr E considers 
Ageas acted unfairly when settling the claim and recording him as being fault. But, as 
explained above, an insurer has to take into consideration the potential costs that would be 
incurred defending a claim in court when assessing how to deal with it. In this case, with the 
evidence that it had regarding the claim, overall my view is that Ageas did use its discretion 
reasonably when choosing to settle the third party claim.
I understand why Mr E is unhappy that a fault claim will be recorded for him, and I recognise 
that he is likely to be disappointed with my conclusions here. But my conclusion is that 
Ageas acted fairly when handling the claim made by the third party in the way that it did 
under the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022. 
John Swain
Ombudsman