DRN-1902198
 
The complaint
Mr M has complained about True Potential Investments LLP. Hes unhappy about the way it 
has managed his pension.
What happened
Mr M has a self-investment personal pension (SIPP). The SIPP was set up in 2013 and was 
held on a True Potential platform.
Mr M complained in 2019. He made the following points;
1. Who was responsible for managing his portfolio?
2. On multiple occasions the value of the pension reduced and returned to the exact 
same valuation, £29,869.35. How can that be right?
3. The pension should have performed better.
4. The service provided by True Potential was poor.
True Potential responded and upheld the complaint in part. It said;
1. The pension was held on its platform, but it didnt manage the portfolio or select the 
investments.
2. Over time Mr M held the same number of units in one fund. There were small 
changes in the value of the units on a day to day basis, so it was perfectly possible 
for the portfolio value to revert to the same amount.
3. The portfolio had been invested in a diversified income fund. Large fluctuations in the 
fund values werent likely. True Potential wasnt responsible for the choice of fund or 
the management of it.
4. True Potential accepted that its service could have been better. There had been 
errors in some of the information it had provided to Mr M. It offered him £50 for any 
inconvenience caused.
The complaint was referred to this service where it was considered by an investigator. He 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld and felt the offer True Potential had made was 
fair. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said that he had no issues with the SIPP for the first four years but 
over the last two years the pension had fallen in value despite no changes being made.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
True Potential provides the platform where Mr Ms SIPP is held. But it isnt his adviser and it 
didnt select or recommend the investments Mr M has made. Also, it isnt the fund manager 
and it isnt responsible for the management of or performance of the investments.
When the SIPP was set up it seems that Mr M invested in a diversified income fund. Then 
in 2015 his investment was switched to a different fund although this was still labelled as a 
cautious income fund. True Potential wasnt responsible for selecting the new fund of 
making the switch.
Mr M says that he was happy with the SIPP for the first four years but not the last two. Ive 
looked at date for this cautious income fund and this shows that it had a unit value of 1.047 
in December 2017 and by December 2019 the unit value was 1.045, so there was a small 
loss over that two-year period which appears to support what Mr M has said. I can 
appreciate that this performance will have been a disappointment to Mr M, but as Ive said, 
True Potential isnt responsible for the choice of that fund or for the management and 
performance of it. It seems that Mr Ms adviser recommended the switch and the fund itself 
is managed by another business.
I can understand if Mr M was surprised to be provided with daily on-line valuations on 
different dates which were exactly the same. I appreciate that he cant now identify specific 
examples as he was accessing his account on-line and isnt referring to printed statements. 
This does seem unusual, but as True Potential has said, he was invested in a fund where 
the value was unlikely to fluctuate to a great extent and his unit holding was generally the 
same. So, its not totally surprising that the value didnt fluctuate massively. Looking at the 
data for the fund, between December 2017 and December 2019, the unit value didnt 
fluctuate widely. The highest unit value during that period was 104.9 and the lowest 98.37. 
And there were a few occasions when the unit value was the same, to two decimal places, 
on different dates. For example, the unit value was 99.72 on 5 April 2018 and the same on 
11 January 2019. The unit value was 102.61 on both 17 August 2018 and 24 July 2019. So, 
if Mr M held the same number of units his fund value would be very similar on these 
occasions. 
The fund Mr M invested in didnt show any growth over the two-year period to December 
2019. It showed a small loss. 
True Potential has accepted that there were some service failures and has offered £50 for 
any inconvenience these may have caused. I think that offer is fair. But crucially, True 
Potential isnt responsible for the performance of Mr Ms SIPP. It wasnt responsible for the 
choice of the fund Mr M invested in, and it wasnt responsible for the management of or 
performance of that fund.My final decision
So, for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. I think the offer True Potential has made 
is fair and I make no further award.
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman