DRN-2704397
The complaint
Mr M complains about the suitability of the advice he was given by Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K) Limited (Sun Life) to take out free standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (FSAVC) plans in 1995 and then again in 1998. He wants to be put as close to 
the position hed be in now had he been given suitable advice  which he thinks was to have 
taken out the in-house AVC option.
What happened
In December 1995 Mr M joined his then employers Occupational Pension Scheme. Until 
that time Mr M had been contributing to a personal pension with Sun Life, but as the rules no 
longer allowed him to do so, he met with Sun Life and converted the plan to a FSAVC. He 
agreed to pay gross monthly contributions of £133.33. That contribution level was reduced in 
October 1996. 
In 1997 Mr M left his employer and started with a new employer on 1 September 1997. So in 
early 1998 he met with Sun Life again who recommended that he started a new FSAVC plan 
with a monthly contribution of £77.92.
In April 2012 Mr M ceased contributions to both plans and they were eventually transferred 
to another provider in September 2017.
In March 2020, using a representative, Mr M complained about the original advice hed been 
given. He said that he hadnt been made aware of the probable difference in charges 
between the FSAVC and the in-house options in 1995 and wasnt referred to the scheme 
administrators for full details of the alternatives. He said he wanted Sun Life to undertake a 
calculation to see if he would have been better off financially if hed taken out the in-house 
option. 
Sun Life didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had made Mr M aware of the generic 
differences between the schemes and referred him to his employer for further in-house 
option details in 1998. It also said that if it had provided this information in 1995 then Mr M 
would have most likely chosen to take out an FSAVC at that time. It thought its 
recommendation was suitable as it addressed Mr Ms requirements of being able to convert 
his personal pension and increase his retirement provision at age 55. 
But Mr M wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He thought Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. He 
said he was satisfied that Mr M had been provided with the information he needed to make 
an informed choice about continuing with FSAVCs in 1998. And he thought that, as the 
situation in 1995 had been similar, if Mr M was given the same information and a discussion 
had taken place along the same lines  then he would most likely have chosen the FSAVC 
at that time. 
Mr Ms representative thought it would have been illogical for Mr M to have chosen a more 
expensive option if hed been made aware that the alternative was cheaper. It asked to see 
any evidence which led to the investigator to conclude that Mr M was told he was opting for 
a more expensive option.
  
The investigator reiterated that hed formed his view on the basis of what he thought was 
likely to have happened. He said, although the reasons why letter hed seen was a poor 
copy, he thought it demonstrated sufficiently that a conversation had taken place in 1998 
and that it included a discussion around the costs and benefits of the alternative schemes. 
 
The representative said it was concerned that in similar cases wed taken the view that a 
lack of documented evidence led to us to decide that a firm had failed to show its advice was 
suitable, and it asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So its been passed 
to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I know thats an outcome that will disappoint Mr M  so Ill explain my 
reasons. 
Before May 1996 the regulator required company representatives to exercise due skill, care 
and diligence in dealing fairly with investors. In relation to FSVAC sales this meant knowing 
that in-house AVC options existed and mentioning the generic benefits of these options as 
well as highlighting the benefits of their FSAVC plan. 
The generic benefits included that AVCs potentially offered lower charges, added years 
might be another option, and that the employer might potentially match or top up the amount 
a consumer contributed to either in-house option. 
A regulatory update in May 1996 set out the procedures it expected product providers to 
follow, although this wasnt new guidance but restating what was already in place  as Ive 
set out above. However, the main change that happened around this time was the evidence 
that was required to show the generic benefits had been discussed  in the form of a 
suitability report that was required. 
The first FSAVC recommendation for Mr M occurred in December 1995 and Ive not been 
provided with any evidence to show that the generic benefits were highlighted. But for the 
second recommendation for the new FSAVC plan a suitability report was produced. And with 
the report there was reference to a leaflet called A comparison of in-house AVCs and free-
standing AVCs.  
The reasons why letter or suitability report from 1998 said your employers scheme must 
provide an in-house AVC scheme and we have discussed the generic differences, a 
summary of which is attached (not evidenced). The in-house scheme offers no matched 
contributions nor enhanced benefits. I have referred you back to your employer to check the 
details of their scheme.  
 
So Im satisfied that the report met the condition for confirming if contributions would be 
matched and to refer Mr M back to his employer for further details. I also think that as the 
report referred to the summary of generic benefits (attached) it was more likely than not that 
this leaflet was provided to Mr M. 
I note the leaflet confirmed that charges on money purchase AVCs are usually significantly 
lower than on an FSAVC as the employer may meet all of the set up and administration 
costs. Often there will be no initial charge. It also confirmed the other available alternative of 
added years. So, Im satisfied that the leaflet covered the other regulatory requirements of tied advisers 
when recommending FSAVCs to a consumer, and I think that when considering both the 
leaflet and reasons why letter Im satisfied that Mr M was made aware of the availability of 
AVCs and that charges were likely to be potentially lower than the FSAVC option. I know 
Mr M will point to the fact that theres no evidence of him signing to say that hed received 
the leaflet and had its contents explained to him. But I dont think its unsurprising that a 
signed copy isnt available after nearly 25 years and Ive given the appropriate weight to the 
documentary evidence from the time. Im satisfied that, because of the refence to a summary 
of charges being provided to Mr M within the reasons why letter, Mr M was more likely than 
not to have been made aware of the generic differences of the schemes and the charges in 
particular.
As I said previously, I dont have any evidence available to confirm what was discussed in 
1995 when the personal pension was converted to an FSAVC. So, I cant confirm either way 
what might have been communicated to Mr M. But, after careful consideration of the matter, 
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms position would have changed in 1995. I say that because 
given that Ive concluded that the information provided in 1997/1998 was in line with what 
was required  and led Mr M to accept a recommendation for a new FSAVC plan, then I 
think its more likely than not that he would have reached the same conclusion in 1995  if 
the same information had been provided. 
 
And I see no reason why Sun Life wouldnt have followed the same process in 1995 as the 
adviser demonstrated an understanding of what was required of company tied 
representatives in 1998. So I think its likely that he would have discussed the alternatives 
available, specifying the generic differences, in 1995. But I cant be sure what was 
discussed, so even if I am wrong about the events that took place, Im still of the view that 
Mr M would have made the same choice in 1995 that he made in 1998 with the same 
information provided to him. 
I have gone on to consider Sun Lifes position here regarding the use of two separate 
FSAVC plans being recommended to Mr M. So I asked it to explain why a top up 
contribution to the original plan wasnt considered. Sun Life has explained that by the time of 
the second recommendation it had launched a new style FSAVC plan  and Mr M had also 
moved to a new employer. But its also confirmed that there was no initial setting up fee on 
the new plan as it was treated as a kind of top up to the original plan. So it says Mr M hasnt 
been financially disadvantaged by the introduction of a second plan. In the circumstances 
Im satisfied therefore that Sun Life hasnt acted inappropriately by setting up the new plan 
and theres no evidence that Mr M is any worse off as a result. 
I note Mr Ms representative is concerned about the apparent lack of consistency in the 
outcome weve reached here  having seen similar cases with the opposite outcome. I ought 
to explain that each complaint is looked at taking into account its individual situation. Two 
cases that can appear similar may get different answers due to the particular circumstances 
of that complaint, which we would need to consider in each case whether that is in relation to 
the jurisdiction or merits of a complaint. So in this case Ive come to my conclusion based on 
the evidence Ive been presented with and, where thats inconclusive or lacking, what I think 
was most likely to have happened. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman