DRN-4252637
The complaint
Mr P complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr P applied for a credit card with Marbles in March 2021. Marbles gave him a credit card 
with a credit limit of £450. The credit limit was increased to £1200 in July 2021, to £1950 in 
November 2021 and to £2950 in March 2022.
Mr P complained that Marbles had lent to him irresponsibly.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I wasnt upholding the complaint. I 
said that I was satisfied that Marbles had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
when it opened the account and that the lending decision was fair. I looked at the checks 
that Marbles had carried out each time the credit limit was increased and found that these 
were reasonable and proportionate. I said that I couldnt see anything in the information 
gathered from the checks to suggest Mr P wasnt likely to be able to sustainably repay the 
credit.
I reviewed the information that Marbles obtained from the credit check when the credit limit 
was increased from £1950 to £2950 in March 2022. The credit data showed an entry under 
financial difficulty in the month prior to the credit limit increase. This service asked Marbles 
for an explanation of that entry. Marbles said that Mr P had exceeded the credit limit on the 
account the month prior to the credit limit increase and had incurred a fee of £12 for doing 
so. Marbles said that otherwise the account had been well managed, and all payments were 
up to date.
I said that I could see from the credit check carried out at this time that Mr Ps unsecured 
debt had increased to around £16,000. I noted that this was a significant increase from 
before and said it would have been proportionate for Marbles to have carried out further 
checks to verify Mr Ps income and expenditure.
Mr P told this service that his income for the year 2021/22 was around £48,000 and that this 
reduced to around £26,000 in 2022/23. He says his expenditure on rent and child support 
meant that he was struggling to repay his debts.
I said that in order to see what reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown, I 
would need to see evidence of Mr Ps income and expenditure for the period leading up to 
the credit limit increase. I suggested that bank statements would be a reasonable way of 
obtaining this information. This service asked for bank statements, but Mr P hasnt provided 
these. Because of this, I wasnt able to see what reasonable and proportionate checks 
wouldve shown and therefore, I couldnt conclude that Marbles had made an unfair lending 
decision when it increased the credit limit in March 2022.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise. 
Neither party responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision. I havent seen anything which 
persuaded me to reach a different decision to that which I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman