DRN-3166281
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that when AmTrust Europe Limited withdrew cover for his legal 
expenses claim, the insurer declined to pay him the value of his claim.
What happened
In December 2016 Mr and Mrs B had a new roof installed at their home. The roofer carrying 
out the work gave them a 10-year warranty.
Unfortunately, the roof developed problems which Mr B says he discovered in May 2020. 
Mr B raised these with the roofer, and he refused to rectify the problems. In June 2020 Mr B 
made a claim on his home insurance policy for legal expenses cover to take legal action 
against the roofer. Mr B wanted to recover the cost of putting the work right which was about 
£6,000.
Following Mr Bs claim, AmTrusts agent who I will call A instructed panel solicitors to 
consider whether the claim had reasonable prospects of success, which was a requirement 
of the policy. 
The solicitors reported to A that the claim had sufficient prospects of success to send a letter 
of claim to the roofer. A letter of claim was sent to the roofer, but he didnt respond positively. 
A Land Registry search was carried out on his address to establish whether he owned it. 
The search result was that his property was council-owned, so the solicitors didnt think there 
were financial prospects in respect of assets. There was also a concern about whether the 
costs of taking court proceedings would outweigh the amount of the claim. 
A told Mr B that cover for his claim was being withdrawn in view of the result of the search.
Mr B asked A to pay the value of his claim under the terms of the policy. A said that the 
relevant term in the policy referred to a legal claim which was defined as: Preparing work 
for negotiating or defending your legal rights in a civil court, tribunal or arbitration in the 
territory, including negotiating a settlement and any hearings." It didnt agree that in the 
circumstances of Mr Bs claim, this stage had been reached. A said that it didnt make 
economic sense to even consider commencing proceedings where the sole traders financial 
prospects didnt satisfy the policy requirement. The clause referred to the insurer being 
entitled to and not required to. A said that if Mr B wished to start court proceedings himself, 
it would cover the court issue and hearing fee. And if Mr B wished to proceed as a litigant in 
person, he had access to the legal helpline for general guidance on the small claims court 
process.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She noted that the legal 
expenses cover in the policy did not cover: Legal costs where prospects of success do not 
exist. And the policy definition of prospects of success was: Where we consider there is a 
51% and above chance of succeeding with your claim and enforcing any award and that it 
would be reasonable to advise any private paying client in the same circumstances to 
pursue the claim.
She also noted the Legal Expenses Cover Conditions provided under 5. Withdrawal of 
assistance by us that: We may at any time withdraw our support for your claim:
a. if we or your appointed representative decide that there are no longer prospects of 
success or enforcement of any judgment or potential judgment are insufficient to justify our 
continuing support.
Overall, she thought it was fair for A to rely on the legal opinion that there werent reasonable 
prospects of recovering any judgement against the roofer, because he didnt have sufficient 
financial assets, to withdraw cover for Mr Bs claim.
She then looked at whether AmTrust should have paid Mr B the amount he was claiming 
from the roofer. She noted the policy said:
We are entitled to:
e. decide not to commence or to terminate a legal claim at any time and pay you up to or 
equal to the amount that you are claiming for or the amount being claimed against you
She thought that this clause covered situations where a claim had been assessed as having 
reasonable prospects of success and enforcing any judgment, but the legal costs of pursuing 
the claim were likely to outweigh the value of the claim. In that situation, where a claim 
wasnt considered to be proportionate to pursue, A could decide to pay the claim value 
instead of funding the legal costs to pursue the claim through the courts.
She noted in the policy, legal claim was defined as: "Preparing work for negotiating or 
defending your legal rights in a civil court, tribunal or arbitration in the territory, including 
negotiating a settlement and any hearings."
She thought in Mr Bs case his claim hadnt been assessed as having reasonable prospects 
of succeeding and enforcing any award, so a legal claim wasnt being contemplated. In 
those circumstances, she wouldnt reasonably expect an insurer to pay the value of a 
policyholders claim. 
Mr B disagreed. He pointed out that the solicitors had sent the roofer a letter titled letter of 
claim which refers to court processes and also offers arbitration. He said it was therefore 
clear to him that this is preparatory work for either court action of a negotiated settlement so 
a legal claim was being made according to the definition.
Regarding the roofers assets, he pointed out that he raised the issue of the roofers assets 
and ability to pay with the solicitors. The solicitors said "Yes we are completing searches, but 
if he intends to rely on the fact he cannot pay, we need evidence to show he can't. In the 
event that the matter went to court, the court would expect evidence that he cannot pay, they 
would not necessarily just take his word. Even if he does not have the full amount at this 
moment in time, it does not mean instalments or a payment plan cannot be in place.
Mr B says there is no evidence to show the roofer couldnt pay. He says the solicitor now 
appears to be relying on the roofers word that he couldnt pay when they had previously 
said a court wouldnt do that. Even if the roofer doesnt own a house it doesnt mean a 
payment plan is out of the question.
Mr B says he asked the solicitors if they had searched the roofers vehicle ownership (as he 
has a number of vehicles at his property). They responded "We do not have access to any 
database that confirms whether he owns the vehicles. If the vehicles are on finance or lease, 
we cannot confirm financial prospects. Mr B thinks this is a clear indication that they have 
simply made an arbitrary decision without fully considering the facts.The investigator issued a second view where again she didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. She said the solicitor's letter of claim to the roofer was only the first notification of 
Mr Bs claim against him, in order to elicit a response by threatening to start court 
proceedings or arbitration if a response wasn't received. The definition of 'legal claim' in the 
policy would be considered to include work such as drafting the court proceedings in order to 
pursue the claim through court. She said Mr Bs claim didn't reach that stage because cover 
was withdrawn. She also referred to the issue of the roofer's assets and ability to pay. She 
didnt agree that the solicitors made an arbitrary decision without fully considering the facts 
or that the correct process wasn't followed. She noted the roofer had said that he no longer 
did roofing work and searches established that his property was council-owned. She thought 
not knowing whether he had any income or assets to cover a judgment meant that there 
weren't reasonable prospects of successfully recovering any money from him. She didnt 
think the solicitors came to an arbitrary decision. She also noted that they gave Mr B options 
for challenging their legal opinion on prospects, such as obtaining an alternative legal 
opinion.
Mr B disagreed. He said that the investigators definition of a legal claim was not his 
definition of a legal claim. He also believes that the definition is not sufficiently clear and that 
this service has made an award to the claimant because wording was not clear.
He also thinks that the conditions of claim are biased and effectively make the legal 
insurance worthless, as there is clearly no incentive for a law firm to progress a claim to 
point of a legal claim.
He says the roofer has lied on multiple occasions about his 10-year warranty and his 
standards of construction. So, he doesnt understand why the roofers word is being taken 
regarding his assets.
He maintains his view that the solicitors have been contradictory and have made arbitrary 
decisions. 
He says he didnt take out legal insurance in the expectation that he would need a second 
opinion in the event of a claim. 
Finally, he says the terms of the insurance are clear in his interpretation, and they should 
either pursue the claim or pay him the amount being claimed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration here. He believes he has a valid claim against the roofer 
and has paid for legal expenses insurance. But his insurer wont pay the costs of the claim. 
Nor will it pay him the value of his claim. 
Mr Bs policy doesnt cover the costs of him pursuing all claims in all circumstances. The 
policy is clear that legal costs are not covered where prospects of success do not exist. And 
prospects of success are defined as where the insurer considers there is a 51% and above 
chance of succeeding with the claim and enforcing any award and that it would be 
reasonable to advise any private paying client in the same circumstances to pursue the 
claim. This isnt unusual  legal expenses insurance almost always includes a requirement 
for a claim to have a reasonable chance of success before cover is provided, and I wouldnt 
expect an insurer to cover a claim that isnt likely to succeed. The policy is also clear that this 
is an on-going assessment. Unfortunately for Mr B the solicitors acting for him have reached the view that there are no 
prospects of success. Their advice to the insurer was: 
"We have received the results of the land registry search and can confirm that the property is 
owned by the local council and associated organisation. Therefore, there is no financial 
prospects in respect of assets.
We have also not heard back from the other side and the next stage would be to issue 
proceedings. However, we would be concerned about assisting the client further due to the 
proportionality clause. It may be worth considering covering the hearing and/or issue fee if 
the client wishes to proceed as a litigate in person."
Mr B feels the advice is arbitrary as it is based on incomplete data. He says he has provided 
photographic and recorded evidence of the roofers assets. He also says he asked the 
solicitors if they had searched the roofers vehicle ownership as he had a number of vehicles 
on his property and the solicitors hadnt done any such search as they dont have access to 
a database which confirms ownership of vehicles.
I appreciate the enquiries undertaken into the assets of the roofer are limited but I think this 
is reasonable given the size of the claim. Mr B can bring any further evidence he can find or 
obtain about the assets of the roofer and then I would expect A to ask the solicitors to review 
this again. And Mr B can get his own opinion on the prospects of success if he wishes to do 
so. I appreciate he doesnt think he should have to do this but as Ill explain further unless he 
does so, I dont think AmTrust needs to do anything more.
Mr B also thinks the advice is contradictory as previously the solicitors had told him that the 
roofer would need to provide evidence that he cant pay and even if he didnt have all the 
money at that time an instalment plan could be put in place.
I understand why Mr B feels this is contradictory. But the assessment of prospects of 
success is an on-going process and I think as things became clearer  particularly that the 
roofer didnt own his own home  then it was reasonable for the solicitor to review the 
prospects of success considering the evidence they now had. No one is saying that if the 
case went to court and Mr B won then the courts award would definitely not be recovered. 
What is being said is that in the opinion of the expert there is a less than 51% chance of 
succeeding with the claim and enforcing any award. And without any further evidence or an 
opinion from a different law firm I dont think the insurer has done anything wrong when it 
relied on its experts advice.
Mr B has referred to the clause in the policy which allows AmTrust to make a payment to the 
insured rather than commence or continue with a legal claim. He thinks because the insurer 
has chosen to terminate the claim it should pay him the amount being claimed.  I disagree. 
The clause needs to be read in the context of the policy as a whole. As I have already 
explained the policy is clear that it doesnt cover the costs of him pursuing a claim where 
prospects of success do not exist., Although the clause Mr B is referring to doesnt 
specifically say so, AmTrust would not be entitled to withdraw cover if the claim has 
prospects of success. So, I think it could only be applied in circumstances where there are 
prospects of success and yet the insurer decides it would prefer to pay the insured the 
amount the insured is claiming or is being claimed against the insured. If there are no 
prospects then Mr B isnt entitled to cover in the first place.
Even if I were wrong and the clause covered cases where there werent prospects of 
success then I think the point the investigator made about this clause being when a legal 
claim had commenced is correct. I appreciate Mr Bs point that the solicitors letter to the roofer was headed legal claim but as the policy defines legal claim then I think the policy 
definition is more significant than the heading of a letter which was designed to encourage 
someone to respond. And I dont think the work done so far by the solicitors is enough for 
me to say that there had been preparing work for negotiating or defending your legal rights 
in a civil court, tribunal or arbitration in the territory, including negotiating a settlement and 
any hearings.
Even if I was wrong again, I wouldnt make an award that required the insurer to pay Mr B 
the sum he wants to claim from the roofer. At this service our jurisdiction gives us a wide set 
of powers to make decisions which are fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. And in this case, where the insurer has acted on the advice of solicitors that there 
arent reasonable prospects, then I dont think it would be fair to order it to pay Mr B the 
amount he is claiming. The relevant term only says the insurer may pay the value of the 
claim; it isnt obliged to. What I think is fair is the offer A has made to pay the court issue and 
hearing fee and to provide access to the legal helpline for general guidance on the small 
claims court process.
Mt B has said there is clearly no incentive for a law firm to progress a claim to the point of a 
legal claim. Lawyers have professional duties to be honest and acted with integrity. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that the assessment by the law firm was anything other than their 
honest opinion.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman