DRN-1312871
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a regular 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy with his mortgage. 
What happened
Mr P took out a mortgage in 1989 and bought MPPI in April 1994 when he took out further 
borrowing with Halifax. The policy cost just over £17.75 per month and wouldve covered his 
monthly repayments if he was too ill to work or became unemployed. In the event of a 
successful claim, it wouldve provided a monthly benefit of £250 for up to 12 months. The 
policy was cancelled when the mortgage was redeemed in 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. Mr P doesnt agree, so the case comes to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps case. Having reviewed the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint, and 
Ive set out my reasons below.
Did Mr P have a choice about taking the MPPI policy?
Halifax says that the policy was optional, and that MPPI wasnt a condition of the mortgage. 
Unfortunately, in view of the time that has elapsed since the MPPI policy was purchased, 
more than 25 years, theres very little documentation available from 1994. I dont know what 
exactly was discussed about MPPI when it was sold to Mr P. And Halifax couldnt provide 
many documents from the time of sale, which isnt surprising as the sale happened so long 
ago.
In these situations, I have to decide what, on balance, I feel is more likely to be the case. 
And in the absence of any strong testimony or recollections from Mr P about the purchase of 
the policy (which is entirely understandable), Im not persuaded that it wasnt presented to 
him as optional, and that Mr P wasnt given a choice about taking out the policy. I dont doubt 
that Mr Ps testimony reflects his honest recollections, but I also have to take into account 
that memories can and do fade after so many years. And with the very limited information 
available, I cant fairly say that Mr P wasnt given a choice about PPI and that he chose to 
buy it.
 
Did Halifax give advice and was the policy suitable?Halifax confirms that it gave Mr P advice when he chose to buy MPPI  so it needed to take 
appropriate steps to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mr P. Due to the limited 
paperwork from this sale, I cant be certain what steps Halifax took to assess this policys 
suitability before recommending it.
However, for the reasons set out below I think the policy was suitable for him, taking into 
account the policys benefits, cost of cover and Mr Ps broader financial circumstances at 
that time. And I dont think he wouldve acted differently; and not taken out the policy had he 
been better advised and informed.
I say this because:
Given Mr Ps circumstances at the time of the sale, (and taking account of the 
policys conditions), I am satisfied that he was eligible for the cover that the policy 
provided.
 
Mr Ps circumstances dont suggest that he wouldve been affected by any of the 
significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to health 
conditions or unusual employment arrangements  he told us he was employed and 
in good health. He could therefore expect to benefit from the full extent of the cover 
provided by the MPPI.
 
Whilst Mr P received some sick pay  this doesnt automatically mean that the policy 
was unsuitable. This is because if he were unable to work, the MPPI was intended to 
remove the additional pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments, at what would 
likely be a difficult time, particularly as he was solely responsible for meeting these 
mortgage repayments. It is reasonable to think someone in this situation would want 
to make sure they were protected, if they faced the unfortunate situation of being 
unable to work for an extended period of time.
 
So, Im satisfied that the policy was suitable for someone in his circumstances.
Was Mr P given enough information about the policies?
I dont know for certain how the costs of the policy were explained during the conversation 
with Halifaxs sales advisers. The policy provided a monthly benefit at a cost of around 
£17.75 per month. And it seems to me that someone in his circumstances might have 
concluded that the policy provided valuable cover. And in the event that Mr P no longer 
wanted to have the benefit of the cover, he could have cancelled the policy at any time 
without penalty.
Summary
So, having considered all the evidence carefully, although I accept there may well have been 
some failings in how the policy was sold, Im not persuaded Mr P wouldve decided against 
taking it if hed been properly informed. It seems more likely to me that he had some interest 
in protecting his mortgage repayments and chose to go ahead with the policy. 
For the reasons given, I am not persuaded that the policy was mis-sold.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman