DRN-3800520
The complaint
Miss M complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) didnt do enough to protect her when she fell 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry that Miss M has been the victim of a cruel scam, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that the funds were lost to a scam. Its also not in dispute that 
Miss M authorised the payment from her new Revolut account, albeit not realising 
she was being scammed. So, the starting position  in line with the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017  is that shes liable for the transaction.
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Revolut, as an 
electronic money institute (EMI), to take additional steps or make additional checks 
before processing a payment to help protect its customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. And this might be where payments are significantly 
unusual or uncharacteristic when compared with the normal use of the account. In 
such circumstances, it might be reasonable to expect Revolut to intervene and ask 
some questions about the intended transaction before processing.
In this case, Miss M had only recently set up the account, and this was her first 
transaction. So, this payment wouldnt have appeared unusual or uncharacteristic to 
Revolut, as it had no prior knowledge of the way Miss M usually transacted.
Ive next thought about the amount itself - £2,000. This is a substantial amount to 
Miss M, and forms part of a larger amount lost. But I dont consider it to be significant 
enough to have stood out to Revolut to the extent it should have prompted further 
checks before the payment was made. And I note that its common for accounts to be 
opened with EMIs in order to make larger transfers than they would with other 
financial institutions. 
At the time, Revolut wouldnt have known Miss M was making a payment towards a 
scam  particularly as the payment was made to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
provider. Its only now, with the benefit of hindsight, that we know the payment was 
being made as the result of a scam. I dont think there was anything that Revolut 
should have identified as being inherently suspicious at the time  and Id add that 
EMIs are often used differently to traditional current accounts with a bank. So, I dont 
think Revolut should have identified the payment as suspicious enough to warrant 
further checks. 
Ive also thought about whether Revolut could have done more to help Miss M to 
recover the funds once it was made aware of the scam, but I dont think it could. A 
chargeback wouldnt have been successful here as the payment went to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency provider which carried out the service it was required to. So, I dont 
think Revolut could reasonably have done more to recover the funds. 
So, while Im very sorry about Miss Ms loss, I dont think it was caused by a failing on 
Revoluts part.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman