DRN-3210303
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Principality Building Society wont close his account without Mr P 
verifying his identity and address with them first.
What happened
Mr P has a Principality account on which no contact had been made in many years. Because 
of this, Principality designated the account as being dormant. This meant that when Mr P 
contacted them about the account several years later, and asked for the account to be 
closed and the money held within it sent to him, Principality were unwilling to do so without 
Mr P first verifying his identity and address with them. Mr P wasnt happy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Principality looked at Mr Ps complaint. But they confirmed that as per their process when 
dealing with dormant accounts, it remained their position that they needed Mr P to verify his 
identity and address with them before actioning the request to close the account.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Principalities response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that 
Principality were acting unfairly or unreasonably by requiring Mr P to verify his identity and 
address as they were doing, and so they also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Principality account in question was designated as being in a state of dormancy by 
Principality in 2012, following a period of several year where no contact was received by 
them from Mr P. 
Following the account being designated as dormant, all the annual statements that were 
sent out on the account included an explanation that should Mr P wish to instruct any actions 
on the account in future that he would need to provide two forms of identification to 
Principality in order to do so.
This seems reasonable to me, and placing an account into a state of dormancy as the result 
of a prolonged absence of customer contact is what would be expected of financial 
institutions such as Principality in circumstances such as this.
In consideration of the prolonged period of non-contact on this account  which in this 
instance amounted to a period of approximately 14 years  and given that Principality have 
an obligation to ensure that they dont issue funds from an account to an incorrect person, 
Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for Principality to require Mr P to verify his identity 
and address before actioning the account closure request. Indeed, I feel that it would 
irresponsible of Principality, given the circumstances, to have taken any position other that 
that which they have here.
I note that Mr P has stated that Principality are stealing his money. I can appreciate that Mr 
P feels strongly about this matter. However, the option to provide the reasonably requested 
identity and verification documents to Principality remains available to Mr P, which would 
then fairly enable Principality to action the account closure as requested. I therefore dont 
accept that Principality have stolen Mr Ps money, but rather Im satisfied that Principality are 
taking fair and reasonable steps  given the dormant status of the account  to ensure they 
dont action the account in question on the basis of an illegitimate request. 
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Principality to take 
any further action at this time. As explained, it remains that case that should Mr P continue 
to want to close the account and receive the funds therein, then this can be achieved by    
Mr P providing the reasonably requested identity and address verification documents to 
Principality.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman