DRN-2309350
The complaint
C is unhappy that Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) has declined a claim under its motor 
insurance fleet policy.
What happened
C submitted a claim for a failed gearbox after its vehicle drove through a flood. C said the 
gearbox suffered a water ingress from the floodwater causing it to fail. It asked Zenith to pay 
the claim.
But Zenith, after speaking to its engineers said it wasnt possible for the gearbox to have 
sustained the damage it sustained by driving through a flood. It said the damage was 
mechanical and it declined the claim.
So, C complained to our Service. An investigator reviewed this complaint and said based on 
the evidence provided it was more likely than not that the damage occurred when the vehicle 
drove through the flood. The investigator recommended that Zenith pay the claim.
However, Zenith doesnt agree, and its asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
C submitted a claim following what it alleges is the accidental damage caused to its vehicles 
gearbox which failed whilst driving through a flood. However, Zenith says that the gearbox 
failure was a mechanical failure and as such the claim is excluded under this policy.
In these circumstances, in order for the claim to be excluded Zenith has to prove there was 
no accidental damage. The exclusion has to be applied appropriately bearing in mind that 
accidental damage doesnt only relate to accidental damage caused in a road collision. 
Accidental damage can happen a number of different ways, but the key thing is it has to be 
accidental, not mechanical. 
C reported the incident to its broker, who in turn alerted Zenith. C advised that as a fleet 
vehicle, it was needed back on the road as soon as possible, so it went ahead with the 
repair.
Because of this, Zenith wasnt afforded the opportunity to inspect the physical gearbox. The 
gearbox once it was removed was exchanged for a replacement unit. And I agree with 
Zenith that this did cause a complication. However, there are a number of comprehensive 
reports on file which set out quite clearly whats happened. And its clear that the actual 
failure itself isnt in dispute. Its accepted that there was water contamination in the 
gearbox/transmission unit which has caused the friction materials on the parts within the unit 
to delaminate. This then caused a blockage which in turn caused the vehicle to stop. The 
issue is whether this happened because of a mechanical failure, or whether it happened 
because the gearbox suffered a water ingress from an external source, such as a flood.
Zenith originally said that water ingress was impossible. It said the gearbox is a sealed unit, 
and the only way water could get in was through the air intake breather on the engine, which 
would damage the engine too. But theres no evidence of damage to the engine here. Zenith 
also offered an alternative theory, and it said water ingress might be possible if the vehicle 
was parked in deep water for a period of time. However, this would also cause visible 
damage to the brake linings, and bearings etc, and this type of damage isnt visible on this 
vehicle.
The report from the repairing garage says that when the vehicle was inspected there was no 
active fault code. It says there was a loss of gearbox pressure when attempting to select the 
gears and that on inspection it was found that the gearbox oil was contaminated with water. 
The breather on top of the gearbox was found to be full of water, which the repairing 
engineer says is an indication that water had entered the gearbox from an external source.
So, it would seem that both parties are at odds as to how the water entered the gearbox. 
And this was teased out even further in a telephone call between the repairing engineer, and 
a senior engineer from Zenith.
Im not going to set out the whole telephone script here. But what is clear from this recording 
is that there are two possibilities for the water ingress. The first one is that water entered the 
box through an air breather that doubles as a dipstick and filler tube which is part of the 
gearbox. The repairing engineer says that when he took the dipstick out this tube was full of 
what he describes as fresh water. He explains that the gearbox isnt actually sealed, and 
that its possible for water to enter the unit though the breathing holes in the cap that covers 
this tube.
The second possibility is that the oil cooler pipes which form part of the gearbox unit have 
failed, and the water ingress has originated from these. This is what Zenith believe 
happened as it believes that this is the only plausible explanation. Zenith says that it never 
had a chance to inspect the gearbox. And further to this, Zenith says that in this call the 
repairing engineer says more than once that hes unsure where the water came from. Zenith 
says it is impossible for the water to have entered the gearbox in the scenario as presented 
by C and the repairing engineer. And its concluded that the only explanation is mechanical 
failure.
But whereas I can see that Zenith wasnt afforded the opportunity to inspect the gearbox 
when it was removed, Zenith was given a number of opportunities afterwards to obtain a 
strip report which wouldve definitively proved the cause of failure. During the telephone 
exchange the repairing engineer tells the senior engineer from Zenith that a strip report can 
be obtained from the company who now have the gearbox. The repairing engineer explains 
that the gearbox is a service exchange and that a strip report wouldve been completed 
which wouldve set out what parts were required and what the main cause of failure is, 
before the unit was reconditioned and used again. And not only does the repairing engineer 
explain this to the senior engineer, he also offers twice during the call to get this report for 
him. However, Zenith never take the repairing engineer up on this offer.Further to this, in this Services exchanges with Zenith, it was also pointed out that a strip 
report was likely to be available. The last email exchange our investigator had with Zenith 
clearly says that the strip report would present everyone with a clearer picture of what 
happened. But instead of obtaining the strip report Zenith reverted back to its original 
argument that the gearbox would only have been accessible via the air filter on the engine, 
and its even gone on to question again how the repairing engineer was able to determine 
there was water in the gearbox. But these are two issues that have already been dealt with 
and clarified.
Its not my role to determine for certain how the water got into the gearbox. It is however my 
role to determine whether Zenith has proven that an exclusion applies. But given the 
circumstances, coupled with the lack of evidence presented by Zenith, its clear that Zenith 
hasnt been able to prove that an insurable event didnt take place. Zenith has only ever put 
forward a theory about what mightve happened. And even when it had a chance to support 
that theory, Zenith failed to do so. As such it hasnt proven that an exclusion applies.
Further to this the testimony put forward by C is more persuasive. The vehicle entered a 
flood. The repairing engineer has explained that the gearbox isnt a sealed unit as originally 
believed, explaining that water can enter the unit through the gearbox breather. And this is 
supported by the testimony of the repairing engineer who said that he found fresh water in 
the breather tube which enters the gearbox. 
So, based on what Ive seen in this file, I dont believe that Zenith has proven that an 
exclusion applies. And Im more persuaded by the evidence as presented by C. As such I 
require Zenith to pay the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I require Zenith Insurance plc to pay the claim as submitted in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman