DRN-2912758
The complaint
Miss W complains Target Servicing Limited hasnt waived the fees she was charged on her 
Help to Buy loan despite promising to. Shes also unhappy about the poor customer service 
shes received.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive summarised events.
Miss W has a Help to Buy loan administered by Target
She previously complained to Target and it agreed to waive the £1 monthly 
management fee it charged on her loan 
Subsequently, she received a letter asking her to pay the fees
She got in contact with Target and following some back and forth, it eventually 
confirmed she didnt have to pay the fees and it would refund them to her as it 
couldnt stop them being charged
Miss W phoned Target to discuss redemption of the mortgage and spoke to several 
representatives who she said gave her confusing information 
She complained to Target
It apologised for the confusion it had caused about the fees and not calling back after 
it disconnected a call. It didnt think its representatives had given her incorrect 
information but accepted it could have been clearer
Miss W brought her complaint to this Service
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said Target should pay Miss W £60 for the 
refund of the fees, plus £75 for the poor customer service
Target accepted his recommendation but Miss W didnt think the compensation was 
high enough
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has already rightly explained we can only consider the actions of Target in 
relation to its role as the administrator of the loan  not at the terms and conditions of the 
loan or how it operates.
Theres broad agreement about the facts of this case. Whats left in dispute is the amount of 
compensation Target should pay Miss W and thats the focus of my decision.
The fees
I can see Miss W had some confusing and contradictory communications from Target about 
the fees over a period of time. Additionally, she had to make a number of calls to get the 
problem resolved. I understand why this all would have been frustrating and Ill be keeping 
this in mind in any compensation I award.
Ultimately, Target agreed to refund her £51 - representing £1 for each month the fees had 
been charged  as it wasnt possible to stop them being applied. Following our investigators 
involvement, its agreed to refund an additional £9 to cover the remaining nine months of 
fees. 
Im satisfied this is an appropriate way to address the issue.
Phone calls.
Ive listened carefully to the various calls Miss W had with Targets representatives when 
discussing the redemption of the loan. 
Target disconnected one of the calls with Miss W and the representative didnt call back to 
finish the conversation. Targets acknowledged it shouldnt have done this and apologised. 
While I accept this was frustrating for Miss W, Im satisfied this apology was an appropriate 
way for it to deal with this issue
Its clear from the calls, Miss W was given some information by a third party agency, when 
she first took out the loan, about the amount she would ultimately need to repay. She said 
the advisor failed to mention the various fees that would be associated with this and it seems 
she wanted to check the other information it had provided her with.
She spoke to several Target representatives and wanted an answer to a number of 
theoretical scenarios involving her repaying the loan and her flat decreasing in value. The 
advisors did try and answer her questions but explained that, due to the nature of the loan, 
there were a number of variables that would impact the amount she had to repay. 
These included - but were not limited to - the percentage reduction in the value of her flat 
and whether the property had experienced damage. A representative explained that, in 
some circumstances, a decision would need to be made either by Target or the Government 
department ultimately responsible for the Help to Buy scheme once all the variables were 
known.
Its clear Miss W found these conversations frustrating as she believed the question she was 
asking was a simple one. But it seems to me the answer would be entirely dependent on the 
circumstances at the time she actually did repay the loan and so I understand why Target 
couldnt say with certainty - and is unlikely to be able to - until all the variables are known. 
I do think though Target should have been clearer and it has acknowledged this and 
apologised. The fact it wasnt clearer caused Miss W to have to spend longer on the phone 
and caused her trouble and upset and Ill keep this in mind when considering any award.
Putting things right
I can understand why Miss W has found her communications with Target confusing and 
frustrating for the reasons Ive explained above. Ive thought about things very carefully and 
having done so, I have decided Target should pay Miss W £60 to refund the fees she was 
charged and a total £75 for the trouble and upset it caused her, deducting anything its paid 
already.
I acknowledge Miss W is unlikely to think this is enough, but Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Target Servicing Limited to pay 
the following sums directly to Miss W, by cheque as shes requested, if it hasnt done so 
already:
Refund the £60 of management fees she will be charged on the loan, less what its 
already paid
£75 for the trouble and upset it caused her, less what its already paid
Target Servicing Limited should pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Miss W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final response to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman