DRN-2214927
The complaint
Mr T complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) led him to believe 
that at the end of his Hire Purchase Agreement the value of the car would exceed the 
outstanding balance, it didnt. He would like compensation for the loss of equity
.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties so  wont repeat them 
again here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
The contract Mr. T signed didnt refer to a guaranteed value for the car at the end of 
the agreement. 
I have no evidence to confirm Mr. T was told that the final optional payment would 
exceed the outstanding balance on the car at the point of sale. I think its unlikely any 
such guarantee could be given. Any number of factors might affect the cars value 
such as the age, mileage, condition and market conditions at the time. 
In terms of the deposit Mr. T made its clear from what I have seen that it was his 
choice to make a significant deposit to keep the monthly repayments just under £300. 
Mr. T was advised against this but still went ahead with making a large deposit. 
Finally, Mr. T made several other points for me to consider around VWFSs actions. 
Unfortunately, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity so not something we 
investigate. In terms of the time VWFS took to deal with his complaint this didnt form 
part of Mr. Ts original complaint so it wouldnt be fair for me to consider this here as 
VWFS hasnt had a chance to comment. If Mr. T remains unhappy with this, he 
needs to raise this with VWFS in the first instance. 
As I have no evidence to show that Mr. T was given any guarantee on the future 
value of the car. And he seems to have not taken advice given around the size of his 
deposit I dont think I can reasonably expect VWFS to compensate Mr. T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
