DRN-3192641
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Evergreen Finance London Ltd (trading as 
MoneyBoat) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about 10 instalment loans which MoneyBoat gave Ms B between 
January 2016 and December 2017. Ms B was lent the following loans:
Loan 
numberLoan amount Date of loanNumber of instalments
1 £200 18/01/2016 2
2 £450 29/02/2016 3
3 £550 27/05/2016 4
4 £800 10/10/2016 6
5 £800 28/03/2017 6
6 £900 02/05/2017 6
7 £400 12/05/2017 4
8 £650 26/05/2017 4
9 £700 02/10/2017 4
10 £800 18/12/2017 6
In summary, together with her representatives, Ms B has said that MoneyBoat mis-sold 
the loans to her. They argue that MoneyBoat failed to complete effective affordability 
assessments before agreeing to lend and that had it done so, it wouldnt have continued 
to lend to her. They argue that she had become dependent on loans and that further 
lending increased her financial problems. So, they believe Ms B shouldnt have been 
given any of the loans in question.
MoneyBoat considered Ms Bs complaint but disagreed it had lent irresponsibly. It 
argued that the checks completed were sufficient and that it relied on both the 
information being provided by Ms B and by completing credit searches and reviewing 
payslips. MoneyBoat commented that there were six instances where it increased 
Ms Bs self-declared expenditure based on other information gathered and five 
instances where it loaned her less than she had requested. It argued that this again 
shows it lent responsibility. 
In addition, MoneyBoat provided a copy of an email exchange it had with Ms B. This 
exchange took place just prior to loan ten. In it MoneyBoat queried Ms Bs financial 
circumstances and the purpose of the loan, given (as MoneyBoat acknowledged) shed 
been borrowing from it for a sustained period. Ms B responded to confirm she wasnt 
experiencing difficulties, she would be able to repay the loan and that the loan was for 
an emergency boiler replacement. MoneyBoat again argued that this demonstrated it 
was a responsible lender.
However, MoneyBoat found that Ms B experienced difficulties in repaying loan ten 
so it offered to repay Ms B the interest she paid on this loan.
Ms B didnt accept the offer and was unhappy with MoneyBoats response, so she referred 
her complaint to our service. Our adjudicator upheld Ms Bs complaint in relation to loans 
three to ten. She felt that from the information MoneyBoat had gathered at the time of 
lending loan three, it shouldve seen that Ms B was having problems managing her money 
and had recently taken out a number of short-term loans. In addition, by loan four the 
adjudicator felt that the overall pattern of lending with MoneyBoat demonstrated that she 
was reliant on short-term lending and that it shouldve realised this lending was 
unsustainable for Ms B.
Ms B accepted our adjudicators assessment. MoneyBoat didnt respond to the 
assessment. A number of attempts have been made to follow this up with MoneyBoat and 
Im satisfied they were sent to the correct address. So, I think MoneyBoat has had 
sufficient opportunity to consider the assessment and provide a response to it. As an 
agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider. As 
Ms B has accepted the assessment, this decision wont consider loans one to two which 
werent upheld.
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I thought this complaint should be partly 
upheld. I asked Mrs B and MoneyBoat to provide me with anything else either party 
would like me to consider before I reached a final decision. In my provisional decision I 
said: 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Ms B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to 
establish whether Ms B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or 
it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Ms Bs complaint. Having done so I currently 
intend to uphold Ms Bs complaint in relation to loans three to ten. Ill explain why 
below.
MoneyBoat has said that prior to each loan it took details of Ms Bs income which it 
verified with payslips and gathered details of her self-declared expenditure. In addition, 
it completed a credit search before agreeing each loan and has provided copies of its 
results.
Loans three and four
Having reviewed the credit search results before agreeing loan three, I can see Ms B 
had taken out multiple short-term loans in the six months prior to this loan. (This is in 
addition to loans one and two.) Ms B had also taken out several unsecured loans. I 
have noted that only one of the unsecured loans (and none of the short-term loans) 
were still outstanding when loan three was agreed. However, Ms Bs borrowing history 
shows a reliance on credit, particularly high cost short-term credit, and clear signs that 
she was having trouble managing her finances without needing to borrow further. I also 
think the same reasoning applies to loan four. Ms Bs credit file results show additional 
unsecured lending and short- term lending taken out between loans three and four.
So, I think MoneyBoat had clear reasons to question her self-declared expenditure 
prior to these loans. And I think it had sufficient information from its own checks to 
show Ms B couldnt have afforded to sustainably repay loans three and four.
Loans five to ten
Looking at loans five to ten, I also dont think they were responsibly lent for largely 
similar reasons. By the time of loan five Ms Bs credit file results continued to show 
shed taken (and repaid) more borrowing since the previous loan. In addition, Ms B had 
also been given four earlier loans by MoneyBoat in a period of just over a year. During 
this period there were very limited gaps between Ms B repaying MoneyBoats previous 
loan and Ms B returning for further lending, so she was almost consistently borrowing 
from MoneyBoat over this period. And the amounts being borrowed had increased 
significantly between loans one and five. In addition, loan five was taken out the 
following day after loan four was repaid. This again was a sign Ms B was dependant on 
credit to manage her finances.
However, MoneyBoat went on to agree a further five loans (after loan five) and in total 
it lent to Ms B almost consistently over a two year period. I think by the time of loan four 
Ms Bs pattern of lending with MoneyBoat, together with what it knew from Ms Bs 
credit file, shouldve highlighted to MoneyBoat that Ms B was demonstrating a reliance 
on credit. And that it was increasing her indebtedness in an unsustainable way. So, 
together with loans three and four, I also dont think MoneyBoat shouldve given any of 
loans five to ten.
MoneyBoat has argued that in five of Ms Bs lending applications she was offered a 
lower amount than she applied for and that in six of the ten loans it increased the amounts of expenditure shed declared. I think this further demonstrates that Ms B was 
struggling financially if in 50% of her applications she needed more than was given, 
particularly given she continued to borrow from other lenders whilst borrowing from 
MoneyBoat. And if Ms B had further expenditure which wasnt being declared this would 
usually suggest that MoneyBoat needed to do more to establish whether or not Ms B 
could sustainably afford to repay the lending. As Ive explained, I think MoneyBoat had 
enough information from its own lending history and the information revealed from 
Ms Bs credit file results to show that Ms B couldnt sustainably afford to repay these 
loans.
Ive noted in MoneyBoats complaint response letter to Ms B it has quoted an email 
exchange it had with Ms B prior to it agreeing loan ten. To summarise, MoneyBoat 
noted that Ms B had been utilising our service on a regular basis and before 
agreeing the loan it wanted to check if she was experiencing financial difficulties, the 
purpose of the loan (including whether it was being used to pay priority debts) and if 
she thinks shell be able to repay it. Ms B replied to say she wasnt experiencing 
difficulties or repaying priority debts. Shes also said the purpose of this loan was for a 
new boiler and stated some emergency always seems to crop up. In addition, she 
said she hopes to repay this loan earlier that the six month term.
Having considered this exchange, I still dont agree this additional check was sufficient 
or that it demonstrated MoneyBoat lent loan ten responsibility. By loan ten MoneyBoat 
had lent to Ms B almost consistently for a period of almost two years and with limited 
gaps in lending. And together with what it knew from Ms Bs credit file, MoneyBoat had 
clear reasons to doubt what it was being told. I think that well before this point 
MoneyBoat ought to have known it was unlikely that her pattern of borrowing was due 
to temporary emergency situations, but rather to meet an ongoing need (regardless of 
what she said to try and help secure the loan).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including 
all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mrs B received my provisional decision, but provided no further comment. MoneyBoat didnt 
respond to my provisional decision. As neither party has provided anything further for me to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions reached in my provisional decision. 
So it follows that I uphold this complaint in part and require MoneyBoat to put things right in 
the way Ive described below.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it stopped lending to Ms B from loan three onwards, as 
Im currently satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all 
hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms B may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would 
(or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly 
dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender 
would have been able to lend to Ms B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms B would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So having considered this, I think MoneyBoat needs to:
refund all interest and charges Ms B paid on loans three to ten;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan three and four from Ms Bs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan five onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries about five to ten should be 
removed from  Ms Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Bs complaint against Evergreen Finance London Ltd in part and direct it 
to pay compensation Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
