DRN-2944703
The complaint
Mr S complained through a professional representative that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) 
exposed his pension funds to unnecessary cost and risks. Prior to the complaint reaching 
the service ReAssure made an offer to put things right. This was accepted by Mr S. 
However, he then changed his mind as hes unhappy with the way in which the redress will 
be paid.  
What happened
Mr S complained to ReAssure about the advice he was given in 1988 to take out a Personal 
Wealth Arrangement policy with it. 
ReAssure said it felt the advice had been suitable but the funds invested in may have been 
too high risk. So it calculated whether Mr S wouldve been better off invested in its Managed 
Fund instead.
Our investigator looked into matters and felt the offer ReAssure had already made was fair 
and reasonable. The investigators recommendation was accepted by Mr S and ReAssure 
were informed and the case closed. However, subsequently Mr Ss representative contacted 
us to say Mr S no longer accepted the offer as he wished to have it paid as cash.
The representative said he felt the payment method of the redress was unfair because Mr 
Ss attitude to risk hasnt been reassessed. He said to pay units into a fund now without 
proper assessment is similar to an adviser selecting a fund without proper consideration. 
And therefore, it is fair to pay the settlement as cash.
The investigator didnt agree and explained his view was that the redress methodology 
wasnt unfair. He said if Mr S attitude to risk had changed he had the option to switch funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree that the solution put forward by ReAssure to this complaint (bar payment) 
was fair and so I do not consider it necessary to comment on the suitability of the initial 
advice. The only issue now in dispute is how the redress should be paid.
The aim of redress is to put a customer back into the position they wouldve been in had the 
error not occurred. ReAssures offer which was accepted by Mr S, was to compare the funds 
he had been invested in with a fund it deemed wouldve been more suitable for him at the 
time. The calculation showed a loss and ReAssure proposed to add the redress to the policy 
which is still in force. Retaining the funds within the pension is not unreasonable considering 
thats the most likely position Mr S wouldve been in had the fund selection advice been 
suitable at outset.
Mr Ss representative argues that adding units to funds without proper assessment is 
essentially unsuitable advice. But I dont agree. Mr S can switch his funds if he thinks the 
funds are unsuitable for him  and he can take advice on this if he wishes to do so.
The complaint was upheld on the basis that the Managed Fund reflected a more suitable 
investment than the actual funds invested in, for Mr S at the time of advice, and he accepted 
this as being fair. And it is within his power to switch all his units into that fund now. If Mr S 
attitude to risk has changed since then, in the event he had been invested in the Managed 
Fund since the start  hed still need to switch or take advice on this now. So, I dont think 
payment into his existing funds is unfair.
In conclusion, Im satisfied ReAssures offer and method of payment of redress was fair and 
reasonable. If Mr S wishes to accept ReAssures offer he should contact it to arrange this, if 
it hasnt already been implemented.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman