DRN-3678316
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill call T, has complained about the settlement offered in response 
to a claim made under its business insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Mr H, as a director of T, has brought the complaint on its behalf. Mr H is also represented in 
the complaint but I will refer to Mr H or T throughout this decision for ease. 
What happened
T held business insurance with AXA. T has said that, on 14 March 2020, a member of staff 
became unwell with Covid-19 symptoms; other members of staff became unwell with similar 
symptoms shortly afterwards. T therefore closed on 16 March 2020. T was also one of the 
businesses that were required to close as a result of the Governments response to the 
pandemic in March 2020 and could not reopen until July 2020. 
T made claims under its policy with AXA for three different periods of closure: 1. for the 
period 16 March to 4 July 2020; 2. for the period 1 September to 14 September 2020; and 3. 
for the period 4 November 2020 to 16 May 2021.  As they are separate claims, I am only 
going to address the first claim for the period from March 2020 in this decision. The handling 
of the other two claims will need to be considered separately.
AXA initially rejected the claim. In early 2022, AXA agreed to reconsider the claim after T 
complained to us. AXA subsequently agreed to meet the claim but has said it will only cover 
the losses T incurred over the two weeks from 16 March 2020, as that was the advised 
isolation period at the time. AXA says the fact that T could not reopen at the end of that two 
week period, was as a result of the Government response to the general pandemic and was 
not a result of the case at Ts premises. In May 2022, AXA offered £11,103 for that two week 
period (having worked out Ts expected revenue, minus costs savings as a result of being 
closed).  
T is very unhappy with this, as it says the claim should be paid for the period it was closed. T 
is also unhappy with the time taken to settle the claim. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter and recommended it be upheld. 
The Investigator considered that the judgments in The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v 
Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 1 (the FCA test case) were relevant. While 
the Courts were not asked to consider the exact terms that are in Ts policy, which require 
the relevant event of disease to have happened at the premises (at the premises clauses), 
the Investigator thought the findings of the Supreme Court in relation to policies requiring 
that the event happen with a particular radius of the premises (radius clauses) were useful 
in considering at the premises clause related complaints. 
The Investigator said that the Supreme Court had essentially found that each case of Covid-
19 was a separate but broadly equal cause of the Governments response to the pandemic 
(i.e. the imposition of The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) Regulations 2020, 
which Ill call the March Regulations) and the business interruption that resulted from this; 
that they were each concurrent proximate causes of the Governments decisions. And that 
these decisions had taken into account reported and unreported cases. As such, the 
Investigator considered that the case of Covid-19 that AXA had accepted had been suffered 
by an employee on Ts premises was a concurrent cause of the March Regulations. 
The Investigator therefore considered the impact of the restrictions on T was something that 
was covered by the policy. She thought Ts claim should be met, subject to any remaining 
terms of the policy, on the basis that the closure of its premises from 16 March to 4 July 
2020 was caused by an insured event. She also thought interest should be added to the 
settlement of the claim. 
AXA does not accept the Investigators assessment. However, AXA says there are court 
cases in progress that would determine the correct application of the exact terms of Ts 
policy and that I should not issue my decision until those cases are determined. AXA says I 
am required to take account of relevant law and there will be a judgment on this specific 
clause. 
As far as I am aware there has been no judgment made on the cases referred to yet. I do not 
think it would be fair to wait until those are finalised. It is my responsibility to determine what 
I think is the fair and reasonable outcome as soon as reasonably possible, having regard to 
industry guidance, good practice and the law. I think I am able to carry out a fair 
consideration of the complaint having regard to all the circumstances of the matter, including 
current case law. 
AXA also says the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) did not seek to persuade the 
Supreme Court there was cover for disease at the premises. It only asked the Courts to 
consider radius clauses, where cover was provided in the event of disease within a certain 
specified radius of the insured premises. The Supreme Court did not consider at the 
premises clauses like Ts at all. This is because at the premises clauses were intended to 
provide narrow, localised cover for specific circumstances at the premises, with specific 
consequences. This is different from the commercial purpose of the radius clauses 
considered in the FCA test case and the findings on radius clauses were based on the 
contemplated risk being that a notifiable disease could affect a wide area. 
In addition, even on the Supreme Court analysis the Government would have needed 
knowledge of cases of Covid-19 for them to be causative. No relevant competent authority 
would have had knowledge of any specific case at Ts premises and was instead acting on 
the basis of information as to cases at a national, regional or local authority level. 
As the Investigator has not been able to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The business interruption section of Ts policy provides cover for a number of events. Many 
of these relate to damage and it isnt argued that damage as required by the policy is what 
led to Ts business being interrupted. But the business interruption section also provides 
cover for insured loss in consequence of:
closure of the Premises by a competent authority due to an human notifiable 
infectious disease or food poisoning suffered by any visitor or employee or by defective sanitation vermin or pests at the Premises as specified in the schedule or
by murder or suicide occurring at the Premises.
AXA accepted that at least one of Ts employees had suffered Covid-19, which is a human 
notifiable infectious disease, and that T was required to close as a result on 16 March 2020. 
The issue in dispute is whether AXA is only responsible for the losses that occurred during 
the 14 days from 16 March 2020 which was the advised isolation period at that time, or the 
entire period from 16 March until 4 July 2020.   
The relevant policy term above has a number of elements, and for there to be cover each 
element has to be met in the correct causal sequence. This means that for there to be cover 
the following has to be established:
1. an employee or visitor has to suffer a human notifiable infectious disease at Ts premises, 
which causes
2. closure of the premises by a competent authority, which causes
3. an interruption or interference with Ts business that is the cause of financial loss.
I agree with the Investigator that The Supreme Court judgment on the FCA test case is 
relevant. Some of the terms considered by the Supreme Court referred to the occurrence of 
a disease, whereas others required there to have been a manifestation. Ts policy requires a 
person to have suffered from the disease. I dont consider there to be any significant 
difference here in terms of the application of the reasoning around causation. The only 
difference is in relation to the circumstances covered and the proof required to evidence that. 
Once this evidential burden is overcome (and AXA has already accepted that Covid-19 was 
suffered at Ts premises) the application of the courts reasoning on causation is, in my 
view, unlikely to be different.
The question of whether the placing of restrictions on Ts premises by the 
Governments announcement in March 2020 and the March Regulations was as a result of 
the suffering of Covid-19 at Ts premises, is one of causation. The appropriate test of 
causation here is to consider, objectively and in the context of the policy as a whole, what 
the intended effect of the policy term was as it applies to the circumstances of the claim.
So, the first question to determine is whether the reasoning of the Supreme Court, in the 
FCA test case, on radius clauses applies to at the premises clauses. This is an issue that 
has already been considered by this service and a copy of a relevant final decision has been 
shared with AXA. However, it disagrees with the approach of this service. 
But whilst different policies have different wordings, there is no significant difference 
between the contractual construction of the radius clauses to the at the premises clauses. 
The only difference between these clauses is the geographical area that they cover. 
AXA says that it is this difference in geographical area that is relevant to the current 
case. It says the at the premises clauses such as in Ts policy were intended to restrict 
cover to specific events at the premises only. 
The Supreme Court had not been asked to determine the correct interpretation of at the 
premises clauses. But its comments, at paragraph 71 of its judgment, were made in relation 
to a specific policy. The policy being considered by the court included both in the radius 
and at the premises subclauses, and this was likely to be context the court bore in mind 
when considering the potential meaning of the term. This is not the case with Ts policy.The Supreme Court said that the scope of the insured peril for an at the premises clause 
was not the entire outbreak even if there was an occurrence on the premises, this was also 
the conclusion it reached in relation to the radius clauses. The Supreme Court found that the 
insured peril for radius clauses was also not the entire outbreak provided it came within the 
radius. There was no distinction between radius and premises clauses drawn by the 
Supreme Court here. And I consider both types of clause provide cover for cases within their 
geographical limits and not cover for cases elsewhere. 
It is to this point that the geographical limit is relevant. But the Supreme Courts reasoning  
that the insured peril is each case of Covid-19 that falls within the geographical limit of the 
clause  applies equally to at the premises clauses as it does to radius clauses.
Additionally, the Supreme Court did not make any distinction between radius clauses and 
premises clauses when these were combined in the same policy. A single case  even at the 
premises  was considered sufficient for the cover to respond and to cover the losses 
sustained by the insured party as a result of that occurrence. The Supreme Court confirmed 
that a single case can be enough for causation to be established under a radius clause, and 
there would be cover under a clause containing both a premises and radius subclauses if the 
only case of Covid-19, within the geographical limits of the clause, was at the premises. 
As has been said, the only significant difference in the construction of the at the premises 
clauses with the radius clauses is the geographical area they specify. This can be 
undefined, the whole country, a 25-mile radius, a 250-metre radius, or the policyholders 
premises. A clause that sets out a smaller area only acts to limit the possibility of a case 
occurring, and so limit the chances of a claim being made. This is a reasonable and 
understandable commercial intent by an underwriter.
I should also point out here that the premises of some policyholders will be greater than a 
250-metre radius. And it would be illogical to consider that a policy requiring a case of 
Covid-19 within a radius smaller than a policyholders premises would provide cover for the 
consequences of the March Regulations, but that this would not be the case if the policy 
specified a larger area  that of the entire premises.
I am not persuaded that, had the policy being considered by the court at that time referred 
only to a radius of 5-miles, 1-mile, 250 metres, or been limited to the extent of the premises, 
a different conclusion would have been reached. The key issue the court was referring to 
here in terms of causation was, to my mind, the point that it is not just the impact of cases of 
disease within the relevant radius, whatever that may be, that are relevant to causation. The 
size of that radius was not, in my view, a key consideration here.
More significant to my mind is the type of diseases being covered and the fact that these will 
often have an impact both within and without the radius relevant to any policy whether that 
be 25-miles, 250-metres or the limits of the insureds premises. I will return to this point 
below. 
Ultimately, the court found that the approach that applied to the interpretation of the insured 
peril was the same for both radius clauses and at the premises clauses. And that this was 
that clause only covers the cases of Covid-19 which happen within that radius. The cover is 
for the cases of disease within the radius (or at the premises, depending on the wording of 
the policy), not for the disease itself nor for the consequences of diseases outside the 
radius/premises.
The impact on the cover of requiring the disease to have been suffered on the premises is 
the same as is provided by a policy limiting the relevant radius to one mile, rather than 25 
miles. It does not change the form of cover provided, it merely lowers the chance of the policy term being activated. There is less chance of a disease event (manifestation, 
occurrence or suffering)  at the premises than within one mile of the premises, and there is 
less chance of a disease event within one mile of the premises than within 25 miles. Each 
individual event, regardless of where it happened, was an equal cause of the restrictions 
being imposed. But for the impact of that disease event to be covered, it must have 
happened within the geographical limit set by the policy.
Taken at face value, radius clauses offer the same type of cover as at the premises clauses 
 the only difference being a smaller geographical area where the manifestation needs to 
take place before resulting business interruption is covered. 
As mentioned above, I consider the type of disease covered by the policy is also a relevant 
consideration. Ts policy, as with many similar policies  both those with radius clauses and 
at the premises clauses - provides cover for notifiable infectious human diseases. 
Effectively, this is any of the diseases on the list of notifiable disease in Schedule 1 of The 
Health Protection (Notification) Regulations 2010, including any new disease added to this 
list. 
Covid-19 was added to the list in early March 2020, which is why Ts policy provides any 
cover at all in the circumstances. 
Many of the diseases are unlikely to have originated at the premises, so any occurrence 
there is likely to be part of a larger outbreak. If AXA had wanted to restrict cover in Ts 
policy to disease originating at the premises, it could have done so. But it did not.
The same risk of a widespread and unpredictable outbreak of disease applies to both radius 
clauses and at the premises clauses. If these wide-spreading diseases are on the 
policyholders premises, they are also likely to be found outside of these premises. So, 
whether or not the disease is on the premises, it seems that the actions of the relevant 
authority will in fact largely be the same.
It is likely restrictions would be introduced covering a broad geographical area in relation to 
many of the diseases covered by Ts policy. And this would have been something that both 
AXA and T might reasonably have been aware of at the time the insurance contract 
was entered. 
I note the Supreme Courts comments at paragraph 194 of its judgment in 
respect of this point:
we consider that the matters of background knowledge to which the court below 
attached weight in interpreting the policy wordings are important. The parties to the 
insurance contracts may be presumed to have known that some infectious diseases - 
including, potentially, a new disease (like SARS) - can spread rapidly, widely and 
unpredictably. It is obvious that an outbreak of an infectious disease may not be 
confined to a specific locality or to a circular area delineated by a radius of 25 miles 
around a policyholders premises. Hence no reasonable person would suppose that, 
if an outbreak of an infectious disease occurred which included cases within such a 
radius and was sufficiently serious to interrupt the policyholders business, all the 
cases of disease would necessarily occur within the radius. It is highly likely that such 
an outbreak would comprise cases both inside and outside the radius and that 
measures taken by a public authority which affected the business would be taken in 
response to the outbreak as a whole and not just to those cases of disease which 
happened to fall within the circumference of the circle described by the radius 
provision.I consider this reasoning also applies in relation to a policy which provides cover only where 
there is a suffering of the disease by an employee or visitor at the premises of the insured. 
Whilst some of the notifiable diseases covered by the policy would in some cases be limited 
to a very localised outbreak  potentially contained to the premises  many of the diseases 
covered by the policy would inherently be those that would be found beyond the premises if 
they were ever at the premises. As with radius clauses, it would be contrary to the 
commercial purpose of the policies for cases of disease suffered outside the premises to 
deprive the policyholder of cover for cases at the premises.
I consider it likely that if there were employees and/or visitors suffering from many of the 
diseases covered by Ts policy, the actions taken would likely have been similar. 
The actions taken by other governments in relation to outbreaks of SARS and Ebola which 
led to broad geographical areas or multiple types of business having restrictions imposed on 
them would provide examples of this. It seems that the more likely the disease is to be wide-
spreading, the more wide-spread the restrictions will be that are imposed to control that 
disease.
By including cover for a number of diseases where the likely actions to be taken would be 
those that would impact more than a single premises, I considered AXA has seemingly 
agreed to provide cover where actions are taken (in relevant situations) that impact more 
than just the insureds premises.
Additionally, Ts policy provided cover for up to £500,000 over a 12-month indemnity period 
for its at the premises cover. I consider this undermines the suggestion that the clause is 
only intended to provide short-term cover for an incident which is only on the premises and 
not elsewhere. It is highly unlikely, in my opinion, that such a limited event would lead to 
such a lengthy and expensive claim.
The Supreme Court found that each and every occurrence of Covid-19 was an 
approximately equal and proximate cause of the Governments decision-making process. 
The Supreme Court set out some general principles or standards to be applied when 
considering the proximate cause of loss. These included determining whether a peril that is 
covered by the policy had any causal involvement and, if so, whether a peril that was 
excluded from the cover provided by the policy had any such involvement. And then 
determining whether the occurrence of one of these made the loss inevitable in the ordinary 
course of events.
The court went onto say that whilst the Governments decisions to introduce the restrictions 
in March 2020 could not reasonably be attributed to any individual occurrence of Covid-19, 
this decision was taken in response to all the cases in the country as a whole. And the 
Supreme Court agreed with the High Court here that, all the cases were equal causes of the 
imposition of national measures. 
The Supreme Court found that here was no reason why one insured event, acting in 
combination within a number of uninsured events, should not be regarded as a proximate 
cause of loss even if that insured event was not necessary or sufficient to bring about the 
loss on its own. And that; Whether that causal connection is sufficient to trigger the insurers 
obligation to indemnify the policyholder depends on what has been agreed between them.
As such, a key issue was what risks AXA agreed to cover. This is a question of 
contractual interpretation of Ts policy, answered by applying the intended effect of the policy 
to the circumstances of Ts claim.
In making its findings in the test case, the Supreme Court relied on the presumption that an infectious and contagious disease  like many of those AXA chose to cover in Ts 
policy  can spread rapidly, widely and unpredictably, so that an outbreak which is 
sufficiently serious to lead to a policyholder suffering an interruption to their business was 
highly likely to include cases inside and outside the radius relevant to the policy. The court 
found it would not be feasible, and would be contrary to the commercial intent of the policy, 
for cases outside of the radius to deprive the policyholder of cover in relation to cases within 
the radius. I note the comments of paragraph 206 of the Supreme Court judgment which 
support this.
Radius clauses did not limit cover to situations where the interruption of the business was 
caused only by cases of disease manifesting within the area, as distinct from other cases 
outside the area. And, in such circumstances, other concurrent effects on an insured 
business of the underlying cause of the business interruption, i.e. the pandemic generally, do 
not reduce the indemnity under the relevant clause.
I see no persuasive reason why the considerations that the Supreme Court applied generally 
to radius clauses do not equally apply to at the premises clauses. And consider the same 
applies here to Ts complaint. As the Supreme Court said, all that is necessary for a radius 
clause which also requires the closure to be as a result of, for example, government action, 
is for the closure or restrictions to be in response to cases of Covid-19 which included at 
least one case existing within the geographical area set out in the relevant clause.  
In Ts case, this geographical area is its premises and AXA agreed there was at least one 
employee suffering from Covid-19 within this area. And I consider the Governments actions 
and advice were in response to cases of Covid-19, which included the case(s) that 
at Ts premises.
It might be that the case(s) of Covid-19 at Ts premises would not have been reported to 
the Government at the time it made its decision. But I do not consider this point 
to be crucial in terms of the discussion of causation. It is clear that as well as the reported
cases that the Government was specifically aware of, the decision it took was also made due 
to the estimated number of unreported cases. 
It was the number of these unreported cases, as well as the reported ones, that led to the 
Government making its decision. Each one of these reported and unreported cases will have 
arguably been a proximate cause of the Governments decision-making process. But it 
would not be possible for estimated cases to lead to an insurance claim where an actual 
suffering of the disease was required by the policy.
By the time the decision to introduce the March Regulations was taken, a number of 
individuals included in the figures of who had sustained Covid-19 may already have 
recovered. But I consider these cases would still be those that, together with the other cases 
around that time, were the concurrent causes of the Governments decision. The 
Government and its advisors were not looking at individual cases in isolation, they were 
considering the accumulation of these which would have formed the framework of the rate of 
infection and allowed for a prediction as to the future R-number and resultant 
hospitalisations.
Although each case of disease was individual, the effects of the disease  the Governments 
measures  were indivisible. And as the Supreme Court said at paragraph 212 of its 
judgment: 
each of the individual cases of illness resulting from COVID-19 which had 
occurred by the date of any Government action was a separate and equally effective 
cause of that actionI appreciate that part of the cause of Ts continued closure in the present case is the same 
as its initial closure (i.e. the suffering of Covid-19 at the premises). But, the term in the 
policy is a composite one. The term requires both the suffering of disease and the action of 
the competent authority. It is the action of this authority that is also an integral element of the 
continued closure and this action had not taken place at the time of the initial closure. Prior 
to the Prime Ministers announcement in March 2020, there were no specific restrictions that 
had been placed on the premises that caused any interruption to its business.
Ts policy does require that the action is taken by the competent authority and I dont think 
there is any dispute that this was the case. 
As such, taking all the circumstances of the complaint into account, I consider that Ts policy 
should cover it for the losses it sustained when it was interrupted by the Prime Ministers 
announcement and the subsequent regulations made on 21 March and 26 March 2020, in 
addition to the period from 16 March 2020 already agreed. This means I consider AXA is 
liable for the full extent of the period T was closed from 16 March to 4 July 2020, which is 
when I understand T would have been able to reopen. 
Conclusion
Having considered how the terms of Ts policy would likely have been interpreted by a 
reasonable person at the point the contract was entered into, bearing in mind that it is a 
policy sold to SMEs. I dont think a reasonable person would interpret a clause that provides 
£500,000 and 12 months of cover in relation to various diseases, including those most likely 
to be wide-spread and hence requiring far-reaching measures to tackle them, to be limited to 
consequences directed solely at the insureds premises.
I think it is reasonable to read Ts at the premises clause, in the context of the rest of the 
policy and the circumstances of the claim, as providing cover for losses resulting from a 
person having suffered Covid-19 at its premises. Although I cant be sure, I also this this was 
more likely than not that this is how a court would interpret this term.
Given the findings of the Supreme Court, I also think the suffering at Ts premises 
was an equally effective concurrent cause of the decision to introduce the March 
Regulations, as the suffering of the disease beyond the limits of Ts premises. And the cases 
off the premises are not an excluded cause.
Referring back to the elements of the insured peril I set out earlier in my decision, in their 
correct causal sequence, and taking the points above into account, I am satisfied that:
An illness caused by Covid-19 was suffered by a person at Ts premises.
This was a proximate and concurrent cause of the Governments 
decision to introduce the March Regulations.
These March Regulations were introduced by a competent authority.
These Regulations required the closure of Ts premises; and
this closure caused an interruption or interference with Ts business that likely 
caused a loss.
As the elements of Ts disease clause have been met in the circumstances, I consider 
AXAs decision to limit Ts claim to the period up to 28 March 2020 and not cover the losses 
sustained as a result of the Governments restrictions was not made correctly. And so I dont 
consider AXA dealt with Ts complaint fairly or reasonably. AXA should reconsider the claim 
from 16 March to 4 July 2020. Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I consider Ts complaint should be upheld. In order to put 
things right AXA should:
Reconsider Ts claim on the basis that there was an occurrence on its premises that 
caused an interruption to its business from 16 March 2020 to 4 July 2020.
If, taking into account the remaining terms of the policy and any payment already 
made in respect of this claim for the period 16 to 28 March 2020, any settlement is 
due to T, AXA should pay this. Any excess that is payable should deducted from the 
total claim amount, before any policy limit is applied.
AXA should pay T interest on this settlement.
AXA should also pay T interest on any amount already paid in settlement of the claim 
for the period it already agreed from 16 March 2020.
T first made the claim on 23 March 2020. So the interest payable on the settlement should 
be based on T having been deprived of four monthly interim payments that should have 
been made during the course of the claim. 
The first of these payments should have been paid on 16 May 2020 and should have 
covered Ts indemnified losses for the period 16 March 2020 to 15 April 2020 inclusive. 
Subsequent monthly payments should have been based on losses for the periods; 
16 April 2020 to 15 May 2020, 16 May 2020 to 15 June 2020, and 16 June 2020 to 
4 July 2020. These payments should have been made on 16 June 2020, 16 July 2020, and 
16 August 2020 respectively. 
AXA should pay T interest on the amount of each of these interim payments, for the 
period from the date of each of these interim payments should have been made to the date 
of settlement. This interest should be paid at a rate of 8% simple per annum. If AXA has 
already paid part of the sum due for the period 16 March to 15 April 2020, then interest only 
needs to be paid on that part of this payment from 16 May 2020 (which is when I think the 
payment for this period of loss should have been paid) to the date of actual payment to T.  
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman