DRN-1275443
 
Complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold him a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr H was sold a PPI policy in 1990 in connection with a loan. The PPI would have provided 
a monthly benefit for up to 24 months if Mr H was off work sick or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr H didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr H was eligible under the policy. Based on his age, 
residence and employment at the time of the sale, Im satisfied that Mr H was eligible for the 
policy. 
BoS had to make it clear to Mr H that the PPI was optional and needed his consent before it 
could be applied to Mr Hs account. Mr H says that PPI wasnt mentioned to him  so in 
effect, Mr H is saying PPI was sold to him without his knowledge.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. And BoS no longer have the 
documents from the time of the sale. This is understandable given that the sale took place 
almost 30 years ago. Equally understandably Mr H no longer has the documents from the 
time of the sale. But what this does mean is that I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
conclude that its more likely that BoS didnt make it clear to Mr H that the policy was 
optional or that it was sold without his consent.
BoS say they advised Mr H to take PPI. This means had to check if the PPI was suitable 
for  Mr H. I cant say that BoS checked all the things they should have but I do think the PPI 
was suitable for Mr H. I say this because:
 
Mr H has told us he wasnt entitled to any sick pay (other than statutory sick pay) and 
had no other (guaranteed) means of meeting his repayments. I appreciate Mr H has 
said his partner could help meet the repayments. But circumstances change and it wasnt guaranteed that this help would have been available to him if/when the need 
arose. So the PPI would have been the only certain way of Mr H meeting his 
repayments if he was off work sick or lost his job. And the PPI would have provided a 
monthly benefit for a considerable period of time. 
 
Mr H doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy. For 
examples, terms relating to certain medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
 
I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mr H.
 
Mr H could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
 
BoS also had to give Mr H clear information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, 
benefits and main exclusions in the policy  so that he could make an informed decision 
about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr H wasnt as clear as it should have been but this in 
itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put him off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for him.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr H this PPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman