DRN-4398404
The complaint
Mr H says that a holiday product was mis-sold to him. Because he used his credit card, 
issued by John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) to make payment, he says that he 
has a claim against it, in the same way as against the seller.  
What happened
Mr H has explained that he and his wife were timeshare owners and that they were unhappy 
with the product they had bought. They were contacted by a business, C, which said it could 
help them recover the money they had lost as a result of buying the timeshare product. In 
order to register their claim, however, they would need to travel to Tenerife.
Mr and Mrs H travelled to Tenerife in January 2019. While there, they signed an 
Accommodation Contract with Alternative Travel SL. The contract recorded that they paid 
£3,750 (€4,200.75) for holiday accommodation. It also said:
We understand .the-accommodation in the Canaries is a onetime only purchase and 
Alternative Travel have paid for this accommodation in full today including taxes to our 
subsidiary Travel Agent suppliers and therefore this purchase cannot be cancelled.
We understand the second week of accommodation is a onetime only purchase and is 
reserved today including taxes, and Alternative Travel SL have paid this accommodation in 
full to our subsidiary Travel Agent Suppliers, and therefore this purchase cannot be 
cancelled.
In May 2022 Mr H contacted JLFS. He said he had a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. He said he had bought a membership service from Alternative 
Travel. He and Mrs H had been shown a website featuring a wide range of holidays. They 
would only need to pay an initial fee, which they would get back. He had not however 
received the service he had paid for. 
Mr H explained too how he and Mrs H had come to be in Tenerife  that is, they were 
seeking to recover money they had paid for their timeshare. 
Mr H says that when he asked about the accommodation referred to in the Accommodation 
Contract, he was told that it did not apply to him and Mrs H; that payment was for the week 
they had spent in Tenerife, and it would be returned. 
Mr H says too that he was told that he would receive £11,250, which he would then pay back 
as part of the tax arrangements. He asked if those arrangements were legal, and he was 
assured they were. He was later contacted about a loan for £11,250, which he did not in the 
event take out. 
JLFS did not accept Mr Hs claim. It said that he had not shown that he had a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against Alternative Travel; it followed that Mr H did 
not have a valid claim under section 75. 
Mr H referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. The 
investigator did not recommend that it be upheld. He was not persuaded there had been a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation. Mr H asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that, subject to certain conditions, 
an individual who pays for goods or services with a credit card and who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against the supplier has a like claim against the 
credit card provider. I am satisfied that the necessary conditions were met in this case, so 
Ive considered what Mr H has said about his involvement with Alternative Travel and the 
contract with that company. 
On the face of it, the contract was for the provision of holiday accommodation. No 
cancellation was permitted. Mr H says however that he was told that the accommodation 
elements of the contract did not apply to him. There is, however, no mention of any other 
service which Alternative Travel agreed to supply. Specifically, there is nothing in the 
contract about making a claim against a timeshare company, or any reference to any kind of 
subscription or discount service.      
Mr H has not provided any information about the accommodation he paid for in January 
2019. He has not said whether he tried to book it or use it or, if he did, what the outcome 
was. He has said however that he was told at the time that he was not paying for 
accommodation  contrary to what the contract said. 
It appears therefore that Mr H signed a contract which bears no relation at all to what he 
says he was told he was paying for. But there is no documentation relevant to what he says 
he thought he was buying  a membership or discount scheme, or a timeshare claims 
service. Nor is there any reference to any price for those services or to payment. And the 
timeshare claims service was, according to Mr H, offered by C, not by Alternative Travel. 
I think it quite likely that Mr H has been the victim of sharp practice in this case. I do not 
believe however that he has shown that he has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against Alternative Travel. It follows that the response of JLFS to his 
section 75 claim was reasonable in the circumstances.       
I said that I was not minded to uphold the complaint. 
Neither Mr H nor JLFS had anything to add in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have received no further evidence or arguments in response to my provisional decision, 
I see no reason to reach any different conclusions. In saying that, however, I have reviewed 
the case in full before reaching my final decision.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and do not 
require John Lewis Financial Services Limited to take any further steps to resolve it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman