DRN-4447025
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the way Monzo Bank Ltd treated her following a disputed 
transaction claim and that it hasnt provided her with an acceptable level of compensation.  
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief. 
On 17 May 2023 Miss S raised a disputed transaction claim with Monzo when she didnt 
receive goods shed paid for. The claim was for £82.99. Monzo refunded the payment to 
Miss S whilst it investigated the claim  but on the same day, she also received the money 
back from the merchant. 
Monzo contacted Miss S on 26 May 2023 saying it would collect the £82.99 it had refunded 
to her within 14 days. It said she should make sure she had enough funds to cover the 
payment. Monzo added: 
If youre worried about repaying this amount, please let us know and well do what we 
can to help. 
Miss S contacted Monzo the same day to say she was unable to meet the payment and was 
worried about the implications of not doing so. This was acknowledged by Monzo who said it 
would refer the case to its financial support team. 
Miss S chased Monzo on several occasions between 26 May and 5 June 2023 but had no 
response so she made a complaint. 
Monzos financial support team contacted Miss S on 6 June 2023 asking for more 
information about her financial situation. Monzo collected the £82.99 payment on 9 June 
2023 meaning Miss Ss account was overdrawn. 
On 10 June 2023 Miss S said shed told Monzo she couldnt afford for it to debit the £82.99  
but it had done it anyway. She said this was seriously impacting her mental health. Monzo 
said it would refer the case to a specialist team for customers who need extra support. 
Miss S asked for an update on 11,12 and 13 June 2023 as she was worried she was being 
charged interest and overdraft charges. Monzo said her case had been referred and there 
was no update at this time. Miss S became very upset and distressed and asked Monzo to 
freeze interest on the overdraft until the matter was sorted out.  
On 14 June 2023 Monzos specialist customer support team contacted Miss S as it was 
concerned about her wellbeing. Monzo carried out several welfare checks on Miss S given 
her obvious distress at the situation. Miss S confirmed she was safe - but wanted a payment 
plan in place and for interest to be frozen. 
On 16 June 2023 Monzo again contacted Miss S for information about her financial situation 
to arrange the payment plan. Miss S replied to say she wasnt feeling well enough to provide 
this information and pointed out that shed contacted Monzo within the 14-day deadline 
about a payment plan, but this had still not been put in place. 
Monzo responded and suggested to Miss S that she add funds to her account to clear the 
overdraft as this could impact her credit score. 
Miss S replied on 20 June 2023 saying shed been trying to sort this out for over three weeks 
and wanted to speak to a manager. Monzo said it would freeze interest on the overdraft until 
20 July 2023. 
Monzo contacted Miss S again on 25 June 2023 and explored different communication 
options with her given the vulnerabilities shed mentioned. 
On 26 June 2023 Miss S said she wouldnt provide any information to Monzo until her 
complaint had been dealt with. She chased Monzo for an update on several occasions 
between 7July and 31 August 2023. The interest freeze was extended until 19 August 2023. 
Miss S referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman on 31 August 2023. Monzo 
issued its response to Miss Ss complaint on 6 September 2023.
Monzo said it was right to have refunded the £82.99 to Miss S and collected it back once the 
money was returned from the merchant  as this was its normal process to ensure a 
customer isnt out of pocket whilst it investigates a disputed transaction. And it didnt think it 
had discriminated against Miss S. But Monzo upheld Miss Ss complaint in terms of the 
service it had provided around the collection of the £82.99; the delays shed experienced in 
having her complaint considered; and for its general poor customer service. Monzo paid 
Miss S a total of £205.83 for the distress and inconvenience caused, which included a refund 
of overdraft charges (83 pence). 
Monzo also provided Miss S with an explanation of what went wrong, apologised, and said it 
would provide feedback to its staff to prevent repeated mistakes. 
Our Investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. In short, 
she thought the £205.83 paid by Monzo was fair. Miss S didnt agree, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
Miss S didnt think wed taken her concerns seriously or fully understood the impact Monzos 
actions had on her. She was also concerned that we hadnt considered all the evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Miss S and Id like to assure her I 
havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence provided  which includes 
Monzos business file which it provided after our Investigator sent her opinion to Miss S. And 
Id like to assure Miss S that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent 
considered it, but Ive focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the outcome of 
this complaint. I appreciate Miss Ss strength of feeling  and I dont underestimate the impact that Monzos 
accepted shortcomings had on her. She had the worry of her account being overdrawn and 
the cost and credit implications that had - and the situation was then made worse because of 
Monzos poor handling of both the credit recollection and Miss Ss complaint. Those failings 
by Monzo undoubtedly added to Miss Ss distress and caused her a level of inconvenience 
and upset. So, my review has focused on whether Monzo has done enough to rectify this. 
When considering what a business should do to put things right, its not my role to punish it  
instead I look at the direct impact its shortcomings have had on a customer. In Miss Ss 
case, the initial distress and upset was caused by the fact she had to repay the £82.99  
which wasnt because of a mistake by Monzo. But I accept that Monzos handling of the 
situation, after Miss S alerted it to the fact she couldnt afford the payment, significantly 
exacerbated this distress and upset. 
Looking over the correspondence between Miss S and Monzo I agree that things were not 
handled well by Monzo and that this clearly contributed to Miss Ss distress. Monzo 
recognised this and reacted to concerns it had about Miss Ss wellbeing by providing 
appropriate support, which Id expect it to do. Monzo also accepted things went wrong and 
has explained what caused some of the delay. It has refunded the overdraft charges (83 
pence), apologised for its shortcomings, and paid Miss S £205 for the distress and 
inconvenience its poor service caused her.
In taking all of this into account, I consider the £205.83 Monzo has paid to Miss S to be a fair 
and reasonable level of compensation and in line with what Id have awarded had Monzo not 
made an offer. And I think this payment, combined with Monzos acceptance and apologies 
for his shortcomings, means it has taken reasonable steps to put things right. 
So, Im not going to tell Monzo to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman