DRN-3746315
The complaint
Mrs S complains that she is being chased by debt collectors for an outstanding debt Lloyds 
Bank PLC (Lloyds) wrongly sold to it. Mrs S is also unhappy about the service she received 
by Lloyds when trying to resolve her complaint.
What happened
Mrs S held a bank account with Lloyds. In 2012 due to a disputed transaction the account 
went into unarranged overdraft. Lloyds closed the account at which point it had an 
outstanding balance of £116.40. In 2013 this was sold to a third party debt collection agency. 
Mrs S started receiving letters from the debt collection agency regarding the outstanding 
balance in 2021. Mrs S says she wasnt aware of the debt and believes that the transaction 
that caused her account to become overdrawn was fraudulent.
Mrs S raised a complaint with Lloyds over the phone about being chased for the debt so 
many years after the event. Lloyds did not think there had been any error on its behalf in the 
processes it followed as it found no record of a fraud claim ever being made. But as a 
gesture of goodwill it agreed to write off the debt. Following the phone call Lloyds sent Mrs S 
a final response letter to the address it had recorded for her which was unfortunately her old 
address that had not been updated.
Having not received the expected final response letter Mrs S phoned Lloyds on more than 
one occasion to chase for this. Mrs S was wrongly advised that Lloyds could send the final 
response letter by email and after once again not receiving this she chased Lloyds again. At 
this point Mrs Ss address details were updated and she was sent a copy of the final 
response letter. 
Mrs S was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Ss complaint who didnt think Lloyds had made any 
errors with selling the debt to a third party but thought Lloyds should compensate her £50 for 
the stress and inconvenience the matter caused her when trying to resolve it. 
Mrs S didnt doesnt think £50 is enough to compensate her for the terrible customer service 
she received and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems a consumer has experienced and see if the business has 
done anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put the consumer back in the 
position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mrs Ss complaint is that she is being wrongly chased for a debt so many years after it 
occurred. So the question I have to ask is whether Lloyds made a mistake in selling the debt 
to a third party debt collection agency when it closed Mrs Ss account with an outstanding 
balance on it. And I dont think it did. I say this because although the transaction that put Mrs 
Ss account into unauthorised overdraft was disputed, there is no record Mrs S ever raised a 
fraud claim on this. So with the balance on the account remaining outstanding Lloyds took 
the decision to close the account and sell the debt  something it is entitled to do. 
I accept many years have passed since Lloyds sold the debt and Mrs S is only now being 
chased for this. It is unclear why the third party debt collection agency waited so long to take 
action  but this isnt anything to do with the actions of Lloyds or a mistake it made. So I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to compensate Mrs S for this when no error has 
been found on its behalf. Nevertheless, as a gesture of goodwill Lloyds agreed to have the 
outstanding balance written off and effectively have put Mrs S in the position she wouldve 
been in if the debt hadnt been sold. 
Mrs S is also unhappy at the customer service she received when trying to have the matter 
resolved. Lloyds final response letter was initially sent to Mrs Ss old address and 
understandably Mrs S is concerned about this. But again I cant say Lloyds did anything 
wrong here as it sent the letter to the most recent address it had for her and it is Mrs Ss 
responsibility to ensure the details Lloyds have for her are updated as her circumstances 
change. 
However, I do agree that the customer service Mrs S received wasnt as good as it shouldve 
been. Lloyds failed to return a phone call and provided incorrect advice regarding the 
emailing of its final response letters. This meant Mrs S had to again chase for a written 
response to her complaint causing her some inconvenience which I think she should be 
compensated for. 
And Im in agreement with our adjudicator here that paying Mrs S £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused is a fair and reasonable way to settle her complaint and Im not going 
to ask Lloyds to compensate any more. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive I think £50 compensation is a fair way to settle Mrs Ss 
complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman