DRN-2259465
The complaint
Mr C complains that IGO4 Limited cancelled his insurance policy without giving him sufficient 
notice. 
What happened
Mr C took out a car insurance policy from IGO4 in 2017. The policy renewed in 2018 and 
payment was made. In 2019 IG04 said it would be renewing the policy again. However, the 
payment didnt go through. IGO4 sent Mr C an email to ask for payment. It then said it sent a 
further email to say Mr Cs policy would be cancelled if payment wasnt taken. It said it sent 
an email to confirm the policy was cancelled in August 2019.
Mr C said he didnt receive all these emails and only received one. He doesnt believe IGO4 
did enough to notify him that his policy would be cancelled. He continued to drive his car and 
was pulled over for driving without insurance. This resulted in him paying a fine and having 
points added to his licence.
Mr C believes that IGO4 is partially responsible for his losses as he feels it shouldve done 
more to alert him that his policy would be cancelled. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He was satisfied that IGO4 sent Mr C emails which made it clear payment 
needed to be made for his policy to continue. So, he didnt think it acted unfairly.
Mr C says that theres no evidence IGO4 requested the payment from his bank and believes 
this is why his policy was cancelled. He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint for similar reasons to the investigator.
IGO4 had a duty to notify Mr C that his payment hadnt gone through and what action he 
needed to take to have his insurance policy continue. Ive looked at what IGO4 did in this 
case. I can see it first emailed Mr C  to the correct email address  on 20 July 2019 saying 
that action needed to be taken as the payment hadnt been processed. It was made clear in 
this email that Mr C had to make a payment still. I understand Mr C says he received this 
email and I think this is reasonable notice to suggest his insurance cover still needed to be 
paid for and that he needed to take action to do this.
As IGO4 didnt receive any payment after this notice it sent an email on 26 July 2019. This 
email explained that payment needed to be made by 2 August 2019 for the cover to 
continue. Otherwise Mr Cs policy would be cancelled. I think IGO4 made this clear in the 
email.
On 5 August 2019, IGO4 sent a further email to say the policy was cancelled. All the emails 
were sent to Mr Cs correct address so I think IGO4 has done enough to show that Mr C 
needed to take action for his cover to continue. As he didnt do this, his policy was cancelled.
Mr C says that IGO4 didnt request the funds from his bank correctly and this is why 
payment didnt go through, resulting in his policy being cancelled. I dont have evidence to 
show when the funds were requested but I dont think thats relevant at this point because 
IGO4 has done enough to tell Mr C that he needed to make a payment for his insurance to 
continue. As Mr C didnt get in touch to make a payment, his insurance was cancelled. I 
dont think IGO4 needed to do anything more. It contacted Mr C explaining that action 
needed to be taken, and it contacted him via his preferred method at the correct email 
address.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman