DRN-2615002
The complaint
Mr J complains Intelligent Pensions Limited didnt take immediate action to de-risk his 
pension savings to prevent the value falling. 
What happened
Mr J had been a long-standing client of Intelligent Pensions Limited (IPL) and had annual 
reviews with its retirement analyst Mr M. Mr Js pension savings were held in a James Hay 
self-invested personal pension plan (SIPP) and were invested in line with his medium 
attitude to risk (3 on a scale of 1-5). 
In early February 2020 as Mr J approached his 65th birthday he had a review meeting with 
Mr M, along with the advisor who had originally introduced Mr J to IPL. At this meeting Mr J 
was told his plan had been performing well and was currently valued at just under £178,900. 
But as he was now approaching retirement he should consider de-risking his portfolio, which 
was held 82% in equities. Mr J was told hed lose the opportunity for further investment 
growth, but it would protect his fund from stock market volatility. At the time Mr J had no 
mortgage or other debts which needed to be repaid.
Mr J recalls the advisor showed him his holdings on his laptop, and Mr J agreed that de-
risking seemed a sensible idea, particularly as he and his wife would soon receive the state 
pension to supplement their income. He understood thered be no more growth, but his fund 
seemed sufficient to support his retirement needs. Mr J was under the impression his 
instructions had been implemented during the meeting, so the value of his investments was 
frozen. IPL sent Mr J its annual review report dated 2 March 2020 which restated his six 
financial objectives, the first of which was The opportunity to achieve further growth in your 
pension funds. The report cautioned that moving to a low risk strategy would reduce the 
potential to meet this objective. So it advised Mr J to think carefully about the priority of his 
objectives before commencing the de-risking process. 
Around this time Mr J received a letter from James Hay which showed his funds remained 
invested and was shocked to see the plan value had fallen around £16,000 to just over 
£162,400 since the meeting. So he complained to IPL that his funds hadnt been frozen. 
Concerned that any further delay would lead to his fund losing more value, Mr J decided to 
contact James Hay to move his funds into cash, and de-instructed IPL as his advisor. 
IPL told Mr J completely de-risking his portfolio was against their advice, they generally 
recommend disinvesting gradually. But if Mr J wished to sell his holdings hed need to 
provide written instructions as per their client agreement. Mr J was told in IPLs experience in 
periods of market volatility theres generally a period of over-selling which is usually 
corrected. And indeed markets had started to recover, so in its view Mr J had only made a 
paper loss, not realising hed cashed in his investments. However to acknowledge the 
distress the situation had caused, IPL offered to reimburse Mr J 75% of their previous years 
advice fee (just over £873).  Mr J didnt accept this offer as it didnt make up for his loss of 
around £31,000. So he complained to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and was satisfied Mr J couldnt have given 
instructions to sell his holdings during the review meeting as the terms and conditions 
require such instructions in writing. He said Mr J was aware Mr M just provided the advice, 
and any changes to his investment strategy were made by IPLs senior analysts who 
compile the report, in line with the process each year since 2013. And Mr J had been asked 
to complete the annual review summary if he wished to proceed with de-risking his 
investments. At the time of the advice IPL had recommended Mr J think about gradually de-
risking but couldnt have foreseen the extent of the market volatility caused by the Covid 
pandemic. Cashing in his investments had been against IPLs advice, so he didnt think it 
needed to do more than the offer it had made to put things right.  As agreement couldnt be 
reached its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr J so let 
me explain why. 
It seems there was a misunderstanding about what had been agreed during the annual 
review in February 2020. Mr Js plan had been invested in line with his medium attitude to 
risk as confirmed at the last annual review. According to the report around 18% was in lower 
risk funds, 58% in medium and 24% in higher risk. This strategy had generated higher than 
expected returns in the past year, however as he was approaching retirement and only a 
year away from being able to claim the state pension, Mr J was told he could afford to de-
risk his investments as he no longer needed such a high level of growth. Mr J accepted this 
recommendation as he no longer wished to gamble with his pension savings. But he 
appears to have been under the impression his verbal agreement was sufficient to 
implement his wishes. When actually the agreement with IPL hed signed in December 2013 
was that any investment instructions must be given in writing or by email. And changes 
would be made once Mr J had considered IPLs report with their recommendations. 
In any case I dont think IPLs advice to de-risk meant converting the whole portfolio to 
cash, which although would have frozen the value, the buying power of cash is eroded by 
inflation. I think the intention was to rebalance Mr Js portfolio which at the time was in 24% 
in higher risk and only 18% in lower risk reducing his exposure to higher risk and towards 
lower risk investments, in a gradual and systematic way. 
The annual review report dated 2 March 2020 sets out Mr Js six objectives in order of 
priority. Number 1 refers to the opportunity for investment growth, 2 refers to preservation of 
capital in the event of premature death, 3 refers to taking tax-free cash without purchasing 
an annuity, 4 refers to flexible annuity rates, 5 relates to flexibility of income and 6 and last is 
Achieving a high degree of security in your pension benefits. Ive also looked at the internal 
checklist Mr M completed capturing the various elements of financial advice discussed 
during the meeting. One of the questions refers to Mr Js financial objectives and asks Has 
Security moved to the top 3? which has been answered as no .I think a yes here would 
be a prompt to the advisor to de-risk the investment strategy and suggests Mr J didnt 
express any particular concern about the security of his investments to the extent he wished 
to move them all into cash effectively freezing the value. 
Mr J said he received a statement from James Hay on 2 March 2020 which showed his fund 
had fallen around £14,000 since the meeting, so he phoned IPL several times worried his 
investments would continue to fall if he delayed selling any longer. As he couldnt get hold of 
IPL he contacted James Hay, set up online access so he could manage his holdings which he then sold crystallising his loss. James Hay required Mr J to give written authority that IPL 
would no longer be managing his fund. So I think the requirement for written instructions is 
consistent.
The timing of when this happened is important as the meeting took place at the very start of 
the Covid pandemic and before lockdown had been imposed. IPLs report was issued in 
early March and markets had started to fall. But they cautioned against taking action at that 
time giving the bold warning:
Due to continuing market volatility caused by the Coronavirus outbreaks around the world 
we recommend the rebalancing of your portfolio be deferred for the time being to avoid 
adverse market timing risks. Once volatility has reduced to more normal levels we will 
confirm our recommendations to you. 
Like many investors around that time, Mr J was worried, even though he had no immediate 
need for the money. So against IPLs advice he decided to sell his entire holding to cash to 
prevent it losing further value. Unfortunately he did so when markets were at their lowest, 
crystallising his loss.. IPL told him in the call on 24 March 2020 a period of uncertainty often 
leads to over-selling which is soon corrected, and indeed at the time he was told the FTSE 
was up 6.5% NASDAQ up 7% and Dow Jones up 9%. I understand Mr J is unhappy at his 
loss, but I cant hold IPL responsible for this as they recommended he wait. 
Mr J mentions that when he phoned IPL Mr M admitted theyd messed up and agreed to put 
things right. But I dont think IPLs mistake was that they should have acted on Mr Js verbal 
instructions during the review meeting and immediately cashed in his portfolio. I think it was 
reasonable for IPL to insist on written instructions as this would have involved selling 
equities valued at over £130,000 and acting against their advice. But I think they should 
have explained what was meant by de-risking and reminded Mr J that in order to commence 
the process hed need to re-order his financial objectives so that security of investments was 
in the top 3, and hed need to submit any instructions in writing to authorise the sale of his 
holdings. They dont appear to have done this and have offered compensation equal to 75% 
of their fee which I think is fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense the offer already made by Intelligent Pensions 
Limited if fair. I leave it to Mr J to accept this if he now wishes to.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman