DRN-2970477
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) gave them incorrect 
information about how making overpayments would affect the length of time itd take to 
repay their four mortgages.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr and Mrs B contacted Nationwide, via their online messaging system, to 
ask how much they were able to overpay on their mortgages, and how much this would 
reduce the mortgage terms by. 
Nationwide replied to Mr and Mrs Bs message, setting out the maximum annual 
overpayment for each mortgage. Within the same message it also explained how much 
these overpayments would reduce the terms of the mortgages. 
Mr and Mrs B responded with some further enquiries and then proceeded to make the 
maximum overpayments allowable under the terms of their mortgages without incurring early 
repayment charges.
Following the overpayments Nationwide recalculated the terms of Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgages. Mr and Mrs B have complained that the recalculated terms were different  and 
significantly longer  than what they were initially told in the message from Nationwide. So 
they made a complaint to Nationwide. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. In its response it explained that Mr and 
Mrs B had misunderstood the information they were given. It said that the reduced terms it 
gave assumed that Mr and Mrs B would continue to make overpayments at the same rate for 
the remainder of the mortgages  and not just once. 
Nationwide also offered to return the overpayments to Mr and Mrs B and return the 
mortgages to the terms they were at before the payments were made. Mr and Mrs B didnt 
accept this resolution, and requested that Nationwide honoured the revised mortgage terms 
that it had set out in its initial message. Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this response, so 
they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld. Whilst 
he understood how the misunderstanding had arisen, he didnt find that Nationwide had 
given Mr and Mrs B any incorrect information. He said that Nationwide hadnt specifically 
pointed out that the overpayments would need to be made every year, but he also noted that 
Nationwide didnt specify that the figures related to a one-off payment either. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know thisll likely come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B but having looked at 
everything, I agree with the outcome the investigator reached. Ill explain why.
The fundamental question Ive thought about here is whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs B 
incorrect or misleading information, which ultimately led to them taking action that they would 
otherwise not have taken. Mr and Mrs B have explained that theyd made several changes to 
their plans as a result of the expected mortgage term reductions, so I can only imagine how 
stressful this has been for them. 
Ive carefully reviewed the online messages between Mr and Mrs B and Nationwide. 
In the initial message Mr and Mrs B ask for the maximum amount they could overpay on 
each of their mortgages, and how much each overpayment would reduce each mortgages 
term by.
Nationwide initially sent an automated response which didnt answer the specific questions 
Mr and Mrs B had asked. So they responded with a message letting Nationwide know, and it 
then sent a personalised response. 
Nationwides response was broken down into each of the individual mortgages. For each 
mortgage Nationwide presented the information in the following way  with specific numbers 
in each:
You have an annual overpayment allowance of £XXXX each mortgage year - the mortgage 
year commences on the 1st January and your remaining balance for this year, up to 31st 
December is £XXXX 
On this account , if you overpaid £XXX each month this would reduce your term to repay the 
mortgage in approx X years and X months.
Mr and Mrs B then make three enquiries; the first related to the wording of the message 
above, the second asking Nationwide to confirm no fees will be payable, and the third asking 
whether the overpayment could be made as a lump sum payment rather than as monthly 
payments. 
Nationwide clarified the wording in the messages (the fact the terms will be reduced TO the 
amount of time quoted, and not BY the amount of time quoted), and that no ERCs would be 
charged if they stayed within their 10% overpayment allowance. It also clarified that the 
overpayment allowance could be used as a lump sum, monthly payments, or ad-hoc 
payments.  
Following these messages there are a number of further exchanges, firstly where Mr and 
Mrs B confirm which overpayments have been made and that theyd like the terms (rather 
than the monthly repayment amounts) reduced on their mortgages.
Mr and Mrs B then contacted Nationwide again to let it know that after checking their 
accounts following the repayments, the terms of the mortgages hadnt reduced by nearly as 
much as theyd expected. Nationwide acknowledged that there had been a 
misunderstanding at this point  although it didnt specifically explain what the 
misunderstanding was, or on whose part it was made. Mrs and Mrs B asked for the situation 
to be escalated to a complaint at that point. In its response to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint Nationwide explained that the term reductions 
quoted in the initial messages between Mr and Mrs B and Nationwide were based on them 
making the quoted overpayments until the mortgages were redeemed  as opposed to 
making them only once. Despite this, it seems that Mr and Mrs B took the message to mean 
the opposite; that the one-off payments would reduce the terms by the amount Nationwide 
quoted. 
Ive thought very carefully about this and I can certainly see this from both sides. The 
messages dont explicitly explain that the overpayments would need to be repeated every 
year for the mortgages to be redeemed by the dates Nationwide quoted. So I do think 
Nationwide couldve been clearer about this  even if Mr and Mrs B didnt specifically ask or 
raise it.
On the other hand, Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs Bs initial enquiry did ask for the 
maximum I can overpay on each of my four mortgages and didnt specify if this would be in 
one year, or over the full term of the mortgage.  And Nationwides response gave the 
overpayment amount annually, but also monthly  with no end date specified. It says If you 
overpaid by £XXX each month this would reduce your term to repay the mortgage in approx. 
XX years and XX months. 
I can understand why these messages were interpreted in the way that Mr and Mrs B did. 
But on the other hand, I havent found that the information within the messages is wrong, or 
misleading. As Ive explained, I do think they couldve been clearer, but thats not to say that 
I think Nationwide has acted unfairly. So Im afraid that whilst I understand how disappointing 
this news will be, I dont require Nationwide to honour the term reductions in the way that Mr 
and Mrs B have requested.
I should add that since this complaint was raised Nationwide has offered to return the 
overpayments that Mr and Mrs B have made and reinstate their mortgages to the original 
terms, to put them in a position theyd have been in if this situation hadnt happened. I know 
it's unlikely that Mr and Mrs B will see this as a satisfactory resolution to the situation, 
because ultimately their mortgages wont be repaid and soon as theyd hoped, but I think this 
is a fair offer for Nationwide to make. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman