DRN-3273207
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the salvage fee Soteria Insurance Limited deducted when it 
settled his claim as a total loss under his car insurance policy. Mr E retained his car as well 
as receiving a total loss settlement for it.
What happened
Mr E made a claim to his insurer, Soteria. This resulted in Soteria avoiding his policy. Mr E 
brought a complaint about the avoidance decision to this service. This service upheld Mr Es 
complaint and Soteria has since considered and dealt with Mr Es claim, having removed the 
avoidance.
In October 2021 Mr E received options from Soteria as to how to settle his claim. It said it 
could pay a total loss settlement with interest and his car would become Soterias property in 
line with the policy. But Mr E said he wanted to keep the car. So Soteria said it would deduct 
a salvage fee from the total loss settlement to reflect the amount it would have received for 
salvaging the car. 
Mr E didnt think this was fair. He said this was the first time he was made aware of Soteria 
deducting a salvage fee. So he raised a complaint. But Soteria didnt uphold it. 
Mr E remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator agreed that 
the policy doesnt set out what Soteria will do if a customer wants to keep their car. But she 
said that Soteria had set out that where it pays a total loss settlement for a car, the car 
becomes their property. And when this happens, Soteria  like most insurers  make 
arrangements to salvage the car and receive a sum for that. 
As Soteria acted outside the terms of the policy in allowing Mr E to keep his car, the 
Investigator didnt think it unreasonable for Soteria to deduct what it would otherwise have 
received as a salvage fee  as it had settled Mr Es claim as a total loss. And she found the 
information it had provided to Mr E showed its calculation of the salvage fee was lower than 
what it would have actually received had it salvaged Mr Es car. 
So the Investigator didnt recommend Mr Es complaint should be upheld. 
Mr E didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. He says there was no mention of 
salvage or mention of Soteria allowing him to keep his car until it came to settle his claim. He 
says he has rebuilt the car at cost to himself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer settles a claim as a total loss, it pays  as in this case  the market value of 
a car as at the date of loss. 
Under the terms of Mr Es policy with Soteria it says it will do the following in the event of a 
total loss claim:
Total loss
Loss of or damage to your car if your car is a total loss.
If your car has been in an incident and is a total loss or been stolen and not
recovered.
We will insure you against loss of or damage to your car caused by: accidental or
malicious damage; fire; or theft or attempted theft.
If your claim is settled by a cash payment, we will pay up to the market value of your
car (as it is at the time of the loss or damage) less the excess shown in your
schedule. If we replace your car or pay you the market value, your car will become
our property.
So under the terms of Mr Es policy with Soteria, if it paid the market value of his car, Mr Es 
car became their property. 
Soterias agreement for Mr E to keep his car meant that it was acting outside of the terms of 
the policy. And so this is why the policy didnt provide details about salvage. 
While we dont think an insurer should deny a customer the right to keep their car, this 
means that the salvage fee an insurer would usually receive for the car no longer exists. And 
we dont it is fair or reasonable for a customer to both receive the full total loss settlement 
and keep their car as this would put them in a position known as betterment. In other words, 
Mr E will have received more than the policy provides cover for. 
Mr Es request to keep his car meant Soteria were acting outside the terms of the policy. So 
while I understand Mr E is upset that a salvage fee wasnt mentioned until the claim was to 
be settled, I dont think Soteria has acted unreasonably in giving Mr E the option to keep his 
car and apply a salvage fee instead. 
Soteria has provided information to show that the amount it typically expected to receive at 
auction for a car similar to Mr Es as a percentage of the market value. However, the actual 
salvage fee Soteria deducted from the total loss settlement equates to less than this. 
So as the salvage fee Soteria applied was below the amount it would expect to have 
received if it had salvaged Mr Es car, I cant safely conclude that it has treated Mr E unfairly. 
I understand Mr E will be disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons Ive explained, I 
think Soteria has reasonably dealt with his total loss settlement claim. This means Im not 
asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman