DRN-3426418
The complaint
Mr S complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided loans to Mr S as follows:
Loans Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentDate 
repaid
1 07/03/19 £700.00 18
months£159.99 19/08/19
2 18/08/19 £1,000.00 18
months£228.56 22/11/19
3 12/03/20 £260.00 18
months£59.42 24/09/21
4 14/01/22 £1,000.00 18
Months£205.56 Still 
active
When Mr S complained to Loans 2 Go it said it didnt uphold his complaint but offered to 
write off 50% off the interest on loan 4 as a gesture of goodwill in order to settle his 
complaint.
Mr S didnt feel this offer went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us.
Mr S told us that Loans 2 Go didnt do proportionate checks before lending and that it could 
have done more before providing these loans. He said this had affected his finances and his 
health. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Loans 2 Go should have 
provided Mr S with the loans and so she upheld the complaint and set out the steps 
Loans 2 Go needed to take to put things right.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It said:
Mr Ss credit report mainly showed that the majority of his credit commitments were 
up to date with payments or settled and he was nowhere near the limit on his credit 
cards
some adverse information was expected given the type of lending Loans 2 Go 
provided 
Mr S had no county court judgements registered
So Loans 2 Go said there was no evidence to suggest he was struggling financially when he 
took out these loans and it had no reason to conduct any further checks. It asked for an 
ombudsman review. So the case comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Ive independently reviewed this 
complaint and reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator.
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
 Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did Loans 2 Go make a fair 
lending decision?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation. 
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
For each loan, Loans 2 Go asked Mr S about his income - which it took steps to verify. It 
also asked him about his expenditure and did some credit checks  which it has sent me. 
Loans 2 Go hasnt explained in detail how it worked out its affordability calculation but I've 
taken into account the information Loans 2 Go gathered from Mr S. I think its fair to say that 
for all the loans, the figures Mr S declared seemed to suggest he had disposable income 
after taking into account his monthly expenditure and it appeared that he should have been 
able to afford the monthly repayments for these loans.
But given what Loans 2 Go understood about Mr Ss financial situation, I think our 
adjudicator was right to be concerned about Loans 2 Go making its lending decisions without 
doing more in-depth checks or taking steps to verify more of the information it was relying on 
 for instance, by going further in its checks into his expenditure. 
When Mr S applied to borrow these loans, he was already paying such a significant 
proportion of his income towards maintaining his existing credit commitments that I think this shouldve prompted Loans 2 Go to carry out more in-depth checks to ensure it had a proper 
understanding of his financial situation. I say this because disproportionate spending on 
credit can be a hallmark of someone who is already over-extended financially  even if 
Loans 2 Go thought its lending looked like it should be affordable on the figures it relied on. 
And these were all expensive loans that Mr S was signing up to repay over 18 months so 
I think Loans 2 Go needed to take further steps to check that he would be able to maintain 
the loan repayments, before agreeing to provide any of these loans. 
Ive thought about what proportionate checks would likely have shown. Mr S has provided 
bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Loans 2 Go was likely to have 
found out. To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should necessarily have done this. But, 
in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable guide as to Mr Ss finances 
at the time. 
And had Loans 2 Go looked in depth at Mr Ss finances before providing loan 1, it would 
likely have seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money. I think it would 
have learned that whilst Mr Ss monthly salary was on average around £1,560, he was 
nevertheless regularly spending very significant amounts on what appear to be gambling 
transactions -our adjudicator mentioned a figure of more than £9,000 during the three 
months or so running up to him taking out this loan  on top of paying more than £5,000 
towards his credit commitments. This meant he had spent significantly more than his net pay 
earned during this time which didnt suggest that the further loan Loans 2 Go provided was 
going to be sustainably affordable. 
Loans 2 Go would have also seen that he was borrowing elsewhere  including using other 
short term/high cost loan providers. 
I think this paints an overall picture of someone whose spending was out of control. It is clear 
that Mr S didnt have sufficient (or any) disposable income out of which to repay the loan 
provided by Loans 2 Go. And had Loans 2 Go done what I consider wouldve been a 
proportionate check before agreeing this loan, it wouldve likely found out this information for 
itself.
So I dont think it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to conclude that it was likely Mr S would be 
able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner  especially keeping in mind also that the 
loan purpose wasnt recorded. And I think its fair to say that Mr S would likely need to pay 
an even bigger portion of his income towards credit  by my reckoning, well over a half. And 
in my opinion, as a responsible lender, seeing the level of income Mr S would be committed 
to paying just to cover his debt, Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that he would likely struggle 
to repay this loan sustainably  especially bearing in mind the 18 month loan term.
In these circumstances, I dont think that it was fair and reasonable for Loans 2 Go to 
conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have been able to make the payments to 
loan 1  or any of the loans that followed - without difficulty or borrowing further. I think that 
its decision to lend in these circumstances was unfair.
And I think thats borne out by the fact that proportionate checks before providing loans 2,3 
and 4 wouldve also revealed that Mr S was still spending beyond his means, becoming 
more dependent on borrowing elsewhere and increasingly falling into arrears with payments 
due on his credit commitments. So I think its fair for me to uphold Mr Ss complaint about all 
four loans.
Ive taken carefully into account everything Loans 2 Go has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability. But, for all the reasons I have explained, Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that Mr S would likely struggle to repay all 
these loans sustainably. So none of the loans should have been provided. 
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Loans 2 Go should pay any additional redress. Mr S 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 
Go acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way. 
So I havent identified any reason for me to award any additional redress. I think it is fair and 
reasonable for Mr S to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, because he had the 
benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed.
Loans 2 Go should do the following:
oadd up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of being given 
the loans. The payments Mr S made should be deducted from this amount
oif this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt 
to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr S keeping in mind its 
obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically if he still needs further 
time to pay 
oremove any adverse information placed on Mr Ss credit file regarding the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman