DRN-2977542
The complaint
Mr B complains Transunion International UK Limited were reporting inaccurate information 
on his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr B has a mortgage with his bank. 
Mr B has a credit card with another financial business, who Ill refer to as A. Part of Mr Bs 
account with A includes an app, which provides credit score information. A get the data for 
the app from Transunion. 
Mr B was unhappy that Transunion were reporting to A (and any other organisations that 
used Transunion) that he doesnt have an active mortgage account  which he said was 
affecting his credit score. 
Mr B complained to Transunion. They responded to his complaint to say that the reason 
Mr Bs mortgage wasnt showing on his credit report is because they didnt have an 
agreement with the bank in question and the bank werent reporting the mortgage account to 
Transunion. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Transunions response. An investigator considered his complaint. 
She said, in summary, she didnt think Transunion had done anything wrong as if they 
werent being provided with the information from Mr Bs bank about his mortgage, she didnt 
think it was unreasonable that they couldnt  include it in their credit report. She also thought 
Transunion werent responsible for how the data was presented in As app. 
Mr B didnt agree. He still felt the information Transunion had given to A was incorrect. He 
told us hed been in touch with his bank and they were now providing information to 
Transunion about his mortgage  and that Transunion were now reporting details of it. But 
he didnt think it shouldve been necessary for him to do this. 
As Mr B didnt accept the investigators view, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Credit Reference Agencies (CRA) report data provided to them by financial businesses. Not 
all financial businesses report information to all the CRAs. 
At the time of Mr Bs original complaint, Transunion said they werent reporting his mortgage 
account on his credit file because they did not have that information. Transunion said his 
bank hadnt provided that information to them, so they couldnt report it. 
Mr B said Transunion were doing more than simply not reporting that he had a mortgage 
account. Because the app he uses with A says You do not have an active mortgage 
account and this was bringing his credit score in As app down.
 
Based on the information Ive seen, while Transunion provides the credit file information 
used in As app, it doesnt choose how this is displayed or interpreted for the purposes of the 
app. And Ive seen nothing to suggest Transunion told A (or any other organisation they 
provide data to) Mr B didnt have an active mortgage, so I dont find I can fairly conclude 
Transunion have done anything wrong. 
I understand that Transunion do now have information about Mr Bs mortgage account. 
Transunion say this is because Mr Bs bank is now providing that information to them. And I 
understand why Mr B feels he shouldnt have had to approach A himself in order for 
Transunion to report his mortgage account. But as Ive mentioned, not all financial 
businesses report information to all the CRAs. If Mr B is unhappy with how the other 
organisations have displayed his information, he might wish to contact them directly. 
I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling that Transunion should always have been reporting 
details of his mortgage account but, since they werent provided with this information by 
Mr Bs bank until recently, I dont think they had made a mistake by not doing so previously.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman