DRN-4439330
The complaint
Mrs P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) increased her home emergency 
policy premium each year because she was a loyal customer. 
The policy was in Mrs Ps name and her son, Mr P, acted on her behalf. For ease of reading, 
Ill simply refer to Mrs P throughout my decision.
What happened
In summary, Mrs P had a Homecare home emergency policy underwritten by BG which 
provided cover for her boiler, central heating, electrics, plumbing, annual service and 
unlimited callouts. Shed had the policy since around 2000, and it renewed each year.
In 2023, Mrs P looked online and found that the policy was available at a reduced cost. Mrs 
P complained to BG because it had never told her other, cheaper policies were available to 
her, and she said it had overcharged her for years. She asked BG to refund the difference 
between her actual payments and the premium that shouldve been available to her.
BG looked into Mrs Ps complaint. It paid her £200 in good faith for service shortfalls, but it 
declined her request for a refund of the difference in premiums. BG explained that because 
of rising prices across all customer accounts, and because Mrs P had used the service it 
provided on a number of occasions and throughout the life of the policy, the premium was 
correct and it hadnt overcharged her.
Mrs P remained unhappy. She said her complaint was not about service shortfalls and she 
wanted BG to issue the refund shed asked for. Mrs P brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. She looked at BGs explanation of the price 
increase each year, the risk factors, and Mrs Ps claim history. Although the premium 
increased, our investigator didnt think the evidence indicated unreasonable increases, or 
that BG had treated Mrs P unfairly.
Mrs P didnt agree. She said there were rules about price walking and BG shouldnt charge 
her more than it would charge new customers. Our investigator explained that the rules 
didnt apply to renewals retrospectively, but Mrs P remained unhappy and asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint for broadly the same reasons 
as our investigator. I wont repeat the detail of the complaint here. Instead, Ill focus on the 
relevant rules, whether BG acted in line with those rules, and whether it treated Mrs P fairly 
in all the circumstances.
For clarity, Id like to reassure Mrs P that my consideration of her complaint included all 
evidence up to and including the emails Mr P sent on 13 December.
Since Mrs P first bought the policy, the rules about information that BG must present to its 
customers at renewal have changed. Mrs Ps claim history also changed. But it should be 
noted that BG isnt required to backdate the requirements as the rules change.
Pricing information
Mrs P said BG didnt tell her about better prices available. If it had, she wouldve taken out a 
different policy. BG said it didnt advise Mrs P which policy to buy, but it did give her the 
appropriate information to make an informed decision.
The rules around information that must be provided at renewal are set out in Insurance: 
Conduct of Business (ICOBS). These rules require BG to tell Mrs P that she:
(i) should check that the level of cover offered by the renewal is
appropriate for their needs; and
(ii) is able, if they so wish, to compare the prices and levels of
cover offered by alternative providers;
If the renewal is the fourth or subsequent renewal, BG must include the following statement:
You have been with us a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover 
you want at a better price if you shop around.
Ive looked at the renewal letters that fall within this obligation and Im satisfied that they 
include the required information. Therefore, I cant fairly conclude that BG failed to notify Mrs 
P that other, possibly better priced policies were available to her.
Price increases
Mrs P said BG didnt make her aware of the price increases. BG provided the renewal 
documents to show that it included the information required.
Looking again at the renewal documents, I note that BG provided the previous years 
premium and the renewal premium for comparison from the date the obligation to do so 
came into effect. Its not for me to comment on the actual price BG charged  rather its for 
me to decide whether it fairly notified Mrs P of the increase, in line with the rules, so that she 
could make an informed decision.
Im satisfied that BG included the relevant information on the policy renewals, so I dont 
uphold this part of Mrs Ps complaint.Price walking
Mrs P complained about price walking  increasing prices just because a customer has been 
loyal. BG provided evidence of its premium calculation to show that the price wasnt based 
on loyalty.
Theres no dispute that Mrs Ps policy premium increased over the years. On some 
occasions the increase was relatively small, whereas at some renewals the increase was 
more significant. Ive looked at the renewal documents available and the calculations BG 
provided, and I havent seen anything to suggest BG increased the premium because of Mrs 
Ps loyalty.
As BG said, the base price for all customers increased, so Mrs P wasn't treated any 
differently to other customers in respect of that increase. However, BG did increase the 
premium based on her risk. In the six years between 2016 and 2023, Mrs P made 21 claims. 
Further, BG also notified Mrs P that because of her boilers age, and the manufacturer was 
no longer making the boiler, parts would be difficult to source. The age of the boiler would 
likely result in more callouts. 
This evidence tells me that BGs calculation of the premium was based on the increased risk 
factors it provided. So, its more likely than not that Mrs P wouldve been able to buy the 
policy for a similar price to that offered to any other customer with a similar claim history. 
Therefore, Im satisfied the evidence supports BGs premium increase.
In addition to this, the evidence tells me that Mrs P knew she had the policy, what it 
provided, and the price. Thats because to make the number of claims she did, she mustve 
seen her policy documents and engaged with the process to some degree. So, I cant fairly 
say BG shouldve taken additional measures to seek engagement from Mrs P. The evidence 
indicates that she was not an inert customer in respect of policy engagement, albeit she 
didnt ask for different products or prices.
I havent seen anything in the evidence to suggest BG unfairly increased the premium, or 
that it treated Mrs P unfairly in the circumstances.
Excess charge
Its not clear which policy Mrs P wouldve wanted instead, but I note she changed to a 
different policy for two weeks and then moved back to her existing policy.
Mrs Ps policy didnt include a claim excess. So, she could make claims under the policy 
safe in the knowledge that thered be no additional charges.
Ive looked at the other policy available to Mrs P, which she chose for a short time before 
returning to her original policy. It included a £60 excess/callout charge. While the premium 
may have been a better price, with the same claim history Mrs P wouldve incurred additional 
costs had she moved to that policy. 
For example, the 2016/17 renewal price was a little under £550. The 2017/18 renewal was 
around £80 more. During 2016 and 2017, Mrs P claimed under the policy on nine separate 
occasions. If shed been on a policy with lower premiums and a £60 callout charge, shed 
have incurred £540 in additional costs over just two years. That amounts to more than the 
cumulative premium increase from 2014 to 2023.
This tells me that while Mrs P may have been able to move to a better priced policy in 
respect of the premium, it wouldnt have been a better value product. Thats because the policy may not have given Mrs P the overall service she needed at a better price. 
Overall, the evidence suggests that Mrs P paid an increased premium each year based on 
the increased level of risk, and that BG provided the correct information at each renewal to 
help her make an informed decision. Im satisfied that BG met its obligations under the 
relevant rules, and theres nothing in the evidence to indicate that BG increased the price 
because Mrs P was a loyal customer. Therefore, I see no reason to ask BG to refund any of 
the premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman