DRN-1672903
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with the way Studio Retail Limited (Studio) have handled a refund for a 
faulty item.
What happened
Ms C tells us that in September 2019 she contacted Studio to advise them that an item shed 
purchased through their on-line catalogue was faulty. And she advised that as there were no 
other similar items available she wanted a refund. She asked that the refund be sent by 
cheque rather than credited to her Studio account so she would have money available to buy 
a replacement item from a retailer of her choice. And the Studio agent agreed to this.
The faulty item was returned to Studio and they made a refund of £379.26 to a card used to 
make a recent payment on her account rather than sending a cheque. Ms C complained to 
Studio saying that shed requested a cheque rather than a credit, and that the credit had 
been made to a card in her recently deceased mothers name. Studio told Ms C that theyd 
credited the card used to make the last payment on her account which is their standard 
process. And were unable to identify any failings with the provision of their services so didnt 
uphold her complaint.
Ms C was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
feel Studio had acted fairly. He acknowledged that Studio had issued a refund but felt they 
should have made the payment by cheque as agreed with Ms C rather than crediting a card 
in the name of Ms Cs deceased mother. He said hed looked at the terms and conditions on 
the Studio website and there was no mention of refunds having to be issued to the card last 
used to make a payment. He also contacted Ms Cs mothers card provider who confirmed 
Ms C did not have access to this account. His view was that Studio should send Ms C a 
cheque for £379.26 and £100 for the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused.
Studio disagreed with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators view and largely for the same reasons.
In their final response letter Studio say:-
Unfortunately, you did not request at the time that the refund be sent by cheque and unless 
this is requested, we send refunds to the bank card used to make the payment Because the 
refund has already been issued, we are unable to re-send this as a cheque
Having listened to the call between Ms C and the Studios call handler I find that not only did 
Ms C request the refund be made by cheque but that the call handler agreed to do this on 
more than one occasion during the call. So Im not satisfied that Studio have acted fairly.
In response to our investigators view Studio have provided an extract from their returns 
policy which states we will make the credit using the same means of payment as you used 
for the initial transaction, unless we have expressly agreed otherwise. 
Im satisfied that Studio did expressly agree to send Ms C a cheque. And whilst Ms Cs 
mother did make a payment to help reduce Ms Cs Studio account balance shortly before 
she passed away, the last card used to transact on the account was in Ms Cs name. Simply 
put Studio have not done what they said they would do and I cannot see that Ms C has 
received a refund for the goods she returned. 
Im also satisfied Studios actions have caused Ms C additional distress during an already 
very difficult time for her. So Im directing Studio to pay her £100 in compensation for its 
mistake.
My final decision
Studio Retail Limited should send Ms C a cheque for the cost of the goods returned plus 
£100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Studio Retail Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Ms C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman