DRN-2703606
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited wont refund an increase 
of their premium for their motor insurance policy after a claim was closed as non-fault. They 
wants a refund of £200. Mrs B is a named driver on Mr Bs policy. 
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B had been customers of Admiral for some years when they made a claim on 
their policy. They were firstly told that if the claim was closed as non-fault they would receive 
a refund of their premium which had increased at renewal. This was corrected at the renewal 
call and Admiral said no refund would be given. But it allowed Mr Bs No Claims Bonus 
(NCB) as it thought the claim would be closed as non-fault. Mr B thought this was unfair. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had made an error when it told Mr B that he would receive a premium refund. But he thought 
it had corrected this error, and this hadnt caused Mr B any loss. He thought it was Admirals 
business decision to rate on all claims, and so he couldnt say this was wrong. He thought 
Mr B could have renewed elsewhere if he was unhappy with Admirals quote at renewal.
Mr B replied asking for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B and Mrs B feel frustrated by the increase in their premium 
following their non-fault claim. They explained that they hadnt claimed for 20 years and were 
loyal customers of Admiral. 
Admirals decision to rate on all claims, regardless of fault, is its commercial decision. This 
doesnt break any relevant regulations and its in keeping with standard industry practice. 
And I cant see that Admiral has treated Mr B and Mrs B differently to any of its other 
customers. And so, as this isnt something that I would normally interfere with as it is a 
legitimate exercise of its commercial judgement, I dont require Admiral to refund any 
premium to Mr B. 
Mr B said he was told by Admiral before renewal that he would get a refund of premium if the 
open claim was closed as non-fault. But in the renewal call, he was told that no refund would 
be made even if the claim was closed as non-fault as his allowed NCB increase had already 
been taken into consideration.
So I think Admirals agent in the first call made an error. When a business makes a mistake, 
as Admiral accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far 
as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
I think Admiral later gave Mr B the correct information about the premium increase. I think 
the error didnt cause Mr B any losses as he was told the correct information before he 
renewed and so he could have shopped around for alternative cover if he so wished. 
And so I think Admiral restored Mr Bs position by giving him the correct information and this 
error didnt have any impact on Mr B. So I dont require Admiral to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman