DRN-1868946
The complaint
Mr S is complaining about the way TSB Bank plc has handled a claim he made when he 
raised a dispute about a transaction he made on his TSB credit card. He raised the claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In October 2018 Mr S entered into a contract with a company  who I shall call A  to supply 
a games console. Mr S paid for the console on his TSB credit card. The console was due to 
be delivered around March 2019. In March 2019 A sent Mr S the console using an 
international courier, but the courier didnt deliver it. It later transpired the courier had 
delivered it to the wrong address. 
Mr S then raised a dispute with A who contacted the courier to try and resolve the matter. 
But it was unable to do so. It said the terms of the contract Mr S agreed to said it wasnt 
liable for the actions of the courier company and it said Mr S would need to raise his dispute 
with the courier directly. But it offered to refund 50% of the contract price as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr S didnt agree he needed to raise this with the courier as he said it was As 
responsibility to deliver the goods, but it hadnt done so. So he said A had breached the 
terms of its contract with him.
A maintained it wasnt liable for the actions of the supplier, so Mr S contacted TSB to dispute 
the transaction. TSB considered the claim under the chargeback rules, but it said he had 
brought the claim too late. However, it asked him to provide the original invoice and copies 
of the correspondence hed had with A.
Mr S provided TSB with some of the email correspondence hed had with A and said he was 
making a S75 claim. TSB considered the email correspondence but said it didnt think there 
had been a breach of contract. So it didnt uphold the claim. Mr S didnt agree and referred 
his claim to this service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She said the invoice A provided at the start set out 
that Mr S paid A a fee to ship the console. So she thought the supply and delivery formed 
part of the contract Mr S had with A. And she said that, as Mr S hadnt received the goods, 
she thought A had breached the terms of the contract. So she thought TSB should 
reconstruct Mr Ss credit card as though the transaction hadn't been made to A, less any 
refund he had already been given. She said that, if this led to a credit balance, TSB should 
pay Mr S 8% simple interest for any time he was out of pocket.
TSB didnt agree with the investigator. It said it had asked Mr S to provide a copy of the 
invoice when it first asked for the information, but he didnt provide it. It said A had said the 
terms and conditions of the contract said it wasnt responsible for the delivery of the product. 
And it said Mr S had never disputed the terms of the contract specified this. As it didnt agree 
with the investigator, it asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for the same reasons as the investigator.
Mr S paid for the games console  provided by A  on his TSB credit card. S75 sets out that 
in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, TSB is jointly liable for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
Theres no dispute Mr S didnt receive the games console he paid for and it seems to be 
accepted that this is because the courier company delivered it to another address. The issue 
for me to decide is whether I think A is responsible for this or not. I think it is and Ill now 
explain why.
TSB says A has explained the terms of the contract say its not liable for the actions of the 
courier. And it said it was Mr Ss choice which courier to use. But the issue here is whether I 
think A has fulfilled its responsibilities under the terms of the contract.
In thinking about this, Im not persuaded weve been given a copy of the actual terms and 
conditions that applied to the contract. It seems the terms and conditions provided are the 
current terms as opposed to the ones relevant at the inception of the contract. So I dont 
think theres been sufficient evidence provided to support the assertion that the contract 
excludes liability for the actions of the courier.
But, even if I accept the terms of the contract do look to exclude liability of the courier, I need 
to think about whether A can fairly rely upon this. A contracted with Mr S to supply him with a 
games console, but Mr S didnt receive it. So I dont think A has fulfilled its contractual 
responsibilities. As I said, A says it cant be held responsible for the actions of the courier 
and its highlighted the contract specifically excluded liability for actions of the supplier. But 
Ive thought about what I think a court would likely consider in the application of this 
exclusion  in particular whether it creates an unfair situation for Mr S.
I think its important to note the contract with the courier was between the courier and A  i.e. 
I understand Mr S wasnt a party to the contract. A charged Mr S around £50 to facilitate the 
delivery. A says Mr S chose which courier to use, so it says it cant be held responsible for 
his decision. But I understand A gave Mr S a select number of delivery options to choose 
from as opposed to him arranging for the courier himself. So I think the courier was acting as 
an agent of A, rather than for Mr S, and Mr S was just choosing which agent of As to use.
I dont think its fair that A contracted out of its responsibilities to ensure Mr S received the 
goods hed paid for. And I think its likely a court would consider that, to apply the exclusion 
clause in its strict application, could result in an unfair situation for Mr S. Ive looked at the 
exclusion clause in the contract weve been given and it excludes liability for a significant 
number of events. It does seem to me that the term has a potential to create a significant 
imbalance between Mr S and A. So I dont think the term can be fairly relied upon to exclude 
liability for the actions of the courier in this case. 
Ultimately, A hasnt carried out its contracted responsibility in providing the goods Mr S has 
paid for. So I think it has breached the terms of the contract. As I set out above, TSB is 
jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by A. So I think it needs to 
compensate Mr S for the breach of contract.
So I think TSB should reconstruct Mr Ss credit card account as if the transaction hadnt 
taken place  taking into account any refund he may have already received. If, after doing so, this shows Mr S is out of pocket TSB should refund any amount hes been out of pocket 
by plus 8% simple interest per year from the date he was out of pocket until he gets it back.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require TSB Bank plc to compensate Mr S in line with my instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman