DRN-1952325
The complaint
This complaint is about two regular mortgage premium payment protection insurance 
(MMPPI) policies. Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold 
him both policies.
Each policy was taken out to go with mortgage borrowing. Mr J says he wasnt given a 
choice about taking the first policy. For the second policy, Mr J says he was unaware 
that MPPI had been added to the second lot of borrowing he arranged. He also says 
both policies werent explained to him.
What happened
In around June 2001 Mr J took out a mortgage payment protection insurance (MMPPI) 
policy which protected his mortgage repayments in the event of him becoming unable to 
work or losing his job. The cost of this policy was around £29 per month and could have 
paid £490 per month in the event of a successful claim.
Mr J kept this cover until November 2001 when he took out further borrowing for home 
improvements and another MPPI policy to cover this. It cost around £28 per month and 
could have paid out £494 per month in the event of a successful claim. 
Both policies were a type of mortgage insurance package policy known as Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP). They included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. Mr 
J did not take the other types of insurance cover that was offered with these policies. 
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld but Mr J disagreed 
and its been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint.
Ive looked at what Mr J has told us about the sale which is of course helpful. But as with 
any complaint Ive also borne in mind the possibility that inevitably, any recollection will 
be affected by the passage of time.
Its also fair to say that a good deal of the documentation from both sales that ideally I 
would have liked to see is no longer available. On the other hand, that isnt at all unusual 
for cases like this, which come to us many years after the MPPI was sold, especially 
given that businesses arent required to hold onto sale paperwork indefinitely.
This all means that my decision is based on the balance of probabilities  i.e. whats 
more likely to have happened, taking into account what Ive seen and what Ive been told. 
Ive also used what I know about BoSs procedures at the time and how it sold these 
types of policy. 
Mr J told us he bought both policies in meetings. And BoS has confirmed that it made a 
recommendation that Mr J take out the cover in both instances. That means BoS needed 
to ensure the policies were suitable for him. BoS also needed to provide enough clear 
information so Mr J could make an informed choice as to whether he should buy each 
policy. 
For the first sale, Ive seen that on his mortgage application form Mr J signed and dated 
the section of the form dealing with MPPI to show that he was interested, alongside 
wording saying Yes, I would like to take advantage of the TMPP. Ive also seen 
evidence from BoSs computer system showing that the policy was discussed and Mr J 
was asked questions to ensure he was eligible and wouldnt have been affected by any of 
the main exclusions. 
For the second sale, BoS hasnt been able to give us a copy of Mr Js MPPI mortgage 
application. But once again Ive seen evidence taken from BoSs computer system to 
show that the policy was discussed with Mr J and to see if he was eligible and not 
likely to be affected by any of the main policy exclusions. 
Taken together, this information and evidence is enough for me to me think its likely that Mr 
J  made the decision to go ahead and take out each of these policies and that on each 
occasion there was some level of discussion with the BoS representative. Ive also seen 
that Mr J did not take the other insurance products that were available to be added to the 
MPPI. This further suggests that Mr J had some involvement in the decision-making 
process at the time.  
In addition, its likely that Mr J would have had to authorise the monthly premiums to be 
drawn from a bank account by way of a direct debit or similar method. So I think it follows 
this that Mr J was most likely given a choice about whether to take out MPPI in each sale.
I know that Mr J feels strongly that he was put under pressure to take the policy. But 
pressure is very difficult to prove. Obviously, I cant know what was said at the time. But 
again, thinking about the sales process used by BoS, I think its unlikely he was put under 
sustained pressure in order to make him take out each of these policies. I dont doubt that Mr 
J has given us his best recollection of what happened each time he agreed to take a policy, 
but unfortunately Im not able to rely solely on this to make a finding that each policy was 
sold under pressure.
Next, Ive looked at the question of whether the policies were suitable for Mr J. As Ive 
already said, it looks like Mr J had confirmed he was eligible for the cover. And I havent 
seen anything   else to suggest he would have been affected by any of the main policy 
exclusions. In relation to pre-existing medical conditions  - an issue Mr J has raised in 
particular - I havent seen an exclusion that would be likely to make it harder for Mr J to 
make a successful claim had he needed to.  
Ive also not seen anything to suggest that the monthly cost of the cover was unaffordable 
for Mr J. I also think the monthly premiums - given the cover offered by each policy - were 
comparable with similar products marketed at around the time they were sold.
Mr J told us that he had some limited employer if he was unable to work. This doesnt 
necessarily mean the policies werent of use to him. Each of these policies would have paid out for up to 24 months in the event of a successful claim. And it would mean that 
Mr J wouldnt have to rely on other sources of income. And while hes told us that his 
parents would have been in a position to help him if necessary, I have to  keep in mind 
that individual circumstances can easily change.  
This borrowing would have been a significant financial commitment over an extended 
period. Policies like this are designed to offer protection in financially difficult times 
and they would have provided Mr J with cover over and above any other protection he 
had elsewhere. So, given this, I think the concept of protecting himself with cover like 
this could be viewed as a worthwhile and sensible precaution.
I also think its likely that for each sale Mr J would have been given a policy document 
which explained details of the cover and how to claim. And even if I cant be sure that 
everything happened in the way it should have done, from what Ive seen Mr J agreed to 
take out these policies and each of them was suitable for his situation. 
Id also like to reassure Mr Js that Ive taken into account his detailed response to our 
adjudicators findings. Whilst I realise how frustrating it must be to reach the end of 
our process without getting the decision outcome he was hoping for, I am simply 
unable to make a finding that either of these polices were mis-sold. I am sorry to have 
to disappoint Mr J on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. And I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman