DRN-4423858
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank did not provide 
him details of his promotional offer, and they did not link his loyalty membership to his new 
credit card.
Mr C is represented by his accountant in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mr C himself.
What happened
Mr C applied for a Tesco Bank credit card, but he says when he received the card there was 
no details of his promotional interest offer, so he needed to ring Tesco Bank to get the 
information. He said he added a loyalty membership during the credit card application 
process, but when he received his credit card, a different number was on the back of it. Mr C 
says he verified this on two occasions with the company who administer the loyalty 
membership, who told Mr C that the numbers were not linked to his account. Mr C made a 
complaint to Tesco Bank.
Tesco Bank did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. They said that the loyalty membership he 
provided on his application was linked to his card. They said he would be able to download 
the terms and conditions when he signed his credit agreement. They said that they attached 
his credit agreement to their final response letter. Mr C brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said that he noted that the application 
form showed the promotional offer, along with the credit limit and balance transfer limit, so 
he felt Mr C wouldve been aware of what offer he was receiving. He said that while he 
understood Mr Cs desire to have the terms and conditions posted out, the application form 
makes it clear these can be downloaded, so Tesco Bank didnt make an error here.
Our investigator said that where an applicant provides a Tesco loyalty card number on a 
credit card application, it will be linked to the credit card if the profiles match. In this case, Mr 
Cs loyalty membership number quoted on the application was held jointly with another party, 
and so it could not be matched. This was because the credit card was held in Mr Cs sole 
name. As a result, the credit card was linked to a different loyalty number. He said that Mr C 
had not suffered a loss as there had been no loyalty points which accumulated. Mr C asked 
for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Cs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.  
I must make Mr C aware that I can only look into the actions of Tesco Bank here, and not 
any other company as part of their wider group, such as the actions of their loyalty scheme 
company. This is because our jurisdiction only covers the actions of Tesco Bank and does 
not extend to their loyalty scheme company.
Im aware that Mr C has made other complaints about Tesco Bank. But I will only be able to 
focus on the merits of the complaint points set out in the previous section of this decision, as 
any other complaints he brings to us about Tesco Bank will be dealt with separately.
I asked Tesco Bank for further information, including the calls that Mr C has mentioned. 
Tesco Bank has not responded to my requests. So based on our rules, which are set out in 
the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook and are known as DISP, then under DISP 
3.5.14R I will proceed with consideration of Mr Cs complaint.
Ive considered what Mr C has said about not knowing about his promotional offer as he 
wasnt sent a copy of the credit agreement. But Id like to explain to Mr C that it is not within 
this services remit to tell a business what format (eg email/post/downloadable) they should 
make the credit agreement available to their customer. It would be the role of the regulator  
the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Tesco Bank to make 
changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. But I can see that Tesco Bank did 
inform Mr C that he could download his personalised documents at the end of the 
application. So although this may not have been in the format that Mr C preferred, Tesco 
Bank did make this information available to Mr C. So I cant say they did anything wrong on 
this point. 
Ive considered what Mr C has said about the information he was told about his loyalty 
membership being linked to the Tesco Bank credit card. When it comes to complaints where 
its one word against another, I have to consider the evidence available to me. I then have to 
weigh the evidence against the balance of probabilities, that is, whats more likely to have 
happened in the circumstances.
Im persuaded that Mr C was given incorrect information about his loyalty membership being 
linked to his credit card. I say this because Ive seen the membership number that Mr C has 
included with his credit card application. This is different to the loyalty membership card 
number which was actually linked to his account when it was opened. 
Tesco Bank had explained to our investigator that this was because Mr Cs loyalty 
membership was on a joint basis, while the credit card application was on a sole basis, so 
the cards wouldnt have been able to be merged at the application stage, in order to prevent 
incorrect merges and points going to incorrect customers. 
While I understand Tesco Banks explanation of this and the reasons for this. I have not 
been provided any evidence of where this was explained to Mr C. So it would be reasonable 
for him to expect the loyalty membership number he entered as part of his application, to be 
linked to his new credit card, once his application was accepted, especially as he was a 
party on the existing loyalty card number he entered. It would not be proportionate for Mr C 
to be expected to memorise this number or to compare this to the number on the back of the 
credit card to see if these details matched. So it would have been distressing for Mr C to find 
out that the numbers didnt match.
While I havent heard the conversations with Tesco Bank on the phone that Mr C says he 
had with them, I am persuaded that Mr C was told incorrect information by Tesco Bank about the correct loyalty membership number being linked to his Tesco Bank credit card. I 
say this because the incorrect information was included in Tesco Banks final response letter 
to Mr C when it said that the loyalty membership information that he entered on the 
application was linked to his card. But the membership number he entered in the application 
was a completely different number to the membership linked to his card upon opening. 
So not only would this information be distressing for Mr C, but he was also inconvenienced 
to ring the separate company who administrates the loyalty scheme, who Mr C says 
confirmed to him that the correct membership number was not linked to his Tesco credit 
card. Mr C rung them at least twice in relation to the information given by Tesco Bank over 
the phone and from the letter. 
While it appears that Mr C has not suffered a financial loss as a result of points not being 
allocated to the loyalty card he wanted his credit card to be linked to (as Tesco Bank has 
said he did not complete any transactions which attracted any loyalty points), I am 
persuaded that Tesco Bank gave Mr C wrong information which would have been 
distressing and contradictory to the information he was told by the loyalty scheme 
department. And the information in their final response was incorrect, as the evidence shows 
a different number being linked.
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Im persuaded that £75 
would be fair for what happened here. Im persuaded that this recognises the impact of the 
incorrect information that Tesco Bank gave Mr C, as he was inconvenienced to have to ring 
up the loyalty scheme company at least twice to see if the information Tesco Bank gave him 
was correct  and they confirmed  as the evidence Ive seen also suggests  that Tesco 
Bank did give Mr C incorrect information. So I intend to ask Tesco Bank to put things right for 
Mr C.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr C accepted the provisional decision. Tesco Bank sent me the information that I 
had previously requested including some of the telephone calls. 
Tesco Bank did not accept the provisional decision. They made a number of points. In 
summary, they said that there was no spending on his card, so there were no points going 
missing, so they said Mr C was ringing them and the loyalty scheme provider to chase an 
issue which had no impact on him. Tesco Bank said in my provisional decision I said that 
"So it would have been distressing for Mr C to find out that the numbers didn't match." But 
they questioned why this would be of any concern to Mr C if he had not spent on the card.
Tesco Bank said that on Mr Cs call on 6 February, he stated there was a lot of friction with 
the agent he had spoken to, but the call recording shows there were no issues with the 
service on the call. They said Mr C had raised several complaints which had been referred to 
our service, and they felt the compensation I intended to award was excessive. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the telephone calls that Tesco Bank have provided me. On the first call on 
6 February 2023, this relates to the security. Tesco Bank have redacted a large part of the 
call, so Im unable to hear how this ended, but before the call was redacted, the call handler 
and Mr C were discussing his promotional offer available and the call handler had to go 
through enhanced security to get this information (which will be why Tesco Bank have 
redacted this), however, there was no end to the call which I could hear. But from what I heard, the call handler did try and assist Mr C and was pleasant and courteous, and I didnt 
detect any friction. 
Mr C rings Tesco Bank back later that day to make a complaint. He says that after his 
previous call, he noticed that there was a mismatch on the loyalty number with his Tesco 
Bank credit card, so he rang the scheme provider, and they confirmed that the loyalty cards 
were not linked, and they said they were completely separate accounts. 
Ive also listened to a call when a complaint handler rings back Mr C on 16 February 2023. 
The complaint handler says that the loyalty membership number that you provided us with, 
erm on application, is the one linked to your credit card. And she says its definitely linked 
on our systems.
Tesco Bank have said that a loyalty membership number attached to a credit card can only
be in the credit card owner's name and not in anyone else's name. If that customer holds a 
loyalty profile where the loyalty profile is held jointly, as long as the credit card owner 
provides their own existing loyalty number at the application stage, then the loyalty card can 
still be merged into that profile. Tesco Bank said that loyalty profiles are set up in a way that 
even if the loyalty profile is joint, only the credit card owner would be able to see points 
collected on that credit card account as they are solely responsible for that account. 
Tesco Bank said if a customer doesn't link cards at the application stage or if this fails due to 
any of the reasons, then this means a separate loyalty profile entirely will be set up for the 
customer with the new card in it. They said if this happened Mr C would still be able to 
contact the loyalty company directly at any point and ask for any separate profiles to all be
merged into one so all loyalty cards held show under just one profile. As the loyalty scheme 
is not administered by Tesco Bank, then Tesco Bank were not able to send me the call 
recordings of these calls that Mr C had with them. As the loyalty company is not covered 
under our jurisdiction, then Im unable to ask them for these calls. 
But I do think that Tesco Bank have not been consistent in their explanation of how the 
loyalty number Mr C entered in his application form would be linked to the new credit card. In 
my provisional decision I said Tesco Bank had explained to our investigator that this was 
because Mr Cs loyalty membership was on a joint basis, while the credit card application 
was on a sole basis, so the cards wouldnt have been able to be merged at the application 
stage, in order to prevent incorrect merges and points going to incorrect customers. 
In my provisional decision I also said I am persuaded that Mr C was told incorrect 
information by Tesco Bank about the correct loyalty membership number being linked to his 
Tesco Bank credit card. I say this because the incorrect information was included in Tesco 
Banks final response letter to Mr C when it said that the loyalty membership information that 
he entered on the application was linked to his card. But the membership number he entered 
in the application was a completely different number to the membership linked to his card 
upon opening. In response to the questions I asked Tesco Bank prior to issuing my 
provisional decision, they have now responded to say they cannot explain why the complaint 
handler confirmed the loyalty number was linked. 
The complaint handler said if Mr C had any queries about this then he could ring the loyalty 
provider about this. So Mr C did this. And hes told us theyve said they werent linked. Im 
persuaded by Mr Cs testimony, as if they had told him the loyalty cards were linked then 
there would be no reason for him to ring Tesco Bank back to say hed been provided 
incorrect information and to bring his complaint to us about it. And as they are the scheme 
administrator, they should be better placed than Tesco Bank to tell Mr C what cards were 
linked. The last call I listened to was also made on 16 February 2023. This was a continuation of the 
previous call as Mr C was trying to talk to the complaint handler, but she wasnt responding 
and the call had been disconnected, so it appears the complaint handler rang him back. She 
again says she can definitely guarantee that it is correct on their end. But Tesco Bank have 
been unable to provide us evidence whether the cards were linked or not. They are still 
unable to categorically tell me if the cards were linked unless Mr C made a purchase which 
attracted the loyalty points.
Ive considered what Tesco Bank have said about their not being a financial impact on Mr C. 
I did not state that there was a financial impact in my provisional decision. If there had of 
been a financial impact on him then I would have awarded compensation for this also. But 
the £75 is for the distress and inconvenience for the reasons Ive already documented in my 
provisional decision. The reason why it was important to Mr C to verify if his cards were 
linked was so he could ensure he was earning points with the correct linked card. I dont find 
this an unusual thing to do as if the cards werent linked (as the loyalty provider had told 
him), then if Mr C had started spending on the card only to find it not linked, then he would 
have had further distress and inconvenience to rectify this, and therefore he wanted to know 
before he started spending on the card whether the membership number he entered onto his 
application form was linked as he would expect it would be, therefore it would have been 
distressing for Mr C to find out that the numbers didn't match even if he hadnt spent 
anything on the card at this point.
But when Mr C had spoken to the loyalty scheme provider again, then they also told him that 
the loyalty numbers werent linked. As I said in my provisional decision So Ive considered 
what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Im persuaded that £75 would be fair for 
what happened here. Im persuaded that this recognises the impact of the incorrect 
information that Tesco Bank gave Mr C, as he was inconvenienced to have to ring up the 
loyalty scheme company at least twice to see if the information Tesco Bank gave him was 
correct  and they confirmed  as the evidence Ive seen also suggests  that Tesco Bank 
did give Mr C incorrect information. So Im not persuaded that the compensation is 
excessive as a small monetary amount is proportionate in these circumstances and is in line 
with our published awards for compensation.
Although Tesco Bank have said Mr C has made several complaints and have brought them 
to our service, I must make Tesco Bank aware that we would investigate each complaint 
separately, so the outcome of any other complaint that Mr C wouldve brought to our service 
has no bearing on this complaint. In summary, the information which Tesco Bank provided 
me has not persuaded me to change the outcome of the provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank to pay Mr C £75 for distress and 
inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should 
pay Mr C £75 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Gregory SloanesOmbudsman