DRN-3796696
The complaint
The estate of Mr R has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
declined to meet a claim under a level term assurance policy.
Mrs R represents the estate.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties. In summary L&G declined to 
pay a claim as it said that the policy had lapsed. It said it sent letters to Mr R  two having 
been advised that the direct debit had been cancelled and one after the policy had lapsed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs R appealed on behalf 
of the estate. She said she had no recollection of receiving the letters but wouldnt have 
ignored them. She questioned why the direct debit was attempted to be taken in April when 
the annual premium wasnt due until May.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to express my sincere condolences to Mrs R, I do understand this has been a 
very traumatic time for her following the passing of Mr R. 
I recognise that my decision will come as very disappointing news to Mrs R and the estate of 
Mr R, as I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why that is. I should say if theres 
something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I find is the right 
outcome. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
L&G didnt attempt to take payment in April  rather having been advised that the 
direct debit had been cancelled it wrote to Mr R on 12 April 2021 prior to the annual 
premium was due to provide time for payment to be arranged. The letter gave the 
option to discuss options open to Mr R. It also said if your direct debit has been 
cancelled in error, please speak to your bank as soon as possible asking them to 
restart it. I find that the letter was clear and a reasonable response.
When no action was taken L&G wrote again to Mr R on 8 July 2021. This letter 
advised Although we have cancelled your life insurance and we are no longer 
providing you with valuable protection, if you contact us within the next 14 days we 
can review the options to restart your life insurance immediately giving you the 
financial security when you need it. Again the letter gave contact details should Mr R 
have wished to discuss his options. As no response was received the policy lapsed. I 
understand that Mrs R feels that the letters should have been sent by recorded 
delivery or that L&G should have called, but it wasnt obliged to do either. I accept 
that Mrs R said that she wouldnt have ignored the letters, but Im satisfied that they 
were sent and no action was taken. It follows I dont find that L&G were at fault.
Mrs R said to this service that she thinks there was some confusion about the 
policies they had. I accept that Mr R had a lot going on, had changed bank accounts 
and even that Mr R may not have intended to cancel the policy in April 2021. 
However as the premium wasnt paid the policy lapsed. The policy terms set out: 
What happens if you dont pay your premiums? 
We are entitled to cancel this policy if any premiums are not paid within 30 days of 
their due date.
If we cancel this policy, the cover will end and no further premiums will be payable.
We will not refund any premiums already paid.
Because it wasnt in force when the claim was made I dont find that L&G did 
anything wrong by declining the claim.
Mrs R says on behalf of the estate that if a terminal illness claim had been admitted, 
premiums wouldnt have been payable. But as the policy had lapsed by the time of 
diagnosis, I cant say that L&G are bound to pay a claim under the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman