DRN-2579406
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA wouldnt refund him the cost of an
item which Mr M purchased from an online vendor under their Buyer Protection scheme.
Mr M is unhappy that he has to return the item to the seller, who is based in China, at his
own expense.
What happened
On 20 March 2020, Mr M bought an item from a vendor on a retail website. When the item
arrived it was faulty, and the instructions were in Chinese and not in English.
Mr M wasnt able to reach an acceptable resolution with the seller and so, because the
purchase had been made using his PayPal account, Mr M approached PayPal and asked
them to arrange for a reimbursement of the cost of the item under their Buyer Protection
scheme.
PayPal agreed that Mr Ms transaction qualified for Buyer Protection. However, the terms of
that scheme include that the customer must return the item to the seller, at the customers
own expense, in order to qualify for reimbursement. Because the seller was in China, PayPal
told Mr M that he would have to show evidence that he returned the item to China before
PayPal would be able to reimburse him under the Buyer Protection scheme.
Mr M didnt think that this was fair for two reasons. Firstly, the machine had been dispatched
from a UK address so Mr M felt that he should be asked to return the item to that UK
address and not incur the significant cost of returning the item to China. Secondly, given that
the item was faulty and didnt work as expected Mr M didnt think that he should be
responsible for the cost of returning the item at all.
So, Mr M raised a complaint with PayPal about this. PayPal looked into the matter, but they
explained that while the dispatch address of the item was listed as being in the UK, it was
common for sellers who are located abroad to use a UK address as what is known as a
drop shipping service for dispatching items sent from abroad within the UK, and that in this
instance the seller was based in China.
PayPal also said that the terms of the Buyer Protection scheme were clear on this point 
that in order to qualify for a reimbursement a customer would have to return the item to the
seller  which meant in this case that Mr M would have to return the item to China. And so
they didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M wasnt happy with PayPals response and so he referred his complaint to our service.
One of investigators looked into this case. They didnt feel that it was fair that Mr M should
have to return the item to China at significant cost, and so they upheld Mr Ms complaint and
said that Mr M should still return the item to China, and that PayPal should reimburse Mr M
as agreed, but that the cost of returning the item to china should be met by PayPal and not
Mr M.
PayPal didnt formally agree with the view put forward by our investigator and so the matter
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 January 2021 as follows:
I can understand Mr Ms frustration at being required by PayPal to return the item to 
the sellers address in China in order to obtain a reimbursement for the faulty item, 
especially as PayPal have agreed that his purchase does fall within the remit of their 
Buyer Protection scheme.
However, in this instance, while I accept that the dispatch address for the item was 
from a UK address, ultimately here PayPal is correct to say that the seller is based in 
China. The online sales advert for the item has been taken down by the seller and so 
I cant see exactly what was said in full here. It does seem likely to me that this would 
have been mentioned even if thats not what Mr M remembered. But the key thing 
here is that we now know that the seller is based in China and thats where the item 
needs to be returned to. That situation is unfortunate for Mr M  but I cant 
reasonably make any other conclusion.
PayPals position is that the terms and conditions of the Buyer Protection scheme 
explain that an item should be returned to a seller in order for a customer to qualify 
for a reimbursement. Thats because it would be unfair for a customer to be granted 
a reimbursement while still retaining ownership of the item being reimbursed.
With this in mind, it follows that in order for Mr M to qualify for reimbursement under 
the Buyer Protection scheme, its fair that the item should be returned to the seller, 
and that this return should be to the sellers address in China.
Unlike our investigator though, Im not convinced that its fair to ask PayPal to meet 
the postage cost of having this item returned to China. I say this because its difficult 
for me to conclude that PayPal have acted unfairly or inappropriately in how theyve 
handled this situation with Mr M here.
For instance, the terms and conditions of the Buyer Protection scheme require that 
the item be returned to the seller, the issue with this item being that the seller is 
based in China. I cant fairly say that PayPal have done anything wrong in insisting 
that the item be returned to the seller, as they are simply upholding the terms and 
conditions of the buyer agreement.
I note that our investigator drew attention to the wording of PayPals terms and 
conditions and concluded from that wording that there was sufficient scope to ask 
PayPal to meet the cost of the item return to China. But it seems to me that the 
overriding intention of PayPals terms and conditions was to protect Mr Ms rights as 
a buyer while also protecting PayPal against circumstances such as this  being 
asked to meet a significant cost for which they bear no responsibility. So, I think its 
fair that PayPal asks Mr M to meet the cost of postage here.
I agree that, on the face of it, it does seem unfair here that Mr M be asked to return 
the item to China at his own expense, and I understand that, while the information 
that the seller was based in China may have been available to Mr M at the time he purchased the item, he may not have registered this information or understood the 
significance of it with regard to any potential return he might wish to make.
But any potential misunderstanding of the particulars of the sale he was entering into 
doesnt mean that its fair or appropriate that the cost of returning the item to China 
should be transferred from him to PayPal. Thats especially considering that PayPals 
role in this transaction wasnt one of either buyer, seller, or market place, but rather 
that of electronic payment provider.
So, while I can certainly sympathise with Mr M in this instance, I cant uphold this 
complaint against PayPal. I know that this wont be the response that Mr M was 
wanting, and I hope that he is able to find a suitable solution via other channels, but 
as explained above, I think that PayPal have acted appropriately here in following the 
requirements of their terms and conditions and I dont feel that it would be fair to ask 
them to bear any cost, or take any further action, at this time.
In my provisional decision, I invited both Mr M and PayPal to make any comments or provide 
any additional information that they would like me to consider before I moved to make a final 
decision. PayPal confirmed that they accepted my provisional decision. However, Mr M 
provided a detailed response to my provisional decision via an authorised representative.
Several of the points raised by Mr Ms representative concern the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA). This service is not a court of law and does not operate as such. Rather, as an 
informal dispute resolution service, the remit of myself as an ombudsman within this service 
is to decide on what I feel is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint, in 
consideration of all the evidence and information available to me. It follows that I will be 
unable to comment on the points that Mr Ms representative raises regarding the CRA in any 
detail.
Mr Ms representative has commented that the item in question was purchased by Mr M 
from an online merchant that has parent/subsidiary relationship with PayPal. However, this is 
not the case. The online merchant in question is a separate entity from PayPal, and the 
parent/subsidiary relationship that Mr Ms representative describes does not exist.
Mr Ms representative also states that Mr M wasnt attempting to arrange the reimbursement 
of the cost of the item under PayPals Buyer Protection scheme, but rather was attempting to 
exercise his right to reject the item under the CRA. 
I find it difficult to agree with this assertion, and Im not convinced that the CRA applies in 
this instance, given that PayPals role in the transaction was that of electronic payment 
services provider and not that of either buyer, seller, or facilitating merchant. Its also 
apparent from the information available to me that at the time that Mr M was interacting 
directly with PayPal and also during his submission to this service that Mr M was specifically 
attempting to arrange reimbursement of the item under PayPals Buyer Protection scheme  
and indeed, this is the very basis of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr Ms representative points out that Mr M purchased the item from the seller that he did at 
least in part because the item wasnt being delivered from China, and that this was evident 
from the relatively quick delivery time advertised by the seller.
I can appreciate the point that is raised here, and I acknowledge that the item was, in all 
likelihood, in the UK already at the time that Mr M purchased it, and that it was this that 
enabled the item to be delivered to Mr M in a timely manner. But it doesnt follow from this 
that the seller wasnt based in China, and it can be the case that items being sold by an overseas merchant are held at dispatch addresses in the UK in readiness and anticipation of 
those items being purchased by UK customers.
I did consider whether it might be possible for Mr M to return the item to the dispatch 
address, but there is no guarantee of any relationship between the dispatch address and the 
seller beyond that of dispatching items held for the seller to UK customers, and it followed 
that there was no guarantee that any item returned to the dispatch address would be 
forwarded on to the seller in China, as would be required for Mr M to qualify for the 
reimbursement from PayPal.
Im also not satisfied that it would be reasonable to expect either the UK dispatcher or the 
seller in China to cover the cost of the additional postage back to China that would be 
required in this scenario, and similarly Im not convinced that PayPal would be obliged to 
honour the reimbursement to Mr M under the Buyer Protection scheme until such time that it 
could be confirmed that the seller in China had received the returned item. And I am satisfied 
that seller is based in China.
Finally, Mr Ms representative believes that the seller misrepresented the item to Mr M such 
that it would be reasonable to reach a conclusion of breach of contract under the CRA. 
However, as explained previously, I am unable to make such a conclusion, which would be a 
matter for a court of law and is beyond the remit of this service.
All of which means that Im not convinced that any of the positions put forward by Mr Ms 
representative compel me to consider amending the outcome explained in my provisional 
decision, and it follows that my final decision will be that I do not uphold this complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M or his representative were wanting here, 
but I hope they can understand, based on everything I have explained above, why I have 
reached the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman