DRN-3540294
The complaint
Mr K complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE have unfairly declined his claim for Legal 
Expenses Insurance (LEI) in relation to an employment dispute. 
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr K had the benefit of LEI for certain legal expenses which was provided by Great Lakes. 
His policy with Great Lakes started in May 2018. In March 2019 Mr K sought to make a 
claim.
In a broad summary he wanted to take legal action against his employer. He was unhappy 
that his reporting line had been changed and also said that this is the last straw in a series 
of unfair treatments that happened over the last years. 
Great Lakes asked one of their panel solicitors S to assess the prospects of Mr Ks claim. S 
concluded that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success (which is a 
requirement for cover under the policy). There was some back and forth between Mr K and 
S, but ultimately S maintained their opinion of the prospects of his claim. 
Based on this Great Lakes declined to take the claim further. In October 2019 they said that 
if Mr K provided a supportive solicitors opinion (at his own expense), then they would further 
consider his claim. 
Mr K provided a legal opinion that was supportive of the prospects of his case in May 2020. 
Following on from this Great Lakes asked a barrister for their opinion. Initially the barrister 
said that the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success, and that other aspects may 
not be covered by the policy due to an exclusion involving the date of occurrence. 
Mr K pointed out that the barrister seemed to have formed his opinion without all the relevant 
information. So Great Lakes obtained further documents and information and passed them 
on to the barrister for further consideration. Ultimately the barrister didnt change his opinion 
and Great Lakes declined to take further action.
Mr K complained. Great Lakes acknowledged a minor service failing, but ultimately stood by 
their decision to decline the claim. The matter was referred to our service and one of our 
Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr K disagrees and 
has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for essentially the 
same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr K, so Ill explain why. 
Prospects
Like nearly all LEI policies, Mr Ks has the requirement that any underlying legal action has 
reasonable prospects of success. Specifically, the policy says: In order for us to accept 
your claim, we must deem that there are reasonable prospects: A 51% or greater chance 
that you will recover damagesin your pursuit of civil proceedings
Litigation can be expensive and a privately paying client wouldnt generally continue legal 
action if advised they were unlikely to achieve a positive outcome, so I dont think an insurer 
should have to either. 
Great Lakes themselves arent legal experts. So, I think its fair that they rely on suitably 
qualified legal opinions when making decisions about a claim. Unless that advice is so 
obviously wrong that a layperson could be expected to notice. 
In this case, Im satisfied that the legal opinions from S and the barrister are from suitably 
qualified persons with the relevant experience. I also dont consider the opinions to be 
obviously wrong. So, I think it is fair for Great Lakes to rely on the conclusions reached with 
regards to reasonable prospects.
Im satisfied Mr K was given the opportunity to provide further information and evidence to 
support his claim at both stages. And Great Lakes acted appropriately in response to that as 
further consideration was given each time. 
I also dont think it was unreasonable or unfair for Great Lakes to seek a barristers opinion. 
The policy includes provision for this when it says: Where reasonable and necessary, we 
may obtain at our own costs, advice on the prospects for your claim from an independent 
barrister. This will be in the event that there is a dispute on the prospects of success for your 
claim, between your choice of appointed representative and our panel solicitors. 
Mr K has questioned the independence of the barrister, particularly if they are regularly 
instructed by Great Lakes. Ive considered this, but legal professionals are required to 
discharge their duties objectively. And Im not persuaded there is any reasonable reason that 
means its unfair or improper for Great Lakes to rely on that opinion. 
There was also an issue around Great Lakes initially requiring an updated case 
management report (CMR) form from Mr Ks solicitor in May 2020. And then going on to 
decline the claim without that form being submitted. Our Investigator thought that as there 
were further heads of claim introduced in May 2020 (compared to those previously 
considered by S) that it wasnt fair for Mr K to have to pay his solicitor to complete the CMR. 
She said that if Mr K had incurred further costs he should let her know. 
Mr K said that he didnt instruct his solicitor to complete the form. He says he still incurred 
costs in communicating with his solicitor about that requirement which was billed at 15 
minutes per email. But when Mr K didnt evidence those costs and that they were specific to the CMR, our Investigator concluded that she couldnt ask Great Lakes to do more. I agree, I 
dont think Mr K has evidenced he incurred further costs, despite having had the opportunity 
to do so. And in the absence of such evidence, Im not going to make an award against 
Great Lakes in that regard. 
Date of Occurrence
Under the heading of General Exclusions Mr Ks policy says: Any claim where the date of 
occurrence is before the inception date of this policy. The phrase date of occurrence is 
given a specific definition of: The date of occurrence is the date of the event, which may 
lead to a claim (if there is more than one relevant event, the date of occurrence means the 
date of the first of these events.) 
This is a common term for this type of insurance and not something I consider inherently 
unfair. Insurance is intended to protect against the risk of something happening in the future. 
I dont think its unreasonable to exclude things that have either already happened or started 
prior to the start of the policy. 
The main crux of the claim that Great Lakes have said is caught by the above exclusion 
relates to an allegation of racial discrimination against Mr K. 
Mr Ks own solicitors opinion on prospects says: There are a number of occasions (starting 
with your grievance in 2017 where you have stated to your employer that you considered 
you were the subject of discrimination. I consider it reasonably arguable that (1) those 
statements amount to protected acts and (2) you were subjected to unfavourable treatment 
as a result of making those complaints.
Mr K later said that his claim wasnt about the 2017 discrimination itself but was a result of 
unfavourable treatment as a result of that complaint which happened in late 2018 and early 
2019. Mr K has also said that there is no clear definition of what may lead to a claim 
provided above. He says that his 2017 dispute was in fact completely resolved and that a 
fair-minded person would only think that an event may lead to a claim when the prospects of 
the litigation is more than 50%. He also points out that Great Lakes initial assessment (by S) 
didnt comment on the date of occurrence and instead focused only on prospects. He says 
this caused him to waste money on obtaining his own opinion. 
Ive considered all of this, but I dont agree. Im not persuaded that this term excludes events 
where the policy requirement for prospects of an underlying dispute arent met. This is about 
whether the events leading to a dispute had started before the insurance did. Not whether 
the chances of winning are favourable or that it is proportionate to pursue. 
It is accepted that Mr K had a dispute with his employer in 2017. In June 2020 one of Mr Ks 
emails to Great Lakes said his claim was in relation to: 1. Victimisation that occurred 
AFTER insurance commenced, even though in retaliation to 2017 Grievance. 2. Series of 
Race Discrimination that occurred separately and independently between July 2017 and 
April 2019, most of which happened AFTER insurance commenced
Mr Ks policy with Great Lakes started in 2018. And whilst I appreciate he was trying to draw 
a distinction, I think Mr Ks own words as quoted above support that the events of 2017 were 
linked to his claim. He considered hed been the victim of discrimination prior to the start of 
the policy. I dont agree this is only background information and I dont think Great Lakes 
considering the prior events to be relevant and applying the above exclusion is unfair or 
unreasonable. The term is clear that where there is more than one relevant event, the date 
of occurrence shall be the first of those events. If Mr K has had continuous LEI cover he may 
wish to explore whether a previous insurer is able to assist him.And whilst Great Lakes didnt comment on the date of occurrence in their initial decline of his 
claim (based on S prospects assessment), I wouldnt necessarily expect them to have 
considered every possible exclusion and requirement of the policy at the start. The claim 
was found by S to not have the required prospects and declining it on that basis at that time 
was fair. I dont agree that Great Lakes should have gone further and given an answer in 
relation to all the remaining terms of the policy that might be relevant. And I can see they did 
highlight the date of occurrence exclusion soon after receiving Mr Ks solicitors opinion. I 
think this is fair.
Service and Summary
I agree with our Investigator that there were some minor instances of poor service by Great 
Lakes including some delays in responding to emails. But Im not persuaded these service 
issues impacted on the overall claim outcome or that they caused distress and 
inconvenience such that a compensation award is appropriate in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Overall, I dont think Mr K has been treated unfairly by Great Lakes and so Im not going to 
require them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman