DRN-3359866
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with One Call Insurance Services Limited. He says the way it dealt with his 
enquiry about his home insurance policy caused him to pay a higher premium.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr D was having his garage converted, so he told One Call. It checked with the 
insurer, who said the policy would remain the same until it renewed.
Before his policy was due to renew, he got in touch with One Call again and gave an 
update on the conversion. One Call agreed to check with the insurer whether this 
would have an impact on the renewal and let Mr D know.
A week later, Mr D hadnt heard back, so he contacted One Call again. He was told it 
was awaiting an answer from the insurer. He tried a few more times over the next 
week and was told the same thing.
Having still not heard back and with only a week to go until the policy was due to end, 
Mr D took out insurance with another provider. It cost around £600, which was £350 
more than Mr D had paid One Call the year before. He complained about the service 
hed received and asked One Call to pay the difference in policy costs.
One Call accepted its service was below the expected standard. It apologised and 
offered Mr D £100 compensation. But it didnt think it had caused him to lose out 
financially. It said the policy would likely have cost more regardless.
Our investigator thought One Calls offer was reasonable. Mr D disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that One Call provided a poor service to Mr D. It accepts it should have 
been more proactive when contacting the insurer, including when Mr D chased for a 
response several times. I agree. It seems Mr D was left with no option but to use the live 
chat function to chase for a response. And each time he did that, he was simply told he 
would have to wait, with no indication of when he might be likely to receive a response. I can 
understand why he found the lack of urgency and support frustrating and concerning  
particularly as the renewal date grew closer and he faced the possibility of the policy ending.
Where a business accepts its made a mistake, my role is to consider what the impact of that 
mistake was on the consumer. So, if it hadnt made a mistake, what position would the 
consumer be in?
I bear in mind this complaint is about One Call and the things its responsible for  its not 
about the insurer, who is a separate company.
Around the time Mr D took out a policy with another provider, One Call heard back from the 
insurer. It wanted to know further information from Mr D in order to decide whether to offer 
the policy or not  and if so, on what terms. Because Mr D had already found a policy 
elsewhere, the questions werent asked and so we dont know what the insurer would have 
done with the information it wanted to know. So it isnt clear what would have happened if 
One Call had more proactively contacted the insurer from the outset.
There are several possibilities. The insurer:
Wouldnt have offered a renewal at all
Would have offered a renewal with a significantly increased premium
Would have offered a renewal with a similar or slightly increased premium
In the second or third possibilities, the insurer may also have added policy terms to manage 
the risk of providing cover when building work was yet to be fully signed off.
Mr D has questioned how likely the first two options are as the insurer agreed to continue 
with his policy when he first let it know about the conversion. Theres usually a different 
approach when taking out or renewing a policy than part way through one. Generally, 
insurers only make changes during a policy if something fundamental to the risk insured is 
changed  for example, moving home. Just because the insurer didnt make any changes 
during the policy, doesnt mean it was unlikely to make any changes at renewal.
So I dont think any of the options can be ruled out entirely. In the first two, Mr D is likely to 
be in the same position he is now  paying a significantly increased premium to one insurer 
or another. In the third, he would likely have paid less. Only if this was the most likely option 
would Mr D have suffered a financial loss as a result of the way One Call handled things.
I understand Mr D thinks option three is the most likely. He says the policy he took out 
elsewhere is a specialist policy, so its likely to be more expensive than a standard home 
policy. Im not persuaded this is necessarily the case. The fact the insurer wanted to ask a 
number of extra questions suggests it wasnt treating the situation as standard and was 
assessing the additional risk it may face. I understand Mr D used tools such as comparison 
websites to seek cover and found few, if any, standard policies available for his 
circumstances. I dont think that supports the view that option three is the most likely.
Overall I havent been persuaded option three is the most likely, so Im not satisfied Mr D 
has shown that One Call caused him a financial loss. So Im not going to tell One Call to pay 
him the difference between his new and old policy costs.
Whilst he may not have been caused a financial loss, Im satisfied Mr D was caused 
avoidable distress and inconvenience. Had One Call acted promptly, its likely Mr D would 
have found out the insurers position sooner  and he wouldnt have been left to chase One 
Call repeatedly. This would have saved him time and frustration. So I think its right that One 
Call pays him compensation. Im satisfied £100 is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman