DRN-3561569
The complaint
Mr G complains about the increase to the premium charged by BUPA Insurance Limited for 
his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G has held private medical insurance cover with Bupa for many years. At the 2021 
renewal, Bupa increased Mr Gs premium. He complained to Bupa about this. 
Bupa explained the factors which had impacted the renewal price. Mr G was particularly 
unhappy with the way in which the low claims bonus (LCB) scheme worked, and the impact 
this had had on his premiums. He thought Bupa should replace the LCB scheme with a no 
claims discount scheme. He brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it had been up to 
Bupa to decide what to charge for the premiums, and didnt think Mr G had been treated 
unfairly. He explained that he couldnt comment on Bupas decision to apply the LCB 
scheme to Mr Gs policy.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has explained, this service generally takes the view that its up to an 
insurer to decide how much to charge for its policies. So long as it exercises that judgement 
fairly and consistently, its a matter in which this service wouldnt normally interfere. 
Bupa has told Mr G the factors that were taken into account when calculating his renewal 
premium. Bupa has also provided further details to this service, though I cant share this 
information with Mr G, as its commercially sensitive. Though I have checked this and based 
on what Ive seen, it appears his premium was charged accurately.
As Mr G made claims in 2019 and 2020, his renewal premium was impacted by his claims 
due to the LCB scheme. Mr G understands how the LCB scheme works, so I wont describe 
it here. However, Bupas decision to apply the LCB scheme to this policy (and others) is a 
matter of its commercial judgement, and so is not something that this service would interfere 
with or comment upon. 
I do understand Mr Gs concerns. If his cover with Bupa becomes unaffordable, he would 
have to change to a different Bupa policy or change providers entirely, and may not have 
cover for any existing conditions. However, Im satisfied that Bupa hasnt treated him 
unfairly, or singled him out in any way.
Mr G thinks the health insurance industry should be forced to allow members to transfer their 
underwriting status from one provider to another. He also thinks I should consider whether 
all policyholders on this policy have been treated unfairly by Bupa. However, these points fall 
outside the remit of this service, and therefore Ive only considered Mr Gs individual dispute 
against Bupa regarding the increase to his premium.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman