DRN-3742686
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Continuum (Financial Services) LLP (Continuum) made an error 
in processing his pension switch. He wanted to transfer £120,000 from his Aegon personal 
pension to his Standard Life SIPP but the whole fund was transferred. His money was 
uninvested while this was resolved, causing him lost growth. He would like the losses to be 
reinstated and to be compensated for the time taken to resolve the issue and the stress it 
caused him.
What happened
Mr L was a client of Continuum. Having previously self-managed his pensions he was 
moving funds over to Continuums management in stages because he did not want to move 
all the money at once.
Continuum submitted an online application to Standard Life on 25 February 2022 which 
specified that the amount to be transferred was £120,000. There was nowhere to select full 
or partial transfer, or to state the full value of the ceding scheme. At the time the full value 
was £378,587. The same day the Continuum adviser emailed the Standard Life new 
business team to let them know the application had been submitted.
The Standard Life transfer form requested the transfer of all sums due to me and on 28 
February Standard Life requested a full transfer from Aegon.
The same day Standard life emailed the Continuum adviser to inform him that they had 
requested the full transfer from Aegon. The adviser replied straight away, saying Please 
note that this is a partial transfer for the sum of £120,000 only. Please ensure the request to 
Aegon reflects this. He also informed his relationship manager at Standard Life.
The transfer request was actioned by Aegon on 2 March, with all funds in his Aegon pension 
being sold ready for transfer. The next day Standard Life tried to cancel the full transfer 
request but it was already too late. 
Over the following weeks Standard Life kept the £120,000 as intended and returned the 
remaining funds to Aegon. The money was replaced in Mr Ls Aegon pension, but the fund 
values had risen in the meantime, so the money was not able to buy the same number of 
units in the funds as he had previously held.
Mr L submitted complaints to both Aegon and Standard Life. Aegon did not uphold the 
complaint because they said they followed the instructions they were given and by the time 
they were told it should have been a partial transfer it was too late. Standard Life did not 
uphold the complaint because they said that the transfer was initiated as a full transfer, and 
they had responded to the email requesting a partial transfer within a reasonable timescale. 
Standard Life also said that in Aegons position they would have raised a query given the 
large discrepancy between the £120,000 requested and the full value of the pension. 
Mr L then made a complaint against Continuum. Their response was that they were unable 
to uphold the complaint. Standard Life did not have a formal process for partial transfers, so 
the adviser did what he should have done by informing Standard Life separately (via email) 
that the transfer was partial.
Mr L did not agree so he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld the 
complaint against Continuum as the adviser should have recognised that the Standard Life 
form requested a full transfer. Continuum disagreed and provided further evidence to 
support their position including screenshots of the online application process. They said that 
they had followed the process that was in place, namely to provide separate confirmation of 
the partial transfer.
The complaint was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In preparing their response to the complaint, Continuum asked Standard Life about their 
partial transfer process. Standard Life said advisers should process the transfer online as 
normal and inform Standard Life separately that the particular transfer was to be partial, not 
full.
Continuums position is that they followed the Standard Life process since the online 
instruction was for £120,000 and they instructed Standard Life that the transfer was partial.
While the transaction was input online for an amount of £120,000, the Standard Life form 
refers to all sums due to me so I think Continuum ought to have known that this would 
generally be taken to mean a full transfer. And Standard Life were not told in advance that 
the full value of the Aegon SIPP was £378,587, so would have had no reason to query the 
£120,000 amount.
On 25 February, when the application was submitted, the Continuum adviser emailed the 
Standard Life New Business team but the email did not specify that the transfer was partial, 
only that it was for £120,000. Nor did the email tell Standard Life the full value of the ceding 
scheme. It was not until Standard Life emailed the adviser on 28 February to say that a full 
transfer had been requested, that the adviser told Standard Life the £120,000 was a partial 
transfer. In fairness to the adviser he responded straight away, but by the time Standard Life 
acted on the request (albeit within a reasonable timescale) it was too late. Aegon had 
already acted on the initial instruction/request for a full transfer.
I have some sympathy with the view that Aegon ought to have questioned the amount, given 
that £120,000 was clearly specified, although I also understand that the process was 
automated so that there was no opportunity to intervene. Equally, if Standard Lifes systems 
had been set up to allow for partial transfer requests then there would be no need for a 
manual workaround for partial transfers. But Standard Life didnt know until it was too late, 
nor did they know the full value of the scheme so they had no reason to query the amount.
So although the adviser did inform Standard Life that the transfer was to be partial, he did 
not do so until the transfer had already been requested, when it was too late. To ensure the 
transfer was processed correctly the adviser could have contacted both providers in advance 
to make the instructions impossible to misinterpret. 
Therefore I find that Continuum are responsible for the transfer being processed as a full 
transfer and I am going to uphold Mr Ls complaint.Mr L told us that the whole situation has taken him many days to sort out, and caused a lot 
of worry and stress given the amount of money involved.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr L should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if not for the error.
Its clear Mr L wanted to transfer £120,000 only so Continuum will need to obtain a notional 
value from Aegon. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr 
L's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Continuum do?
To compensate Mr L fairly, Continuum must:
Compare the performance of Mr L's investment with the notional value had it 
remained with Aegon (less the £120,000 he wanted to transfer). If the actual value is 
greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Continuum should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Continuum should pay into Mr L's Aegon pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Continuum is unable to pay the total amount into Mr L's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr L wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr L's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr L would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr L £300 for the time taken to pursue his complaint and resolve the issue 
with his pension, and the stress caused as a result of the amount of money involved.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Continuum deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr L how much has been taken off. Continuum should give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr L asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Aegon Still exists and Notional value 2 March 2022 Date of 8% simple if personal 
pensionliquid from previous 
provider(date of sale 
of funds)calculation not settled 
within 60 days 
of Mr L 
accepting the 
final decision
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr L's investment if only £120,000 had been sold and transferred and the 
rest had remained with Aegon until the end date. Continuum should request that the 
previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the Aegon personal pension should be deducted from the notional 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Continuum totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be
found by following this link: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-
complaint/understanding-compensation/compensation-investment-complaints    
Alternatively, just type compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our
website: www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk
If you are unable to obtain a notional value, you will need to determine a fair value for Mr
L's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors Income
Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value
using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of
compensation.
I am allowing Continuum 60 days from the date Mr L accepts the final decision before 
applying interest to allow time to obtain the notional value from Aegon.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
We know what Mr L would have invested in.
If Aegon is unable to calculate the Notional Value, then I consider the measure below 
is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017,
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher
return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison
given Mr L's circumstances and risk attitude.My final decision
For the reasons given I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Continuum (Financial 
Services) LLP should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Continuum (Financial Services) LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr L in a 
clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman