DRN-2115767
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (T/A Halifax) allowed someone other than him to 
change his password and memorable banking information. He says this breached data 
protection legislation and caused him distress.
Mr S is represented by his father in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by him directly.
What happened
Mr S holds an account with Halifax. On 17 March 2020, Halifax said a reminder of Mr S 
username was requested online in addition to a request that it reset his password and 
memorable information. Halifax believes these requests were made by Mr S. But he says 
they were made by a third party without his authorisation.
As Mr S felt Halifax had permitted an unauthorised third party to access his account, and 
had breached data protection legislation in doing so, he complained. When Halifax 
responded to Mr S complaint it didnt uphold it. It didnt think it had made an error and stated 
the requests to reset Mr S password and memorable information were made using the IP 
address that hed used previously to log onto his app. 
Halifax also explained that after receiving requests to reset Mr S password and memorable 
information an automated call service was made to his home telephone number to verify the 
requests that had been made. So, it thought if Mr S hadnt changed his log on details it could 
only have been done by an individual within his household. 
Being dissatisfied with Halifaxs response to his complaint Mr S referred it to our service. 
After our investigator looked into what happened they didnt recommend upholding Mr S 
complaint. They werent persuaded Halifax had made an error and didnt think it needed to 
do anything more as a result. They also explained that Mr S complaint about data protection 
breaches couldnt be considered by our service as it didnt fall within our jurisdiction. But Mr 
S disagreed with our investigators view and asked for his compliant to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of this complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy 
by this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think 
are the key issues. I can assure Mr S and Halifax that Ive read everything that they have 
provided. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Based on the evidence presented by Halifax and Mr S I can see that until 17 March 2020 he 
was able to log onto online banking successfully using his password and memorable 
information. I can also see the IP address he used in order to do so. There appears to be no 
dispute about the legitimacy of online banking logins prior to 17 March 2020.
Its accepted that a request was made to change Mr S password and memorable 
information on 17 March 2020. However, while Halifax says this change was requested by 
Mr S, he disputes this. 
Where theres a disagreement about what happened, as there is here, I must base my 
decision based on what I think is more likely to have happened in the circumstances, on the 
balance of the evidence available. Ive given careful consideration to what is being said here. 
But based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not, on balance, that Halifax 
had good reason to believe Mr S had requested password and memorable information 
reminders. Ill explain why.
An enhanced internet authentication call was completed to Mr S home address using the 
number hed previously provided to Halifax. Based on the records Halifax sent our service 
Im satisfied this telephone call was answered and the four-digit security code, which would 
have been displayed on the online banking screen, was entered correctly. As a result, 
Halifax were satisfied that the individual requesting the changes was in fact Mr S. I dont 
think this was unreasonable or an error on its part  particularly given the security measures 
it had adopted to verify the changes that had been requested here. 
Ive carefully considered Mr S comments in response to our investigators view of his 
complaint. Its clear he feels communications with Halifax were intercepted and that 
someone hacked into his account. However, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade 
me this happened.  
In this case the same IP address was used to request the changes and the telephone 
number that was answered matched the one previously provided by Mr S. Both these factors 
satisfy me that the request to change Mr S password and memorable information came from 
his household.
Its clear that the same IP address was used to access Mr S account after the changes had 
been made by Halifax. Mr S hasnt presented any evidence to demonstrate that his IP 
address and home landline telephone number was hacked. And, as our investigator has 
said, no unauthorised transactions have been reported by Mr S. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S 
but, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, the evidence satisfies me that he 
requested the changes in this case.
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Ss complaint, which is about his concerns that Halifax 
breached data protection legislation.
I can see that our investigators already signposted Mr S to the Information Commissioners 
Office should he wish to pursue this issue further. Our investigator was right to say the ICO 
is better placed than this service to look at an organisations handling of personal data 
because its not our role to decide whether a breach of data protection has taken place. So, I 
wont be commenting on this part of his complaint as this issue falls outside of our 
jurisdiction.
I know this wont be the response Mr S will want and I understand he feels very strongly 
about the issues raised in this complaint. But for the reasons given, I dont think Halifax 
made an error here. I also think that its responded to this complaint fairly and reasonably 
and I wont be asking it to do anymore.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman