DRN-2263291
The complaint
Ms W says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Ms W took out a PPI policy for a mortgage in 2007. Ms W paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off work sick 
or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms Ws representative disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ws case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ms Ws mortgage application offered her the choice to take out PPI or turn it down. Its 
recorded that she was undecided at that point. Her application went ahead without her taking 
out PPI.
According to the notes, Ms W later had a branch meeting where they discussed PPI and 
generated a quote. The original quote document isnt still available, but Ive looked at a 
sample copy of one from the same time. It would have made it clear that the policy was not a 
condition of the mortgage, and set out its cost separately to the cost of the mortgage itself  
the PPI was not part and parcel of the lending. Ms Ws mortgage offer also reiterated that 
she didnt have to buy any insurance from Nationwide if she didnt want to.
Its recorded that Ms W only accepted the PPI quote more than a month later  after 
considering it in her own time and without the potential pressure of a salesperson being in 
front of her. And by that point shed already received her mortgage offer without taking PPI, 
so she wouldve known she didnt have to buy PPI to get the lending.
I understand that Ms W was going through a truly tough time at that point, and Im sorry to 
hear about the difficulties she was facing. But Ive not seen any evidence to substantiate that 
she was unfairly pressured or misled into buying PPI. And Ive not seen any wider 
problems with Nationwides sales process from the time, either. As far as I can see, 
Nationwide made it clear to Ms W that she had a choice about buying PPI, and she chose to 
take it in her own time. I understand that some years later she no longer recalled taking out 
PPI, but I think thats understandable given just how long had passed, and given that buying 
insurance is not often memorable.
Its not clear whether Nationwide recommended the PPI to Ms W, or not. The requirements 
were stricter on Nationwide if they did recommend it, so to be as fair to Ms W as possible, Ill 
assume they did. That means Nationwide had to check the policy was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Ms W was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. It wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits and offered 
her much more comprehensive cover. I understand Ms W had life insurance, but that 
covered very different things to the PPI so Im afraid its not relevant here. I also understand 
Ms Ws family was happy to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help 
when needed. I dont consider voluntary help from family or friends to be an equivalent type 
of protection to regulated insurance. And this mortgage was Ms Ws sole responsibility, not 
anyone elses, so I dont think it would have been suitable if Nationwide had recommended 
she rely on other individuals to pay it. Ultimately, its worth bearing in mind that if Ms W had 
fallen behind on her repayments, she couldve lost her home. So the PPI could have really 
been useful for her in protecting her home and providing some peace of mind.
The documents set out the policys cost and benefit clearly. So I think Ms W wouldve 
understood how much she would pay for it and what it could pay out.
It is possible that Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy wouldnt cover. But 
as I explained above, Ms W doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman