DRN-3588893
The complaint
Mr D complains that KLO Financial Services Ltd (KLO) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) he held with his former 
employer to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
Mr D is being represented by a third party, but for ease Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by him.
What happened
In July 2018, KLO recommended Mr D transfer his OPS into a SIPP to meet his objectives, 
after hed received a cold call to discuss his pension. The fact find from the time said Mr D 
was aged 56, single and self-employed, earning around £37,000 per year, with monthly 
expenditure totalling £1,250. It said he lived in a property he owned, worth around £180,000 
with an outstanding mortgage of £13,000 that had five years left outstanding. It said he had 
no savings and a £5,000 legal aid loan. And it said Mr D had £10,000 in life assurance that 
he was paying £25 per month for. 
The suitability report said Mr D wanted tax free cash (TFC) to pay off debts, have an 
emergency fund, make a gift to his son and go on holidays. It also said Mr D wanted 
improved death benefits for his son (aged 21), who he considered to be financially 
dependent, and that he was seeking flexibility and control to be able to take benefits before 
his OPS normal retirement age, as he may spend more in the earlier years while hes 
younger. The suitability report notes Mr D had a preserved final salary pension with a 
transfer value of £200,088.01, that was projected to pay a pension of £13,350 per year from 
age 65 or a reduced pension of £9,614 per year plus tax free cash of £64,096. It said Mr D 
had another SIPP with a provider who was in administration, which wasnt in payment and 
that he was unsure of the value. It also said Mr D envisaged retiring at 65, with an income of 
£9,000 per year in addition to his state pension. 
KLO carried out a risk-profiling exercise and said Mr D had a moderate attitude to risk 
(ATR). And it recommended Mr D transfer his OPS to a SIPP and invest in what it said was 
a balanced risk portfolio, as he wasnt completely adverse to investment risk. Mr D accepted 
KLOs recommendation and his pension benefits  the transfer value of which had since 
increased to £221,373.68  were transferred to his SIPP in December 2018. Mr D took TFC 
totalling £56,338.36 and the remainder was invested. 
In April 2021, Mr D complained to KLO, unhappy that hed been advised to transfer his OPS 
to a SIPP and invest in high risk, unsuitable, investments. He said he had a low risk profile in 
light of his circumstances and lack of investment experience. 
KLO responded saying, in summary, that the information from the time supports and makes 
clear that Mr Ds ATR was moderate and he signed a declaration confirming he accepted the 
advice was based on information hed provided and that the recommendations were a fair 
reflection of his circumstances, objectives and priorities. It also said the investments 
recommended were in line with this and had an investment horizon of between five to ten 
years, which was in line with Mr Ds intended retirement age. 
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators said he didnt think KLO 
had demonstrated that transferring Mr D OPS was in his best interests. And that KLO 
should put Mr D back into the position he wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice. He 
also said it should pay Mr D £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to him by this matter. 
While Mr D accepted this, KLO didnt agree. It said, in summary, that it would be difficult to 
conclude Mr D has experienced a financial loss in light of the portfolio it recommended, as 
the return on it for the time in question is 21.99%. It said it hasnt seen any evidence to 
suggest Mr D experienced such a loss. And it reiterated that its advice was suitable in light of 
Mr Ds ATR and objectives, which couldnt be achieved by staying in the OPS, particularly as 
he wanted immediate access to TFC and control over his benefits. It said that referring to the 
discount rate wasnt part of its process. And that it used other measures, such as cashflow 
forecasting, to demonstrate drawdown income sustainability in light of his objectives. 
So Mr D complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of KLO's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from an OPS is that it is unsuitable. So, KLO should have 
only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best 
interests.
Financial viability
As required by the regulator, KLO carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) 
showing how much Mr Ds pension fund would need to grow by each year to provide the 
same benefits as his OPS (the critical yield). 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr D was 56 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 65. According to the suitability 
report, the critical yield required to match Mr Ds OPS benefits at age 65 was 9.8% if he took 
a full pension and 7.9% if he took a reduced pension and TFC. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.5% per year for 8 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
In the suitability report KLO said the fund it was recommending had a 6.96% annual average 
return. But I think projecting that level of growth over such a long period of time was 
optimistic, it doesnt appear to take account of charges or that the illustration for the SIPP it 
was recommending assumed the middle growth rate to be 2.4% per annum after taking 
account of future inflation of 2.5% per year and charges. The impact of this meant that the 
value of Mr Ds fund at age 65, after taking account of all charges and inflation, was 
projected to be £225,000 in todays terms. This was substantially less than the value of the 
fund the TVAS said Mr T would need at 65 in order to purchase an annuity providing 
comparable benefits to his existing scheme, which was £418,315 or £356,685 based on a 
reduced pension and TFC. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ds 
determined medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point in Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here the lowest critical 
yield was 7.9%. I appreciate the transfer value had increased by the time Mr D transferred to 
the SIPP, which is likely to have decreased the critical yield somewhat. But I think Mr D was 
still likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the OPS at 
retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. In order to achieve the 
critical yield I think Mr D wouldve needed to take a substantially higher risk.
KLO said it wasnt required to take the discount rate into account and that this wasnt part of 
its sales process. While I havent based my findings on this, I think it a reasonable additional 
consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at 
the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the 
benefits likely to be paid under an OPS with those payable under a SIPP by using 
reasonable assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be 
considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And, in any event, this has been considered in tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers were 
required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Ds attitude to risk, which leads 
me to be believe hed unlikely be better off in retirement if he transferred to a SIPP.
KLO recognised in the suitability report that the critical yield couldnt be achieved if Mr D 
adopted the moderate risk-based approach, but said the critical yield assumes Mr D would 
buy an annuity when he said he has no desire to do so, as he instead values flexibility of 
income, increased TFC and increased death benefits. And it said that its cashflow 
forecasting models demonstrate drawdown sustainability and that Mr D would have been 
able to meet his needs. 
But the regulator required KLO to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to 
be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So it needed to provide an analysis 
based on the critical yield. And I do think it is a relevant consideration here, particularly as     
I dont think Mr D could realistically say with any certainty whether he would want to take a 
regular fixed income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least another    
eight years. So, I think its entirely possible that Mr D would want at least some guaranteed 
income in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the OPS).
I acknowledge that the critical yield to match the scheme benefits included the provision for a 
50% spouses pension and KLO may argue that this wasnt needed by Mr D as he was 
single. But the TVAS also shows that if the SIPP grew at the middle projection rate, the 
single life annuity he could purchase with the fund at age 65 was still inferior to the pension 
his OPS provided. Although Mr D could take a slightly higher amount of TFC (£69,892 
compared with £64,096), his annual pension would be significantly lower (£6,115 compared 
with £9,614). So I think its clear Mr D wouldve been worse off if he wanted his pension to 
provide him with a fixed, guaranteed income.
The cashflow forecasting model Ive seen is based on Mr D taking £9,000 per year. While it 
demonstrates Mr D would be left with a sum in excess of £161,000 at age 99, Im mindful its 
based on an assumed average growth rate of 6.96% after accounting for inflation. And          
I dont think that level of sustained growth can reasonably be expected over such a long time 
- I think projecting that level of growth over such a long period of time was very optimistic. 
The target income figure used, seemingly as this is what Mr D felt he might need, is nearly 
the same income his OPS wouldve provided him with at age 65 if hed also taken TFC. And 
Im not sure why it would be suitable for Mr D to give up a guaranteed amount just to target 
obtaining a similar figure with increased risk.
Furthermore, KLO hasnt provided any stress test models showing the impact of poor 
returns or market instability over time and how that might impact Mr Ds income or remaining 
fund. And the forecast shows that if the average return on the fund was 6.14% - a figure 
which I still think is above what could reasonably be expected year on year given Mr Ds 
attitude to risk  the fund would be depleted at age 99. So, Im not persuaded the cashflow 
model demonstrates Mr D would be better off by transferring out. And, if returns were around 
the middle projection rate, the funds were at risk of running out much sooner. This was a 
significant risk that ought to have been accounted for.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the OPS wasnt in Mr Ds best interests. Of course 
financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as KLO has argued 
in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needsIt's evident Mr D couldnt take his OPS benefits flexibly. And I recognise that although he 
could choose to take TFC and a reduced annual pension form age 65, he had to take those 
benefits at the same time. But I dont think Mr D actually required flexibility in retirement. 
This is because, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to 
access his TFC earlier than his normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested 
until a later date. While it was noted that Mr D wanted TFC to repay his mortgage, I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest he needed to do so at the time of the advice. Theres nothing 
to suggest Mr D was behind on, or struggling with, his repayments and I note he only had 
five years left until his mortgage was repaid in full, some five years before he expected to 
retire. 
And while its noted that Mr D wanted TFC to repay his debts, he only had one outstanding 
debt of £5,000. And I cant see that KLO discussed with Mr D why he felt it necessary to 
repay it in full at the time in the way I would have expected it to, rather than waiting until he 
turned 65 and could do so from TFC from his OPS. Based on the information gathered at the 
time, Mr D had a net disposable income of approximately £1,100 per month after 
expenditure. I cant see that KLO discussed considering using these funds to repay his debt 
sooner or saving them as an alternative way of generating the emergency fund he was 
looking for or to contribute to holidays. And it didnt take into account that hed be freeing up 
a further £460 per month after repaying his mortgage in five years time, which could also be 
put towards meeting such objectives. 
Mr D had another SIPP and while I recognise KLO said the provider was in administration so 
it was unable to get information about this at the time, I cant see it discussed with Mr D that 
he could use any existing value within this flexibly once able to obtain information on it, as an 
alternative to transferring and giving up his OPS benefits.  
In summary, I dont think there was any pressing need recorded in any of the documents 
KLO has provided, just a vague wish for flexibility in case Mr D later wanted it. And I think if 
asked, most people would say flexibility is desirable, but that doesnt mean it was a genuine 
objective for Mr D at the time. And had KLO impressed on Mr D that taking his TFC early to 
repay affordable debts would only service to reduce the funds available to him at retirement, 
and that they were at risk of running out if investment returns were lower than expected,        
I dont think Mr D wouldve insisted on transferring to have that flexibility.
I also cant see evidence that Mr D had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. According to the information gathered by KLO, Mr D said he needed £9,000 per 
year in retirement, but theres no calculation of his retirement income needs, more likely than 
not because it was still eight years until he could retire. And, according to the TVAS, Mr D 
couldve taken an annual pension of £13,350 from age 65 or £9,614 per year plus TFC of 
£64,096, which met his recorded objectives. So, Im satisfied Mr D could have met his 
income needs in retirement through the OPS at 65. 
Death benefits 
Of course, when asked, most people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when 
they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a SIPP was likely an attractive 
feature to Mr D. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D 
might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his existing scheme to a SIPP because of 
this, the priority here was to advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement provision. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think KLO explored 
to what extent Mr D was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for 
higher death benefits. As Ive said above, Mr Ds funds were at real risk of depletion if he lived a long life and/or investment returns were poor, so transferring his OPS didnt 
necessarily achieve the increased death benefits he thought it would.
And, in any event, KLO should not have encouraged Mr D to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a SIPP over his security in retirement. And, if Mr D genuinely wanted 
to leave a legacy for his child, which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his 
pension fund remained on his death, I think KLO shouldve instead explored taking out 
further life insurance. I appreciate that the suitability report mentioned a whole of life policy 
with a sum assured equal to the current OPS transfer value  this was discounted by Mr D 
because of the cost £310 per month. But I dont think that this was a balanced way of 
presenting this option to Mr D.
Basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Ds pension benefits essentially assumed that 
he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately,    
Mr D wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his children, which would be a lot 
less than this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting 
point ought to have been to ask Mr D how much he would ideally like to leave to his child, 
and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely 
to be cheaper to provide.
I also think KLO shouldve explored the alternative ways of generating a fund for Mr D to 
pass on to his son. For example, Mr D couldve been encouraged to start saving his surplus 
income (which would increase significantly after the mortgage was repaid) to build a fund 
that couldve been held in trust for his son. Furthermore, if Mr D took TFC from the OPS at 
age 65, he couldve gifted part or all of this to his son immediately or reinvested it for his 
benefit  I cant see that he wouldve had any other need for this sum at 65 given his debts 
wouldve been cleared already. There is also the matter of Mr Ds other SIPP  although the 
value of this was unknown, Mr D couldve nominated his son as sole beneficiary.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. And I dont think that he needed to 
transfer his OPS in order to provide extra death benefits for his son.
Summary 
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a SIPP 
would have sounded like attractive features to Mr D. But KLO wasnt there to just transact 
what Mr D might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what 
Mr D needed and recommend what was in his best interests. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr D was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr D shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to repay debts that were affordable, and the potential for higher death benefits 
wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his OPS. So, I think KLO shouldve 
advised Mr D to remain in his OPS.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr D would've gone ahead anyway, against KLOs 
advice. Having done so, Im not persuaded Mr D wouldve insisted on transferring out of the 
OPS, against KLOs advice. I say this because Mr D was an inexperienced investor with an 
ATR that was noted as medium and this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement 
provision. So, if KLO had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of his OPS, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that.Im not persuaded that Mr Ds concerns about his death benefits were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If KLO had 
explained that Mr D could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr D would have insisted on 
transferring out of the OPS.
In light of the above, I think KLO should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. While KLOs said it 
doesnt think Mr D has been caused a financial loss because of the growth his SIPP has 
experienced since the transfer, Mr D was entitled to bring his complaint to our service. And 
given Im upholding it for the above reasons, I think its fair and reasonable for KLO to 
undertake an up to date redress calculation in the way Ive set out below.
KLO should also pay Mr D £250 compensation to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him by this matter, considering hes now only a few years away 
from his intended retirement age. I think this is a fair and reasonable amount in the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would have 
likely remained in his OPS if suitable advice had been given. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
Mr D has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr D. 
KLO must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.Although Mr D took TFC at age 55 and he has made some smaller withdrawals since, Mr D 
hasnt yet retired. And I think he only made those withdrawals by virtue of the advice he was 
given and because of the position the advice put him in. Had he been given suitable advice,  
I dont think he would have taken his OPS benefits any earlier than age 65. So 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
KLO may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date 
KLO receives notification of his/her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes KLO to 
pay Mr D.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If KLO deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. KLO should give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect KLO to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
KLO should also pay Mr D £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him by the unsuitable advice. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensationrequires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that KLO 
pays the balance. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require KLO 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
KLO Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require KLO 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
KLO Financial Services Ltd pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts any final decision, the money award becomes binding on KLO Financial 
Services Ltd.
 
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman