DRN-2372555
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Greenlight Credit Ltd trading as Varooma lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in November 2020 that I summarise 
below.
Mr C was given two logbook loans by Varooma in May and November 2018. The loans were 
secured against a vehicle that he owned.
The first loan taken in May 2018 was for £500 and was due to be repaid in 12 monthly 
instalments of around £72.
The second loan was taken around six months later in November. The principal amount 
borrowed was £850 which was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of around £103. I 
understand this second loan was partly used to pay off the balance of the first loan.
Mr C complains that Varooma shouldnt have given him either loan and that he had a very 
low credit score and was suffering from poor mental health and PTSD at the time.
During the course of this complaint, Varooma made an offer to Mr C which he initially 
accepted but then later decided to reject. So the complaint was re-opened and it was passed 
to me to resolve matters.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Varooma needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
I said that Varooma was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his 
loans - not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation.
I had seen only limited information about the checks that Varooma carried out before it gave 
the first loan to Mr C.  I thought its likely that the checks Varooma did before agreeing to the 
first loan were reasonable and proportionate - given what Mr C had told Varooma about his 
circumstances, and the amounts he needed to repay in relation to the disposable income 
hed declared. I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for Varooma to ask Mr C for the 
amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before 
agreeing the first loan. So Im wasnt intending to uphold the complaint about the first loan.
Varooma told us it no longer holds the credit report it carried out when Mr C applied for his 
second loan. It says this type of lending is often made available to borrowers with low credit 
scores and that the loan was affordable at the time. But as Id explained, Varooma was 
required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments 
being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make 
their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because the 
relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular 
the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows 
that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.
Overall, I didnt think Varoomas checks went far enough when Mr C applied for his second 
loan. And I didnt think the lender did enough to check that the lending was sustainable 
before lending to him for the second time.
I accepted that this was still the early stages of Varoomas lending relationship with Mr C. So 
in some circumstances, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But Mr C had to maintain larger repayments with 18 instalments over an extended period of 
time. Mr C was also returning to re-finance his first loan only halfway through the first loans 
term, and he was borrowing an increased amount which he needed to repay over a longer 
term. Varooma viewed a summary of Mr Cs bank account on a mobile phone. But this 
appears to have been in order to satisfy itself about Mr Cs income only. Mr C didnt tell 
Varooma about his financial problems at the time, but in the circumstances I would have 
expected Varooma to want to learn more about Mr Cs true financial position before it agreed 
to the second loan - in order to satisfy itself that he could repay his second loan sustainably, 
over an extended period.
So as well as asking Mr C about his income and expenditure, I thought Varooma should 
have carried out more detailed and independent checks into Mr Cs financial circumstances 
before agreeing to the second loan  for example by asking to see his bank statements.
Mr C provided us with copies of his bank statements leading up to his application for a 
second loan, so I could determine what better checks might have shown Varooma at that 
time. And I considered this information in light of what Ive set out above. Of course, different 
checks might show different things. But I thought if Varooma had carried out what I consider 
to be proportionate checks, I thought its likely it would have discovered more about Mr Cs 
financial position. In particular I thought it more likely than not Varooma would have realised 
that Mr C was regularly gambling considerable amounts of money. Mr Cs bank statements 
show a large number of payments leaving his bank account via an online financial service 
(which Mr C confirmed as being primarily his channel for gambling), as well as other 
payments frequently being made to online betting and gaming companies.
As Id already explained, Varooma was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably 
make his loan repayments. I think its likely that with better checks Varooma would 
reasonably have concluded that Mr C was having serious difficulties managing his finances 
and that he was most likely borrowing as a result of his gambling  and would also most 
likely need to borrow elsewhere to repay his loan from Varooma. I thought  Varooma would 
have realised that it was unlikely that Mr C would be able to sustainably repay his second 
loan. So it ought reasonably to have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend any further 
to him. So I said I was intending to uphold Mr Cs complaint about his second loan.I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Mr C and Varooma both 
told us that they had nothing further to add by way of evidence about this complaint. 
Varooma also sent us its calculation of the refund due to Mr C, based on my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding so promptly to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any 
further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about his first loan. But I dont think Varooma should have 
provided him with the second loan. So Varooma should put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on the 
second loan that shouldnt have been provided to him. 
So Varooma should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the second loan and treat all the 
payments Mr C made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Cs loan account results in his having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Varooma should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Varooma 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr C, bearing in mind its 
obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
I understand that Varooma might have already returned the logbook to Mr C, but if it 
has not done this, it should cancel the bill of sale and return the V5 document to him 
once any outstanding capital has been repaid.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the 
second loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to deduct tax from this interest. Varooma 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I partly uphold this complaint and direct Greenlight Credit 
Limited trading as Varooma to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman