DRN-3381140
The complaint
Ms S complains Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has unfairly charges 
her end of contract damage charges 
What happened
I issued an earlier provision decision on this matter and for clarity I repeat it here.
On 31 January 2018, Ms S entered into a contract hire agreement with MBFS for a brand-
new vehicle. The agreement was for an initial rental payment of £1,161.58 followed by 35 
monthly payments of £193.60. 
The agreement came to end on 7 February 2021. The car was collected by BCA, MBFSs 
collection agents on 8 February 2021.
On 18 February 2021, MBFS sent Ms S an invoice for damages outside of fair wear and tear 
totalling £752.40 and unhappy with this, she complained. Ms S explained she was aware of 
damage to the rear door, as a motorcycle had fallen over onto the vehicle, but she 
adamantly refuted the other damages, having checked the vehicle over carefully before 
collection. She also queried why a congestion charge had been acquired in an area the 
vehicle shouldnt have bene in after collection and where the vehicle had been kept 
overnight as it hadnt been taken straight to the inspection site.
On 19 April 2021, MBFS issued its final response. I didnt uphold Ms S complaint, stating the 
inspection report showed damage outside MBFS Vehicle Return Standard (VRS) and BCA 
had confirmed this was present at collection. It did, however, later acknowledge the 
congestion charge was not Ms Ss responsibility and refunded the cost.
Dissatisfied, Ms S brought the complaint to this service. She asked for all the charges except 
the rear door to be waived.
An investigator looked into things for Ms S.  She accepted no photographic evidence was 
taken at collection and that there were no measurements available on the photographs taken 
at inspection to determine the exact extent of the damage. But she felt the as there were 
more than three dents on the offside/rear/quarter panel and a dent exceeding he permitted 
size on the nearside rear door, these exceeded fair wear and tear. She noted Ms S accepted 
the damage to the offside rear door. 
She reached her view on a balance of probabilities as the vehicle had been driven over 
22,000 miles by Ms S and only 94 miles be the collection driver, although she accepted the 
vehicle had been kept overnight at a private address before being taken to the inspection 
site she felt the damages were more likely than not present beforehand and so she didnt 
uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Ms S vehemently disagreed. She disputed the damage, other than that of the offside rear 
door was present. She questioned where the vehicle had been driven to and from and where 
it had been stored overnight. She had been wrongly charged for the congestion charge and 
this has subsequently been withdrawn by MBFS. She asked for an ombudsman review.
My provisional findings
I reached a different view to that of the investigator and issued a provisional view to allow 
both parties the opportunity to provide further submissions for my consideration before I 
issue my final decision.
I said I was very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I take account of the relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I 
consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case, is a regulated consumer credit agreement  therefore this 
service can consider a complaint relating to it. There are various rules and protections about 
how hire purchase agreements operate, including those set out in the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA) The CCA is therefore relevant law in this complaint. 
I explained that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of 
it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Ms S said the vehicle was collected from her home address at around 15.20. This is 
supported by the photograph of the mileage clock at around 15.14. The collection note 
states a time of 17.52, which cannot be correct, not least because the congestion charge 
was recorded at 15.55. The collection notes also didnt identify any damage to the car at the 
point of collection. I said I appreciated that MBFS said this was a health and safety check but 
as the collection driver didnt take the vehicle directly to the depot, it raised concerns about 
where and when the damage occurred, especially as in this case, Ms S disputes all but the 
damage to the rear nearside door.
MBFS has said it has checked Google Maps and the additional mileage is consistent with 
the collection driver taking the car to his home address overnight and then to the depot. It 
confirmed there has been no personal use.
I said I had two concerns about this information. Firstly, I checked Google Maps and looked 
carefully at the route from Ms Ss home to the postcode area given as the location for 
overnight storage. The most direct route does not account for the location of the congestion 
charge. In fact, for the vehicle to be in the vicinity of the congestion charge, the driver has 
taken a detour from the quickest route and notably one without tolls to one of a sort of loop 
the loop that took the vehicle into a congestion charge area. I said I couldnt see a plausible 
explanation for such a direction. My second concern was that there was no evidence as to 
the how secure the overnight storage was before the vehicles onwards journey.I said if the collection agent needs to take a vehicle from collection to an overnight stop at a 
location other than the depot, I would have thought it prudent to complete a collection 
inspection precisely, so this sort of dispute does not occur. 
I said on the evidence I have seen I couldnt fairly say where or when the damage occurred. 
I said I wasnt of the view that on balance of miles driven the damage was caused prior to 
collection. There is nothing to suggest the damage to the vehicle has corrosion or any other 
marking to suggest it occurred at an earlier stage. The number of discrepancies on the 
collection note, the incorrect collection time, the subsequent congestion charge in area the 
vehicle did not need to be in, the overnight storage at a private location before the depot and 
Ms Ss persuasive testimony lead me on balance to have concern about how and why the 
damage occurred, and so I said I didnt find it fair or reasonable to hold Ms S responsible for 
these damages.
Secondary to this, I said I looked carefully at the photographic evidence provided by BCA 
and I wasnt persuaded from the evidence that the damage outside of the rear door, already 
accepted by Ms S, falls outside of the guidelines for fair wear and tear. There are no clear 
measurements of the damages listed and the photographs are very reflective making
the damage itself difficult to assess.
I said, in my view, Ms S should pay for the damage to the rear nearside door which she has 
accepted and MBFS should waive all other charges and should any adverse information be 
recorded on Ms Ss credit file, it should be removed.
I gave both parties time to make any further submissions of any new evidence they wished 
me to consider before making my final decision.
MBFS asked for clarification of which charges they should waive as there are two charges 
detailed on the invoice pertaining to damage to the rear doors, specifically damage to the 
nearside and damage to the offside.
Ms S reiterated her understanding that the only damage she accepted was damage to the 
nearside rear door which was caused when a stationary motorbike fell against the nearside 
rear door.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their comments. From what I have received I havent seen any 
information to cause me to reach a different conclusion and so it follows I have reached the 
same conclusion as that of my earlier provisional decision.
For clarification my provisional decision referred specifically to the damages outside of those 
accepted by Ms S. I said that secondary to Ms Ss comments I had also looked closely at the 
photographic evidence and I hadnt been able to see any evidence that the damages fell 
outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines. This was in part due to poor lighting and 
reflection within the photographs making any damage difficult to assess. On this basis I said 
all charges other than that of the rear nearside door should be waived and a new invoice for 
the accepted damage which amounts to £209.54 raised.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) to:
Issue a new invoice for the damage to the nearside rear door (dent) for £209.54
Waive all other charges
Remove any adverse information from Ms Ss credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman