DRN-3043093
The complaint
Mr C complained about the advice he received from Wesleyan Assurance Society 
(Wesleyan) to take out a free-standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan. He 
says if hed been given adequate information during the sale about his options, he would 
have bought added years in his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS).
Mr C is being assisted with his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). And
both Wesleyan and the CMC have actuaries working with them to resolve this matter.
However, for ease of reading the decision, Ill refer to all representations and arguments
as being raised by either Wesleyan or Mr C.
What happened
In December 1994, Mr C was advised by Wesleyan to start contributing to an FSAVC plan. 
At the time, Mr C was a member of his employers OPS. The FSAVC plan commenced with 
Mr C making a monthly contribution of £50 (gross). The last contribution was paid to the 
FSAVC plan in October 2016.
In 2004, while still making contributions to the FSAVC plan, Mr C contracted to buy added 
years through his employers OPS. Mr C paid a total of 3.27% to buy 3 years 63 days, which 
was the maximum number of added years he was able to purchase, taking him up to the 40 
year service limit.
In 2017, Mr C complained to Wesleyan about the sale of the FSAVC plan. In summary, he 
complained that:
The FSAVC plan was not suitable for his needs and as a result of being mis-sold, 
hes suffered a financial loss;
The full risks, implications, and alternatives in respect of the FSAVC plan were not 
fully and properly explained. And he wasnt provided with a full or descriptive 
comparison of benefits between his in-house scheme and the FSAVC plan;
He was unaware that the FSAVC plan had higher charges and he shouldve been 
advised to purchase added years through his employers scheme.
Wesleyan reviewed the complaint. In its final response it explained that, having considered 
the sales paperwork and the information Mr C had provided in his FSAVC questionnaire, it 
wasnt satisfied that hed been given adequate information during the sale. So it was 
upholding the complaint. And it said that it would be forwarding Mr Cs file to its actuaries for 
a loss assessment to be completed on an added years basis.
A further letter was issued in 2018 after the loss assessment had been completed. The letter 
confirmed the following:
Over the period of liability (up to May 2004), the total contributions paid to the 
FSAVC plan represented 1.37% of pensionable pay. If 1.37% of pensionable pay 
had instead been directed to added years, Mr C could have purchased added 
years of 1 year 348 days up to age 60 if working full time throughout.
In June 2004, Mr C started an added years contract of 3 years 63 days for a 
contribution rate of 3.27% of pensionable pay. This was the maximum that he 
was permitted, taking his total pensionable service at age 60 up to the 
maximum of 40 years.
Had an added years contract for 1 year 348 days been in place since 1995, Mr C 
would have been limited in 2004 (because of the maximum allowable) to additional 
added years of 1 years 80 days at a cost of 1.25% of pensionable pay. The total 
cost would therefore have been 2.62% from 2004 for the maximum added years of 
3 years 63 days. Mr C paid a higher cost of 3.27% - 2.62% = 0.65% of pensionable 
pay over the period from June 2004.
Mr C has not lost the opportunity to purchase additional years of service up to the 
maximum allowable. However, the delay in contracting to purchase additional 
years of pensionable service has caused him to pay a higher contribution rate 
than he would otherwise have done since June 2004.
Contributions that Mr C could have directed to an added years contract from June 
1995 until June 2004 have instead been paid into the FSAVC policy. The part of 
the FSAVC fund value that is attributable to contributions that he could have paid 
to an added years contract is a gain that offsets the loss due to the additional 
added years contributions that he is paying subsequently.
Calculations completed as at 1 July 2018 determined a loss of £6,030. This was adjusted 
to reflect tax that Mr C is expected to pay in retirement. Wesleyan offered Mr C a cash 
sum of £4,284.61.
Mr C didnt agree with the methodology Wesleyan had used in its loss assessment so he
referred the complaint to our service for review. 
In summary Mr C has said that Wesleyan's actuaries have used the value of his own 
contributions in the purchase of added years to offset the loss caused by the advice to 
purchase the FSAVC. On another case - where the actuaries are assisting Mr Cs CMC - the 
actuaries have said that that this is not allowed under the FSAVC Guidance. 
The loss calculation period is clearly set out in guidance and is stated to be:
The period for loss assessment will end on the earlier of:
1) the 6th April after the investor stopped paying into the FSA VC policy, and
2) the date the investor started paying into the in-house A VC scheme.
Starting to buy added years counts as joining the in-house A VC scheme and
so will end the period of loss assessment.
If the investor starts to buy added years but also continues to pay into the FSAVC 
policy, I believe that the period of loss assessment would end when the investor 
starts to buy added years (unless the investor can show that the insurer/adviser gave 
some subsequent advice, e.g. in connection with a subsequent FSA VC premium 
increment).
Mr C says the value of the benefit is outside the loss calculation period and should not be 
applied. Wesleyan is incorrect to state that the loss is simply the differential in the cost of 
purchase caused by deferring the start date of the added years. In reality its effectively 
deducting the added years purchased.My provisional findings
I reviewed the complaint and issued a provisional decision in February 2022. My provisional 
findings are set out below.  
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Before explaining my provisional findings,
Id like to take this opportunity to apologise to both Mr C and Wesleyan for the delay in the
complaint being reviewed.
Wesleyan has upheld the complaint on the basis that the FSAVC plan was mis-sold. And it 
considers that, had he been given adequate information during the sale, Mr C wouldve 
chosen to buy added years in the OPS in 1994 (albeit from his next birthday in June 1995), 
rather than taking out the FSAVC plan. As both Wesleyan and Mr C are in agreement on 
this matter, my decision focuses on what Wesleyan needs to do to put matters right; I dont 
intend to comment on the sale of the FSAVC plan and whether I agree that Mr C wouldve 
chosen added years in 1994 as these matters no longer seem to be in dispute.
In considering what needs to be done to put matters right, Ive taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory rules, guidance and good industry practice.
This service doesnt have the resource to check the actual calculation that is in dispute. 
Instead, Ive considered the calculation methodology Wesleyan has used. Having done 
this, Im currently of the view that Wesleyans calculation methodology is unfair and so Im 
minded to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
The FSAVC Review Model Guidance and Review Bulletin 3
Following concerns about mis-selling, the regulator at that time, told businesses to carry 
out a review of some FSAVC plans sold between 29 April 1988 and 15 August 1999. The 
main aim was to review the FSAVC plans of consumers who might have lost matching 
contributions or subsidies that the employer wouldve paid, had an in-house AVC plan 
been started instead. The sale of Mr Cs plan didnt fall within the review because the OPS 
didnt match or subsidise payments to its in-house AVC arrangement.
However, when we uphold a consumer's complaint that they shouldve been advised to 
take out the in-house AVCs instead of FSAVCs, we do generally tell the business to pay 
compensation in accordance with the FSAVC review guidance, even if the FSAVC plan 
didnt fall within the scope of the review.
It should be noted that, in terms of calculating loss, this guidance was predominately 
focused on consumers that wouldve joined their employers in-house defined contribution 
AVC scheme. The guidance provided limit information for calculating loss for consumers 
where it had been decided that they wouldve bought added years.
An additional bulletin was issued in January 2001  FSAVC Review Bulletin 3. In this the
regulator said that:
TREATMENT OF POTENTIAL DEFINED BENEFIT CASES
()(Model Guidance, Section 6  Loss assessment) The response paper to 
Consultation Paper 27 (published May 2000) explained the use of benchmark 
indices for simplified redress calculations but recognised that firms should be 
allowed to use actual performance to establish whether a loss has been suffered. This will avoid redress being paid where no loss has been suffered. (Response 
Paper 27, paragraph 73).
This principle applies to defined benefit cases as to all others, and firms may test 
to see if there is any actual or potential financial loss. (Defined benefit case 
means one where the case has failed compliance, or the firm has conceded 
compliance, and the firm has established that the investor would have chosen the 
defined benefit option).
Firms should:
establish the fund value to be used for loss assessment;
consider whether any other firms are involved; and
determine the relevant period for loss assessment in accordance with the 
Model Guidance
Then, in assessing whether there is any actual or potential loss, the calculation 
should mirror that required for the Pensions Review with the exception that the 
assumption for future annual salary increases should be RPI + 2% (except where 
firms can demonstrate that this assumption is inappropriate). For details see 
paragraphs 6.18.5 and 6.18.6. It is not possible to conduct a simplified loss 
assessment for defined benefit cases. Firms should conduct a full loss 
assessment, in almost exactly the same way as they would for the Pensions 
Review. That is, in defined benefit cases firms have the option either:
to concede loss; or
to use actual performance in the loss calculation.
Firms cannot use benchmark indices in the calculation. Where, in defined benefit 
cases, the loss calculation indicates that there is an actual or prospective financial 
loss, or the firm concedes loss, firms should proceed either to causation 
assessment or to redress and settlement
While acknowledging that the model guidance and subsequent bulletin are useful, I 
dont believe strictly applying them is appropriate in the particular circumstances of this 
case.
Mr Cs FSAVC plan didnt fall within the initial scope of the review for which the guidance 
was intended. And the guidance wasnt written to address every potential scenario, 
particularly those arising over 20 years after the guidance was issued, where action 
taken to mitigate loss was taken many years before the complaint was made. And 
crucially, theres nothing in the Dispute Resolution rules (DISP)  the rules in the FCA 
handbook that set out how complaints are to be dealt with by firms and the ombudsman 
service  which stipulates that this guidance must be applied to all FSAVC complaints 
being raised now, that didnt fall within the initial scope of the review.
Thats not to say the guidance and bulletin arent relevant at all; they do still provide a useful 
guide, particularly when we consider complaints about mis-sold FSAVC cases where its 
been determined that the consumer wouldve joined their employers in-house defined 
contribution AVC scheme. However, in this case I consider departing from a strict 
interpretation of the guidance is necessary in order to provide Mr C with fair compensation.
I think its important to explain that when a consumer has lost out financially as a result of 
something the business has done wrong, Id generally expect the consumer to be put back into the position they would have been in, had the business not made the error. This is also 
the case when considering Mr Cs complaint.
The bulletin referenced above states that after establishing the fund value, considering 
causation and determining the relevant period for loss assessment, the calculation should 
mirror that required for the Pensions Review. The Pension Review Guidance has been 
updated since it was initially issued. The Finalised Guidance issued by 2017 and
updated in March 2021  commonly referred to as FG17/9, states that:
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit
pension transfers ()
The standard approach to calculating redress
2. Where a firm or adviser has failed to give compliant and proper advice, or has 
committed some other breach of the relevant requirements, the basic objective of 
redress is to put the customer, so far as possible, into the position they would 
have been in if the non-compliant or unsuitable advice had not been given or 
the breach had not occurred {my emphasis}
So while Ive considered the above model guidance and bulletin when thinking about fair 
compensation, my main focus has been to put Mr C, as far as possible, in the position he 
would now be in, had he bought added years in 1994 instead of taking out the FSAVC plan;
he shouldnt be placed in better position and equally, he shouldnt be worse off.
How many added years should the calculation be based on?
Wesleyan has calculated that Mr C paid the equivalent of 1.37% of his pensionable pay to 
his FSAVC plan between 1995 and 2004, when he joined the added years arrangement.
When the FSAVC plan started, if Mr C had paid 1.37% of his salary to the added years 
arrangement , this would have secured him 1 year and 348 days added years at a rate of 
0.70% per year if hed maintained payments until age 60.
Mr C is due to receive 3 years and 63 days as a result of the added years he purchased in 
the OPS. This was the maximum Mr C could have purchased to take him to 40 years 
service. So hes not lost the opportunity to buy added years. However, as explained in 
Wesleyans letter, over the course of the added years contract, Mr C will pay £19,309 more 
for the 1 year and 348 days added years he could have bought if hed not taken out his 
FSVAC plan.
I understand that Mr C has concerns that Wesleyan has used the value of the added years 
the above excess contributions secured, to offset the loss caused by the advice to 
purchase the FSAVC. And he says that Wesleyan is incorrect to state that the loss is 
simply the difference in the cost of purchase caused by deferring the start date of the 
added years. Mr C says that, in reality, Wesleyan is effectively deducting the added years
purchased.
However, if Wesleyan fails to take account in its calculation of the full added years Mr C
bought, it will likely leave him with a benefit equivalent of more than the maximum level of
service he could have had. This is a position that Mr C couldnt ever have found himself in,
had he taken added years initially. And the fact that Mr C has taken action to mitigate his
loss by contracting to buy added years from 2004, needs to be taken into account.
The FSAVC model guidance wasnt written with the intention that it would address every
scenario that arises. And for the reasons explained, I dont believe strictly applying theguidance in this case is appropriate, all the added years Mr C purchased need to be
factored into the redress correctly.
I dont think Wesleyans approach is unreasonable. Im satisfied that this approach places
Mr C in the position hed be in now but for Wesleyans error. Its ensuring he hasnt paid
more for the 1 year and 348 days his FSAVC contributions between 1995 and 2004 could
have secured.
Should the calculation be bought up to date?
Ive thought about whether this calculation should be rerun to bring it up to date. Its not
unusual for us to do this where a significant time has passed since the calculation was run
and the complaint hasnt been settled. Or we may ask a business to pay interest on any loss
identified to account for the consumer having been without access to these fund.
In the case of Mr C, although the calculation was run on an added years basis, it was only to
determine the difference between the cost of deferring the purchase of added years. The
purpose of the calculation wasnt to determine the cost of replacing any added years that
Mr C had lost the opportunity to purchase as hes has purchased the maximum. So I believe
any changes to the FCA assumptions that have happened since the calculation was
completed, in particular the changes in March 2021, regarding CPI index assumptions, are
unlikely to have a significant impact on the calculation. So Im currently minded to say that,
because I dont think the methodology Wesleyan has used here is unfair, there is no need
for the calculation to be rerun.
However, the calculation had determined that, when adjusted for tax, Mr C had suffered a
loss of £4221. As Mr C has been without the use of these funds, Im minded to ask
Wesleyan to bring this amount up to date using 8% simple interest. This seems to be in line
with what it had suggested in its offer letter when is said that Interest should be added to the
above redress, calculated at Court rate to settlement date.
FSAVC contributions from December 1994 to June 1995 and 2004 to 2016
Although, Im minded to say that, other than adding interest to the above loss, Wesleyan
doesnt need to take any further action in respect of the added years aspect of this
complaint, Im conscious that it hasnt taken account of the contributions Mr C paid to his
FSAVC plan after he joined the added years arrangement in 2004.
Mr C couldnt have joined the added years arrangement until his birthday in 1995 so there
were a few months before this when he was making contributions to his FSAVC plan. And
he continued making contributions of £50 per month after he joined the added years
arrangement.
Wesleyan acknowledges that it mis-sold the FSAVC plan and that Mr C wasnt given
adequate information during the sale. Its satisfied that he would have opted for added
years had he been given the correct information. However, had Mr C been made aware
he could also contribute to the in house AVC plan  with likely lower charges than the
FSAVC - as well as purchasing the maximum number added years, I think its likely that he
would have opted to direct the contributions paid before June 1995 and after 2004 to the 
inhouse AVC. Ive not seen any evidence that Mr C wouldnt have had the headroom to 
make these payments to the in-house AVC. My understanding is that Mr C could have 
contributed a maximum of 9% of his salary to both in the in-house AVC and added years 
arrangements.
I do acknowledge that Wesleyan has previously said, on another case, that when themaximum number of added years is being purchased, the cap for in-house AVC
contributions is around 2% or 3%. The information Ive seen suggests that Mr Cs
contribution of £50 per month would have been around 2.5% of his salary in 1994/95 and
less than 1% after 2002. So I think its likely that Mr C would have had the headroom to
direct these contributions to the in-house AVC. As such, in my final decision, I intend to
direct Wesleyan to carry out a charges only calculation on these contributions.
Responses to my provisional findings
Wesleyan responded to my provisional decision and confirmed that it had no further 
comments. 
Mr Cs representative provided further submissions which Ive summarised below. 
Wesleyan is using Mr Cs own purchase of added years to offset its liability. Mr Cs 
representative does not believe this compensates Mr C fairly and it considers it 
breaks the guidance issued by the regulator. No other firm adopts this approach and 
nor has the FSCS.  This is a change in approach by Wesleyan as it hasnt always 
used this methodology. Wesleyan is wrong to say that the use of Mr Cs own 
purchase of added years, even if this is outside of the loss calculation period, can 
be taken into account as a client cannot be compensated to a higher degree than 
they would have been in, had they purchased added years from outset. Mr C 
completely agrees that a client cannot and should not be over-compensated, but this 
is not the case.
There are two sets of contributions to the pensions  the FSAVC and the added 
years contributions, however, Wesleyans methodology shows zero difference in 
outcome. This is clearly wrong and Wesleyan should not deduct the value of the 
FSAVC, and so its loss is understated. It appears that, for benefits, Wesleyan is 
modelling the Notional Scenario against the Actual Scenario. However, for 
contributions, its modelling the same Notional Scenario to added years, but against 
the Actual Scenario. Consequently, the difference in benefits is the value of the 
FSAVC, but the difference in contributions is actually higher than Wesleyan 
calculates so its loss is understated.
Wesleyan is mis-using the information to manipulate a no loss scenario  and the 
most obvious error is the deduction of the value of the FSAVC to produce the zero 
difference in output.
Mr C is worse off, compared to buying added years from 1994 (1995), because all of 
the added years (3 years and 63 days) cost more from June 2004 than they would 
have cost from June 1995  and Wesleyans calculations only seek to compensate 
Mr C for the higher cost of just 1 year and 348 days out of those 3 years and 63 
days. So all the added years Mr C purchased are not being factored into the 
redress correctly. And 3 years and 63 days of added years, if purchased from June 
1995, wouldve cost only 2.22% of salary  i.e. initially £44.80 per month, which is 
actually less than the FSAVC contributions that were set up at that time of £50 per 
month.Even if it is decided to restrict the level of contributions being considered paid to 
added years to only 1.37%, then although those contributions would buy 1 year 348 
days of added years if paid from June 1995, they would only buy 1 year 120 days of 
added years if paid from June 2004. So the redress calculations should then allow for 
the benefit value of the missing 228 days of added years (i.e., the missing pension & 
missing lump sum from only receiving 1 year 120 days of added years instead of 
from 1 year and 348 days of added years)  and Wesleyans calculations do not 
include any valuation of the benefit value of added years (they only calculate the cost 
of added years).
In any case, the 1.37% contribution rate is too low, because it excludes the FSAVC 
premiums paid before June 1995, even though the FSAs FSAVC Review Model 
Guidance requires that Firms should normally carry out a loss assessment in 
respect of the period from the date at which they gave the advice to purchase the 
FSAVC ... firms may use the FSAVC policy date or date of first premium instead 
where they are satisfied that these dates are normally a reasonable proxy for the 
date of advice.
My side letter to both parties updating redress
After reviewing the responses to my provisional decision, I issued a further letter to both 
parties explaining that I was minded to make a change to the redress. I also clarified why I 
wasnt asking Wesleyan to calculate the benefit value that Mr C considers should be 
included in the calculation. My letter is set out below.
I think its important to explain that while I have taken account of the FSAVC review 
guidance, I dont believe that its useful in this case when trying to put Mr C back in the 
position he would be in now if he had taken added years in 1995.
I acknowledge what the FCA has said about the period for loss assessment, which is set out 
in the FSAVC review guidance. But I would also highlight that it has said that it doesnt get 
involved in individual disputes; thats a matter for the Financial Ombudsman Service if things 
cant be resolved between the parties involved.
There is nothing in the Financial Ombudsman Services rules that states that the FSAVC 
review guidance must be applied to all complaints that are upheld regarding mis-sold 
FSAVC plans.
Our rules state that I must award fair redress and in order to that in this case, I consider 
departing from the above guidance is appropriate.
I also note what Mr C has said about the methodology used by the FSCS. However, the 
FSCS and our service operate under a different set of rules. The FSCSs rules stipulate that 
the guidance must be applied, unless it considers departing from it is appropriate in the 
circumstances of the complaint. However, no corresponding rule exists for the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. I also think its important to note that the FSCS would need to 
consider the relevant time limits and the merits of the complaint, before considering what 
redress, if any, is due. And even in those circumstances, the FSCS can depart from the 
FSAVC guidance if it feels its necessary in order to provide fair redress.
I think what Im proposing below, puts Mr C in the position he would be in now, if he hadnt 
taken the FSAVC plan out and instead had bought added years in 1995.
How many added years should the calculation be based on?
At the moment, Wesleyan has calculated that Mr C paid the equivalent of 1.37% of his 
pensionable pay to his FSAVC plan between 1995 and 2004, when he joined the added years arrangement. Its calculated that this would have secured him 1 year 348 days added 
years, at a rate 1995 and maintained payments until age 60.
When Mr C started his FSAVC plan, he contributed £50 pm. The plan started in December 
1994. However, if Mr C had taken an added years contract instead of the FSAVC, he 
wouldnt have been able to start the added years contract until his next birthday in June 
1995. For this reason, Im satisfied that this is when the added years part of the calculation 
should start. The contributions paid before this date, are accounted for in the charges only 
calculation.
Based on the information set out in Wesleyans calculation, it looks like Mr C was earning 
£24,211.26 that this time. So £50 pm, would have been around 2.47% of his salary. At the 
rate of 0.70% per added years, this would have secured over three and half years added 
years at the point of sale days, which he says would have cost 2.22% in 1995.
Had Mr C joined the added years arrangement in 1995 as opposed to taking out the FSAVC 
plan, this £50 pm would have increased in line with any changes to Mr Cs salary as 
contributions would have need to be maintained at 2.22% to secure the added years.
Both parties are in agreement that Mr C would have bought added years so it follows that he 
would have been prepared for his contributions to increase above the initial £50pm. This is 
more than the 1.37% of salary that Wesleyan has based its calculation on. So to ensure Mr 
C is put back in the position he would have been in, had the FSAVC plan not been taken out, 
I believe the calculation needs to be rerun on the basis of the number of years the initial 
£50pm contribution could have secured.
I can understand why Wesleyan has used the 1.37% as this does reflect what Mr C paid to 
the FSAVC plan between 1995 and 2004. And basing its calculation on this higher initial 
number of added years, as Ive proposed above, will mean that there is a contribution 
shortfall. Mr C will have paid less to his FSAVC than he would have paid to the added years 
arrangement between 1995 and 2004. So the value of the contribution shortfall will need to 
be factored in to the calculation. But in turn this will also mean that Mr C will have paid more 
between 2004 and when he retires for all of his added years rather than the 1y 348 days 
Wesleyan has based its calculation on. So the calculation will also need to determine how 
much extra he has paid since 2004.
Should the calculation be rerun?
I was previously of the view that it wasnt necessary for the calculation to be rerun but 
instead Wesleyan should bring the calculation up to date using 8% simple interest. However, 
given that there has now been a change to the number of added years Mr C would have 
purchased at the point of sale, in my final decision I intend to direct Wesleyan to rerun on the 
basis Ive set out above.
And for the reasons explained in my provisional decision, I intend to direct Wesleyan to carry 
out a charges only calculation on the contributions Mr C paid to the FSAVC before June 
1995 and after 2004.
Value of benefits
Mr C still maintains that Wesleyan is using the value of the added years benefit he secured 
to offset its liability.
Although above Ive suggested the calculation is rerun using the number of added years the 
initial £50 pm contribution would have secured, to avoid confusion when addressing the value of benefits issue, I think it makes sense to refer to the 1.37% contribution rate, which 
would have secured 1 year 348 days in 1995 as this is what was set out in my provisional 
decision and its on this basis that Mr C has presented his counter argument.
I accept that in 2004 when Mr C started to purchase added years, 1.37% would have 
secured less added years than in 1995 because the cost of each year had increased. Mr C 
believes this difference to be 228 days (1y 348 days  1y 120 days). And he considers 
Wesleyan is using the added years he purchased to offset its liability.
Ive acknowledged in previous correspondence that different actuaries will have their own
method of determining what they considered to be correct redress and some of these may 
be more generous than others. And I accept that the value of this 228 days benefit is greater 
than the contributions made to purchase it. But Mr C hasnt lost this benefit. He will still 
receive his full added years entitlement from his OPS.
So while Mr Cs actuary may have dealt with these added years differently, I dont think
Wesleyan is being unfair. Im satisfied that if Wesleyan completes the calculation as Ive set 
out above, it will be placing Mr C in the position he would have been in, had he bought 
added years in 1995. He will receive 3y 63 days added years benefit from his OPS scheme, 
and he wont have paid any more for the number of years his initial £50pm contribution could 
have secured.
Mr C has concerns because he says the calculation only considers the cost of buying the 
added years, it takes no account of the value of the benefit provided by the added years. But 
in this case, where a member has secured the full added years they were entitled to, albeit 
at an increased cost, no benefit has been lost and so Im not going to be asking Wesleyan 
do any more in this regard. And contrary to what Mr C has suggested, in this case, the value 
of the FSVAC plan is not being used to replace any added years. There are no lost added 
years as Mr C will receive his full entitlement from the scheme.
Mr C also says that the value of the FSAVC should not be deducted as this understates the
loss. But I dont agree.
The value of the plan (in respect of the proportion representing contributions paid between 
1995 and 2004) needs to be taken into account in order to put Mr C back in the position he 
would have been in. Any value in excess of the contributions paid during this period is a gain 
and its not unreasonable for Wesleyan to use this gain to offset against any loss Mr C may 
have suffered as a result of the extra he has paid to secure the added years.
If Mr C is redressed as Ive set out above, he will receive the full added years entitlement 
from his OPS and he wont have paid any more for the years his initial contribution would 
have secured. This puts him back in the position he would have been in had he not taken the 
FSAVC plan out and had instead started the added years contract in 1994. If he also 
received the value of any investment gain made on the FSAVC contributions, hed be a in 
better position.
Final submissions from Mr C 
Mr C believes he would have paid for added years for a term of 30 years from June 1995, 
but instead he is actually paying for a term of 21 years from June 2004. So currently he has 
only paid for around 17.77 years of the 21 years, and so only 84.6% of the added years have 
been purchased so far. If he had started in 1995, then by now he would have already paid 
for around 26.77 years of the 30 years, or 89.2% of the added years would have been 
purchased so far. So he believes that if he had to stop the added years contract now e.g. 
because he left NHS employment, or because he wanted to stop paying for added years, 
then he will have accrued around 5% fewer added years than if he had started buying added years in June 1995  and so the benefit value of the lower added years would need to be 
brought into the calculation of redress.
Final submissions from Wesleyan
Wesleyan understands that its being asked to rerun the calculation of difference in cost to 
allow for a notional scenario in which Mr C would have contracted to purchase 3 years 63 
days Notional added years from June 1995 rather than the 1 year 348 days which it has 
used in it calculation. 
The 3 years 63 days added years has been determined by considering the initial FSAVC 
contribution and comparing this to Mr Cs earnings in the tax year commencing 1 April 1998.  
As Mr C would have been constrained by the 40 year service limit, the notional added years 
have been capped at 3 years 63 days. The impact of the proposed adjustment will be 
relatively low because it is only making a comparison of cost of contributions rather than the 
value of added years. Making the proposed adjustment would however introduce complexity 
into the calculation because as noted there would be a contribution shortfall to value.
Furthermore, calculating the notional added years in the way suggested would not be 
consistent with the way that Wesleyan has calculated loss for other investors. Whilst it 
understands the proposal is specific to a scenario where an investor has subsequently 
entered into an added years arrangement, Wesleyan has a strong preference to use the 
same calculation methodology on all cases.
The FSAVC model review guidance does not provide any instruction as to how the notional 
added years should be determined and it is therefore necessary to use a sensible and 
reasonable method.
Wesleyan is strongly of the view that calculating the notional added years based on the total 
contribution paid over the term of the FSAVC is appropriate. It considers that using the 
starting FSAVC rate could result in unfair and unintuitive outcomes. In particular, redress 
could be higher for an investor who has paid less to their FSAVC overall (but have paid flat 
contributions), than for someone who has paid more (but started on a lower rate and raised it 
gradually over time). As such Wesleyan considers that its methodology is more robust and 
fair between investors.
Wesleyan appreciates that other firms may take a different view on the way that the notional 
added years are calculated. However, its very uncomfortable with moving away from its long 
standing calculation approach. Therefore, from both a practical and consistency perspective, 
Wesleyan would strongly prefer not to rework the calculation as it has been suggested
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the case afresh and considered the further submissions provided by both 
parties, Im partially upholding this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
FSAVC contributions from December 1994 to June 1995 and 2004 to 2016
I explained in my provisional decision why I was minded to ask Wesleyan to complete a 
charges only calculation on the contributions Mr C paid to his FSAVC plan, both before he 
could have joined the added years arrangement, and after he did actually join in 2004. Neither party provided any comments in relation to this aspect of my provisional decision so I 
see no reason to depart from my findings in this regard. Therefore, if Mr C accepts my final 
decision, Wesleyan should carry out a charges only calculation on the FSAVC contributions 
Mr C paid between December 1994 to June 1995 and 2004 to 2016. 
How many added years should the calculation be based on?
In terms of the added years calculation, I remain of the view that the redress should be as 
set out in my most recent side letter. I appreciate that Wesleyan believes calculating the 
number of added years based on what Mr Cs initial contribution could have purchased, 
brings a complexity to the calculation because any contribution shortfall needs to be factored 
into the calculation. It also considers the impact of the proposed adjustment would be 
relatively low. However, as Wesleyan is satisfied that Mr C would have bought added years 
at the start, if hes been given adequate information about his options, Im of the view that 
this method of calculation provides fair redress to Mr C. 
It may not be consistent with the way Wesleyan has calculated loss for other investors. But 
when Wesleyan upholds a complaint on the basis that the consumer would have bought 
added years, it follows that must be satisfied that the consumer would have been prepared 
for their contributions to mirror any changes to their salary as this is what would have 
happened if they had bought added years. While Im only making a finding specific to Mr Cs 
complaint, I see no reason why this approach should be different for a consumer that doesnt 
then go on to buy added years.  
I accept that this could result in investors that opt to pay a flat rate of contributions receiving 
more redress, than if they had paid less initially and increased contributions gradually 
throughout the duration of the plan. But if an investor had joined the added years 
arrangement, the number of added years secured would have been set at the outset of the 
contract. And so I consider this approach more accurately reflects the position the investor 
would have found themselves in, had they taken added years rather than an FSAVC. 
I think its important to highlight that whether a consumer choses to increase contributions, or 
not, is a factor that could impact the merits of a complaint in terms of whether it is ultimately 
upheld on an added years basis or a charges only basis. This is because, as Ive said 
above, to uphold on an added years basis would suggest that Wesleyan is satisfied the 
consumer would have been prepared to increase their contributions in line with their salary. 
In the case of Mr C, despite paying a flat rate of contributions throughout the duration of the 
FSAVC plan, both parties are in agreement that he would have bought added years and so I 
believe the redress Ive set out above is fair. 
Value of benefit 
I appreciate that Mr Cs representative doesnt agree but I remain of the view that Wesleyan 
only needs to calculate the difference in the cost of buying added years; I dont believe it 
needs to calculate the value of the benefit Mr Cs excess contributions to the added years 
arrangement have secured. I dont intend to repeat my reasons for reaching this decision 
here as they are clearly set out in both my provisional decision and side letter. 
In its most recent submissions, Mr Cs representative has argued that if Mr C stopped his 
added years contract now - because he left NHS employment or he simply wanted to stop 
paying for added years - then he would have accrued around 5% fewer added years than if 
hed started buying added years in June 1995. I agree that this may well be the case. But its not been suggested that Mr C intends to stop 
paying for added years before the contract is due to end. And so, on balance, I think its 
likely that Mr C will continue his added years contract until the age of 60 and he will receive 
the full 3 years 63 days added years he contracted to buy. So, if I was to ask Wesleyan to 
provide redress on the basis that Mr C has currently secured less added years, and Mr C 
continues with his added years contract as I believe is most likely, this will effectively leave 
Mr C with a benefit equivalent of around 5% more than 3 years 63 days he was entitled to 
buy under the added years arrangement. So for this reason, I wont be asking Wesleyan to 
factor this benefit value into its calculations.  Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr C 
as close to the position he would probably be in if he had purchased added years in 1995 
rather than taking out the FSAVC plan.
Calculation in respect of added years
In order to determine how much extra Mr C has paid as a result of the delay in purchasing 
added years, Wesleyan should rerun its calculation on the basis of the number of years the 
initial monthly contribution of £50 could have secured Mr C in 1995, presumed to be 3 years 
and 63 days. Wesleyan will need to take account of any shortfall in the contributions Mr C 
paid to his FSAVC plan between 1995 and 2004. Any loss identified should be adjusted to 
reflect tax that Mr C is expected to pay in retirement. 
FSAVC contributions between December 1994 to June 1995 and 2004 to 2016
Wesleyan should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits. 
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Wesleyan should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Wesleyan should complete the above calculations as at the date of my final decision. And it 
should pay 8% simple per year from the date of the final decision to the date of settlement if 
the matter is not settled within 28 days of the it being notified of Mr Cs acceptance.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I partially uphold this complaint. I require Wesleyan 
Assurance Society pay redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman