DRN-3316301
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs K have complained that the renters insurance policy that they took out with 
USAA Limited didnt cover damage to their computer.
What happened
When moving continents, Mr G and Mrs K took out a renters policy with USAA to cover their 
personal items. The policy provided secondary coverage if they were unsuccessful in 
claiming against the shippers or government. They submitted a claim for damage to a 
computer desk and computer. USAA declined the claim in reliance on the policy terms.
Mr G and Mrs K then referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr G and Mrs K appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand Mr G and Mrs Ks frustration and disappointment, and do appreciate that 
this has been a traumatic experience for them. But in the circumstances, I dont find that they 
have been treated unfairly. Ill explain why.
The insurance policy they purchased, like all policies of this type, contained certain 
exclusions. One was that there was no cover for accidental damage such as breakages, and 
there was no cover for wear and tear or gradual ageing. Accordingly, USAA directed Mr G 
and Mrs K back to the shipper to see if a claim could be made on that insurance as it wasnt 
covered by the renters policy. I think that was fair.
USAA advised that damage to the computer may be covered under the computer 
endorsement, which Mr G and Mrs K had purchased. USAA asked for certain documentation 
to be provided in order to consider a claim as cover was secondary to the shippers cover. 
No further evidence was provided to USAA or to this service. I understand that 
documentation may not have been retained but I dont find that it was unreasonable to 
request it in order to consider the claim further.
Mr G and Mrs K also feel that they were mis-led as to the extent of the cover during the 
sales conversation they had with the adviser at USAA. However Im satisfied that they were 
told about the policy exclusions. I recognise that this came some way into the sales 
conversation, but I wouldnt have expected it to be the first thing discussed. The policy 
exclusions are not unusual and Im satisfied that the terms and conditions were clear.
In all the circumstances therefore I dont find that USAA limited have misled Mr G and Mrs K 
or treated them unfairly, unreasonably or contrary to their policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman