DRN-3792643
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that HSBC decided not to refund him after he was the victim of a scam and 
his funds went to an account held at HSBC.
What happened
Mr A decided to invest with a company. It turned out he was dealing with scammers. He sent 
money from his bank account to an account held with HSBC. Mr A also brought a complaint 
about his bank account provider, and this was resolved with a settlement of 50% of his 
losses. Mr A believes HSBC is responsible for his remaining losses. 
Mr A has provided detailed reasoning as to why he thinks HSBC is responsible but 
summarily hes said its responsible to prevent fraud and criminal activity on its customers 
accounts and if it had he wouldnt have lost money to this scam.
HSBC initially said it couldnt locate the recipient account number that Mr A had provided. 
And that Mr A should contact his own bank account provider to raise the scam complaint. It 
later went on to provide information about its investigation of the recipient account. This was 
to evidence its position that it couldnt have prevented Mr As losses. 
Our investigator initially said Mr A had provided an account number which HSBC couldnt 
locate. He said if Mr A could provide an account number for HSBC it said it would look into 
matters. He went on to say it was very unlikely that HSBC would have made an error. It 
didnt know that Mr A had been scammed until nearly two months after the payments, and 
fraudsters usually remove money within hours of receiving it. He didnt think it was likely that 
HSBC would have been aware the account was being used for fraudulent purposes as 
fraudsters rarely use the same accounts for prolonged periods. 
Mr A disagreed and said he hadnt been made aware that the account number he had 
provided was too long and HSBC had been dealing with his complaint for a year and half. He 
said HSBC were responsible for his losses and said DISP Rule 2.7.6R(2B) meant that it 
shouldve analysed and detected the activity and prevented it. He also said that under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM), HSBC had a duty to stop these types of crimes. 
He said HSBC did not have adequate security measures in place.
After further investigation and evidence from HSBC the investigator was satisfied that HSBC 
hadnt made an error either as part of its obligations under DISP or as a member of the CRM 
and he said HSBC couldnt have prevented Mr As losses.
Mr A said he would like the case looked at by an ombudsman. And so, the complaint has 
been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same
reasons.
To clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of HSBC  as the Receiving Firm of
the accounts where Mr A made payments to.
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like HSBC, are required to
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2)
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing
of terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that HSBC agreed to
abide by the principles of.
The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm SF2 Receiving Firms should take 
reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being used to launder the proceeds of APP 
scams. This should include procedures to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds 
from APP scams. Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that 
they may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond in a 
timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are
being, used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures
set out in the Best Practice Standards.
In considering all of the above, and to determine if HSBC met the standards required of it
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether HSBC opened the receiving account
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should
have given HSBC any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act
appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any ofthe above, I have to consider whether HSBCs acts or omissions fairly resulted in Mr As 
losses.
I would like to point out to Mr A at this point, that while HSBC has provided our service with 
information about the receiving bank account  it has done so in confidence. This is to allow 
us to discharge our investigatory functions and HSBC has provided that which is necessary 
for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our service cant share 
any information about the beneficiaries, the receiving bank account or any investigation and 
action HSBC subsequently took. However, I would like to assure Mr A I have thoroughly 
reviewed and considered all the information provided before reaching my decision.
Prevention  the account opening process
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the
named account holders; and did its due diligence when opening the accounts.
Im satisfied that HSBC didnt make any errors when opening the account, it appears to have 
completed the correct ID checks and due diligence at the time the account was opened. And 
Im satisfied it had no reason to be concerned about the account at the time Mr As funds 
credited it. 
Detection  account activity
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Prior to the payments from Mr A, I cant see that there was any suspicious activity
on the account that means HSBC failed to prevent or detect the receipt of fraudulent funds.
Im also satisfied there was no notification of fraud on the account prior to the payments Mr A 
made into the account and no other red flags where it could reasonably be argued that 
HSBC might have had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their 
customers payment instructions.
So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC has demonstrated that it has taken reasonable
steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. I also
dont think HSBC ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have expected it to
have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Mr As losses in
this way either.
Response to the notification of fraud
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds
remain for recovery.
Unfortunately, Mr As funds had already been moved on by the time it was
notified. So, Im satisfied HSBC couldnt have done anything to prevent Mr As
losses. So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud,
HSBC responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice Standards.
And I dont think I can fairly say HSBC didnt do enough to respond to the alleged APP
fraud.
Summary
Overall, while Mr A was the unfortunate victim of a scam, Im satisfied that HSBC
met the standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think HSBC couldve
done anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Mr As
money. And it responded appropriately once notified of the fraud.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr A but Im satisfied that HSBC
doesnt need to refund him for his remaining losses.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman