DRN-3484853
The complaint
Mr P complains about the premium rebate in relation to his medical insurance policy with 
BUPA Insurance Limited. His mother, Mrs P, is assisting him in bringing his complaint.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr P had a medical insurance policy with BUPA. The policy relevant 
to this complaint started on 1 May 2019 and ended on 30 April 2020. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a pandemic. On        
16 March 2020, the UK government advised against all unnecessary travel and social 
contact, especially for higher risk groups. On 23 March 2020, national lockdown was 
imposed by the UK government. Due to the large number of patients suffering from      
Covid-19, private medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support for the 
NHS.
On 19 March 2021, BUPA wrote to Mr P about a premium rebate. Ill refer to that letter in 
more detail below. On 7 July 2021, BUPA gave Mr P a rebate of £44.37. Mr P didnt think 
that was sufficient.  
Mr P says hes clinically extremely vulnerable and was advised to isolate during the 
pandemic. He says that he didnt renew his policy in 2020 because of financial difficulties 
arising out of  Covid-19. Mr P says that BUPA acted unfairly as he didnt renew his policy for 
reasons outside his control. And it hasnt taken into account that whilst his policy was in 
place, he was prevented from receiving urgent physiotherapy and a course of injections 
recommended by his consultant. Mr P says that he received no value for the premium he 
paid from 23 March 2020 to 30 April 2020 and that he was a long standing policyholder. He 
wants BUPA to honour its rebate premium pledge and refund one months premium of 
approximately £290.69.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that BUPA had acted 
unfairly. The investigator said that BUPA didnt promise to refund a months premium: it said 
that it expected the rebate to be around a months premium but that could differ, based on 
the premiums paid during the qualifying period. The investigator thought that BUPA had 
acted fairly in calculating Mr Ps rebate in the way that it did and that it wasnt obliged to 
provide a rebate. He said that BUPA wasnt responsible for the availability of healthcare. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. Mrs P responded on his behalf. She said, in 
summary:
When lockdown started, Mr Ps policy had one month and nine days to run. Mr P 
didnt renew the policy as he was instructed to isolate and suffered financial 
problems. 
The treatment Mr P had planned for March and April 2020 had to be cancelled 
because of his clinical vulnerability and the lockdown measures. 
Following BUPAs letter of 19 March 2021, Mr P was expecting a rebate of around 
one months premium. His monthly premium was £290.99 and the rebate of £44.37 
wasnt sufficient. 
Mr P was unable to receive the benefits of his policy through no fault of his own 
whilst he was still obliged to make the payments.
Mr P was a long standing policyholder and was prejudiced because he didnt renew 
his policy due to Covid-19 and resulting financial problems. BUPA has treated him 
unfairly in relation to the rebate pledge. 
The investigator invited BUPA to consider increasing the rebate to Mr P, but it declined to do 
so. He considered what Mrs P had said on Mr Ps behalf but didnt change his view. Mr P 
asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr P has strong feelings about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions 
to support the complaint. Ive read through all this carefully and taken it all into consideration 
when making my decision. I trust that he wont take as a discourtesy that I concentrate on 
what I think are the central issues in the case. 
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ps complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of his contract with BUPA 
as well as other relevant considerations, such as the law and industry guidance. 
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint because I dont think that BUPA treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say that because:   
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy say that his policy is for one year and that 
premiums must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that year. Insurance 
policies are intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the 
duration of the contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium 
paid to cover the risk during that time. BUPA provided cover under Mr Ps policy from     
1 May 2019 until 30 April 2020. BUPA is entitled to retain the premium it charged to 
cover the risk of Mr P making a claim while the policy was in force. The terms of Mr Ps policy set out the cancellation rights under the contract. These 
say that if he cancelled his policy within 21 days of either receiving the policy 
documents or the cover start date, hed be entitled to a full refund of his premiums, 
unless any claims had been made. If Mr P chose to cancel the policy at any point 
after 21 days, BUPA would refund the premium hed paid after the date the cover 
ended. Theres no term in the policy which entitled Mr P to a premium refund if hes 
unable to make use of all of the services he expected to be available. 
I dont think its accurate to say that there was no value in the policy during the 
pandemic. Some urgent treatment continued. Depending on the type of treatment or 
services required, BUPA could pre-authorised treatment to be carried out at a later 
date. And certain services could be carried out remotely. 
I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if treatment or services 
arent available due to circumstances outside its control. BUPA doesnt own or 
operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members use and the use of 
facilities by the NHS was something BUPA couldnt control. And BUPA wasnt 
responsible for the instructions to Mr P to isolate. 
I dont think that BUPA promised Mr P a rebate of a months premium. BUPA offered 
rebate payments to certain policyholders, including Mr P. These rebates were paid in 
recognition of the value of claims reductions resulting from Covid-19, after allowing 
for the likely impact of delayed claims and the additional costs of the pandemic. I 
dont think that was an unfair approach.
The rebates paid by BUPA were equivalent to around one months premium for 
customers who held a policy throughout the qualifying period 23 March 2020 to       
30 September 2020. That was the period during which independent hospital services 
were most disrupted as they supported the NHS. BUPAs approach has been 
independently verified by a third party. Details of the independent party are available 
on BUPAs website. 
BUPA paid Mr P a rebate of £44.37. Mr P says that isnt one months premium. 
However, Mr Ps policy ended on 30 April 2020, during the qualifying period. BUPA 
calculated the rebate as a proportion of the premium paid during the qualifying 
period. I note the reason Mr P says he didnt renew his policy, but I dont think that 
alters the outcome here. BUPA has paid Mr P a pro rata rebate. I dont think thats 
unfair. 
The rebate BUPA paid to Mr P is in line with the approach set out by BUPA and 
verified by the independent third party. I dont think its unreasonable. 
I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
require BUPA to refund the premiums Mr P paid between 23 March 2020 and                   
30 April 2020 or to increase the rebate it has already paid to Mr P. It was down to 
each individual insurer to decide how to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic and what, 
if any, action to take. I sympathise with Mr Ps position, but for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think that BUPA treated him unfairly or unreasonably. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman