DRN-3828817
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt refunded the money 
he lost when he paid for a car he didnt receive. 
What happened
Mr H says he found a company Ill refer to as F online. In February 2021 he paid F a total of 
£10,395 to source a car for him. The invoice Mr H received said that F held his funds on 
account, and they were fully refundable. F didnt provide Mr H with a car, so he sought a 
refund  which F agreed to. Whilst F communicated with Mr H about the refund for some 
time, he never received it and F later went into liquidation. 
Mr H called NatWest to report that he was the victim of a scam in August 2021, but NatWest 
didnt agree to refund him saying he had a civil dispute with F and that it has followed the 
correct processes in this case. It contacted the bank that received Mr Hs funds but was 
unable to recover anything. 
As Mr H was unhappy with NatWests response, he brought a complaint to this service. He 
referred to the fact that other customers of F have been refunded through their banks so 
questions why NatWest hasnt done the same. He has also asked at what point a business 
in financial difficulty becomes fraudulent.
The investigator who considered his complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said 
this because he felt that at the time Mr H made his payments F was operating as a legitimate 
business and Mr H had a civil dispute with it. 
As the parties havent reached an agreement the complaint has been passed to me to issue 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr H has lost so much money and of the impact of the loss on him and 
his family. I can totally understand why Mr H wishes to get his money back. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam (excepted in limited circumstances). But the CRM Code is quite 
explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
This Code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid 
a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they 
are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
So the CRM Code isnt a general protection for consumers against non-receipt of services. 
Instead, it only applies in very specific circumstances  where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam.
Its clear that Mr H did not receive a car or a refund from F. But in order for me to conclude 
that Mr H has been the victim of a scam, Id have to be satisfied that F deliberately tricked Mr 
H into making payments for a service its directors had no intention of providing at the time he 
made his payments. Im not persuaded I can say that is most likely what happened here and 
will explain why. 
I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that at the time Mr F made the payments the 
directors of F didnt intend to provide him with a car. I can see that Mr H was offered a 
couple of cars that didnt meet his requirements. Confidential information Ive had access to, 
and cannot share, also persuades me that when Mr H made payments in February 2021 F 
was a legitimate business. It appears that F later had financial difficulties and may have 
operated differently. But I cant ask NatWest to refund Mr H because of this. I need to 
consider the position at the time Mr H paid F. 
I appreciate that others who lost money when they transferred it to F in the same 
circumstances have received refunds from their banks, but this doesnt mean that Mr H 
should too. Some banks make commercial decisions to provide a refund on a goodwill basis. 
And, as Ive said above, whilst I dont believe F acted dishonestly at the time Mr H paid it for 
a car, the position may well have changed later. 
I consider the payment to F was larger than normal transactions on the account and so 
arguably NatWest should have done more at the time the payment was made. But if 
NatWest had intervened it wouldnt have made a difference, as Mr H had no reason to 
believe F was operating as anything other than a legitimate business at this time. 
Overall, whilst Im really sorry to hear of Mr Hs loss, I cant fairly hold NatWest responsible 
so am not asking it to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman