DRN-3472409
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) gave her daughter information about a 
bank account Mrs F was a trustee of by mistake. Mrs F says that mistake had serious 
repercussions.
What happened
In 2021 Mrs Fs daughter phoned Santander to ask for a replacement debit card. During that 
phone call, Santander mistakenly gave Mrs Fs daughter information about a bank account 
Mrs F was a trustee of. 
Santander accepted it had made a mistake and offered Mrs F £150 to reflect its mistake. 
Mrs F didnt accept Santanders offer and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Mrs F told us that the bank account had been set up for the benefit of her daughter who had 
ongoing issues with her health. The money in the account was held in trust for Mrs Fs 
daughter.
Mrs F says her daughter was managing her health well before the mistake was made. 
However, after she learnt of the account her daughter suffered a setback. Mrs F says her 
daughter started harassing her for the money in the account and accused her of theft and 
fraud. Mrs F provided us with a recording of a phone call between her and her daughter from 
around this time. In that phone call Mrs Fs daughter said that Mrs F had no right to keep the 
money and said that she would forcefully come and take it.
Mrs F told our investigator that the phone calls and threats continued. After this Mrs F says 
her daughter assaulted her in the presence of a social worker. The police were called, but no 
charges were brought against Mrs Fs daughter.
Mrs F says that after that incident the social worker asked to be taken off Mrs Fs case. 
Mrs F says this caused her further distress and shows the level of aggression involved. 
She told us the situation deteriorated to such an extent that her daughter went to live in a 
semi-dependant facility. Mrs F told our investigator that she was left feeling scared, 
ashamed, and traumatised by what happened. She holds Santander responsible for the 
stress and anxiety she suffered. 
Our investigator recommended that Santander should pay Mrs F £1,500 compensation to 
resolve the complaint given the extent of the upset Mrs F was caused. Santander agreed to 
this. 
However, Mrs F still didnt think £1,500 was enough money to reflect the impact of the matter 
on her. She told our investigator that she thought her life might have been threatened if 
shed been able to access Mrs Fs property. Mrs F decided to move abroad after the incident 
as she was traumatised by what had happened. She said she couldnt face her neighbours 
or the thought of having to explain everything.
Mrs F said that when her daughter assaulted her, she sustained some injuries and was 
advised to go to the hospital by the police officers that attended the scene. She didnt do as 
she was so embarrassed by what had happened. Mrs F says is now suffering neck issues as 
a result of the incident.
Our investigator considered that given the new information Mrs F had provided Santander 
should pay Mrs F £5,000 compensation. He thought that was a fair and reasonable amount 
in the circumstances. However Mrs F still didnt think that was enough compensation, so she 
asked her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
After Mrs F asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint our investigator was able to 
get the police report into the incident. Mrs F provided a recording of a phone conversation 
shed had with the social worker about the incident. She also told us that she thinks the 
injury to her neck seems to be long term. Our investigator asked Mrs F to provide us with 
medical evidence to support what she has told us about the injury to her neck. Mrs F told 
him that she doesnt have the money to go to a doctor in the country she has been living and 
has been relying on home remedies.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Theres no dispute that Santander made a mistake when it gave Mrs Fs daughter 
information about a bank account Mrs F was a trustee of. Santander has apologised and 
acknowledged that its mistake had a substantial impact on Mrs F. Thats reflected by the fact 
that Santander accepted our investigators initial view and offered to pay £1,500 Mrs F 
compensation. 
The question I need to decide is how much compensation is fair and reasonable to resolve 
this complaint, bearing in mind the evidence that has been provided about the impact of 
Santanders mistake on Mrs F.
I will begin by saying that Ive no doubt that things have been difficult for Mrs F, and that the 
Santanders mistake had serious repercussions on her. I want to thank Mrs F for being so 
open with our service.
Having considered everything Mrs F has said and provided, Im satisfied that Santanders 
mistake caused Mrs F substantial distress. I say that because Mrs F has provided us with 
evidence to show that after Santander told Mrs Fs daughter about the account and the 
amount of money in it, she phoned Mrs F to challenge her about the account. Mrs Fs 
daughter went on to visit Mrs F where she says she was assaulted. The police attended the 
incident and have provided us with information about what happened. The police report says 
that no charges were brought against Mrs Fs daughter and there wasnt evidence of injury 
to support a prosecution. Despite this Im in no doubt that Mrs F was extremely upset by 
what happened. Mrs F has told us about the embarrassment and shame she suffered as a 
result of the incident. Im sure she was worried by the setback to her daughters health too.
Recently Mrs F has also told us that she has long term problems with her neck as a result of 
her daughters assault. She has told us she holds Santander responsible for that and has 
questioned how Santander is going to support her going forward.
Im very sorry to hear about the neck injuries Mrs F says she sustained when her daughter 
assaulted her. However, Im conscious that Mrs F hasnt provided us with any evidence from 
a medical professional to support what she has told us about when she sustained her 
injuries, their severity, or how long they are likely to last. Mrs F has told us that she was too 
embarrassed to go to a hospital as she was advised to by the police. However, I think Santander could reasonably expect Mrs F to get any injuries she sustained when her 
daughter assaulted her treated by a medical professional so that the impact of those injuries 
on Mrs F could be minimised. Mrs F was living in the UK at the time so she wouldnt have 
had to pay for medical treatment.
Mrs F has told us that she has moved abroad since the incident and hasnt sought medical 
treatment for the injury to her neck. She has told us she cant afford to get medical treatment 
in the country she is living in now and is relying on home remedies. Im sorry to hear about 
the pain Mrs F says she is in. However, Im conscious that it was Mrs Fs choice to move a 
country where she would have to pay for medical treatment. It would be unfair of me to 
require Santander to compensate Mrs F for injuries that havent been assessed or treated by 
a medical professional.
Taking the matter as a whole, I think that the £1,500 Santander has offered Mrs F to resolve 
this complaint is fair and reasonable. Im conscious that Mrs F is likely to be disappointed by 
this, but Im satisfied that the £1,500 offered fairly reflects the substantial distress 
Santanders mistake caused Mrs F. I think its worth saying here that my awards arent 
intended to punish Santander for what happened.
The responses to my provisional decision 
Santander responded to my provisional decision by saying it didnt have anything to add. 
Mrs F said she was unhappy with my provisional decision and willing to pursue the matter in 
court. She reiterated that shes unable to get a doctors certificate because of her current 
location and doesnt have any more evidence to submit to us. 
Mrs F also told us that she isnt permanently living in another country. She is just taking 
some time away from home in the UK to recuperate because of the embarrassment and 
trauma Santander caused. She says the incident has caused her a lot of flashbacks and she 
is unable to sleep well at night.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered again what I said in my provisional decision. But I havent changed my mind 
about my findings. Im sorry to hear what Mrs F has told us about the ongoing impact of this 
matter on her.  Im sure things have been very difficult for her. However, I remain of the view 
that the £1,500 compensation Santander has offered Mrs F to resolve this complaint is fair 
and reasonable. I think that amount is fair and reasonable bearing in mind the mistake 
Santander made and the substantial impact it had on Mrs F.
Mrs F has said she isnt living in another country permanently. I thank her for making that 
clear. However, the upshot of her living in another country while this complaint has been with 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is that Mrs F has told us she hasnt been able to get 
medical treatment to cover the health issues she has told us about. I remain of the view that 
It would be unfair of me to require Santander to compensate Mrs F for injuries or health 
concerns that havent been assessed or treated by a medical professional.
I appreciate that Mrs F is likely to be disappointed by this decision. She has said that she 
was unhappy with my provisional decision and is willing to pursue the matter in court. 
Mrs F is free to pursue the matter in court. She may want to get independent legal advice about this.
Putting things right
Taking the matter as a whole, I think that the £1,500 Santander has offered Mrs F to resolve 
this complaint is fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that the £1,500 offered fairly reflects the 
substantial distress Santanders mistake caused Mrs F.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Santander should pay Mrs F the 
£1,500 it has offered to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman