DRN-3230443
The complaint
B complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC decision to close its account and withhold the 
money in it.
What happened
B held a business account with Barclays. In June 2020, Barclays carried out a review on the 
account and blocked access to it. B noticed the account balance had gone from a positive 
balance to minus £500,000. In July 2020, Barclays wrote to B to inform it they would be 
closing its account. Barclays told B the account would close in September 2020. In August 
2020, Barclays released the outstanding money left in Bs account to B.
B brought the complaint to our service. It said Barclays could only block the account if there 
were signs of money laundering  and B had proved where the payments were coming from 
and going to in the account.
Our investigator didnt uphold Bs complaint. He said Barclays are entitled to carry out 
reviews at any time, and thought theyd acted in line with the terms and conditions when 
closing Bs account. He was satisfied Barclays holding on to the funds for around 46 days 
was reasonable in the circumstances, and so didnt ask Barclays to do anything to put things 
right.
B didnt agree. It said Barclays had interpreted the facts and terms and conditions in their 
favour. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should point out that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may 
treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it 
contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Barclays has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential.
Ive also noted that B has raised a number of complaint points. Our investigator helpfully 
explained that the points which form part of this complaint relate to the account review and 
block, the account closure and Barclays holding funds. So, while Im aware B has other 
elements which it is unhappy about, I havent focused or commented on those as part of this 
decision.
The review, block and withholding the money
Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing 
business relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
I recognise B doesnt think Barclays were able to block the account. Having looked at whats 
happened, Im satisfied Barclays were complying with their legal and regulatory obligations 
when they reviewed Bs account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. I 
appreciate Barclays didnt tell B about the review, or the reasons why  but theyre not 
obliged to.
Ive looked at the time Barclays took to review things. I understand the account was initially 
blocked around 30 June 2020. Barclays then made the decision to close Bs account on 16 
July 2020 and informed B in writing that the account would close in September 2020. I am 
aware, however, that B didnt have access to the money in the account until 14 August 2020. 
I appreciate how inconvenient it must have been for B to not have access to its money for 
around six weeks and no doubt it caused the company some issues. However, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays took the appropriate action in the circumstances. 
While we wouldnt usually say how long a review should take, I havent seen that Barclays 
caused any unnecessary delays or held the money unfairly. 
The closure and reasons
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if B decided to end the agreement with Barclays and use another bank  it wouldnt have 
to explain why. 
Im also satisfied Barclays complied with the terms and conditions of the account, and Im 
pleased to see they referred to the specific term (section 9) theyd relied on in their notice to 
close letter to B. This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. 
While Im aware Barclays hasnt shared the reasons for their decision with B, Ive reviewed 
their reasons and Ive seen nothing to suggest Barclays have made an unfair decision. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays acted appropriately in the full circumstances of this 
complaint. It therefore follows that I wont be asking them to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Ombudsman