DRN-4181546
The complaint
Miss N complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc trading as EVERYPAW (Pinnacle) declined 
a claim she made on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Miss N has a pet insurance policy with Pinnacle which runs from August 2022 to August 
2023.
Miss N made a claim for the cost of her dog to see a behaviourist to help with his reaction to 
other dogs. Miss N says the vet signed the referral form for her. 
Miss N says her pet insurance covers behaviourist costs which have been referred by the 
vet, and she checked this with Pinnacle before making her claim. 
Miss N sent her dogs medical history to Pinnacle as part of the claim. Pinnacle declined the 
claim due to a pre-existing behaviour problem.  Miss N says this was based on an entry in 
the medical records dated October 2021 which says, discussed noise phobia. O already 
doing behaviour modification. 
Miss N explained the note in the records were from a routine check-up with the vet in which 
she asked for advice about how to manage her dogs reaction to loud fireworks Miss N says 
she is frustrated that a brief conversation with her vet has been taken out of context and 
used against her claim. 
Miss N wasnt happy the claim was declined and complained to Pinnacle. Pinnacle said as 
part of its claim assessment it obtained the dogs full clinical history. It said the note 
regarding the noise phobia and behaviour modification was in October 2021 prior to the start 
of the policy with Pinnacle which began in August 2022. Pinnacle said as a result of the entry 
within the notes it placed an exclusion for behavioural problems and as such it wouldnt 
consider any payment for the claim. Pinnacle said even though the most recent condition 
may not be directly related to the issues noted previously they fall under the exclusion for 
behavioural problems. 
Miss N wasnt satisfied with the response from Pinnacle and so she referred her complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into things for her. He upheld the complaint. He said 
Pinnacle should reassess the claim on the basis he doesnt think it has fairly interpreted the 
vets notes from October 2021. He said he didnt think the exclusion had been placed fairly. 
Pinnacle werent happy with the investigators outcome. It said it didnt place the behaviour 
exclusion on the noise phobia alone. There was also an entry from 2020 that said the dog 
was showing signs of anxiety. Pinnacle said Miss N didnt declare the pet had shown any 
sign or symptom of injury or illness when the policy was purchased. 
Pinnacle disagreed with the investigators outcome. It asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. 
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said; 
I appreciate Miss N has experienced a difficult time during the course of the claim so I can 
see this has been a stressful experience for her. Miss N feels strongly that Pinnacle has 
treated her unfairly. 
Pre-existing condition
My starting point is Miss Ns pet insurance policy. This sets out the terms and conditions of 
the cover. And under the heading We will not pay for it says, Any condition or symptom, or 
anything related to it, that you were aware of or has been noted and/or investigated by a vet 
before this policy started. 
The referral form submitted to Pinnacle is referred to as For Dog Behaviour Consultation 
with the presenting problem described as reactions towards other dogs. 
In order to consider this complaint Ive taken into account what the clinical notes show and 
the opinion of the experts. 
Using guidelines issued by their regulatory body, all vets are required to take the utmost care 
when writing records to ensure they are clear and accurate. It is therefore reasonable for an 
insurer to reply on the clinical notes as being a true and accurate representation of what was 
seen and heard at the time of each consultation. The clinical notes are a contemporaneous 
account of Miss Ns dogs clinical history. 
Ive looked at the clinical notes and there is an entry on 24 September 2020 regarding the 
dogs behaviour that says, O requested call re behaviour. and, O concerned re anxiety. 
The notes also say, Suffers from anxiety. 
On 6 October 2021 the notes say, discussed noise phobia. O already doing behaviour 
modification. 
Miss Ns policy began in 2022. And because Pinnacle dont cover pre-existing conditions it 
asked Miss N if her dog had ever shown any signs of illness or injury. Specifically it asked 
whether the dog had, ever shown any sign of injury or illness or been unwell? We need to 
know anything you have noticed or discussed with your vet or any other professional about 
health or behaviour. Even if there was nothing to be concerned about and the problem was 
resolved quickly.  Miss N answered no. Had Miss N said yes she would have seen a 
message which said, this policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. As youve answered 
yes we may ask you for information about pre-existing conditions and their vets details. Our 
team will then contact the relevant vet(s) for medical history. Once weve received and 
reviewed this well let you know if there are any conditions were unable to cover. 
I can see from the vets notes that Miss N contacted, or discussed with, the vet in 2020 and 
again in 2021 regarding an issue with the dogs behaviour. I am satisfied Miss N was aware 
of issues with her dogs behaviour as per the terms of the policy, before the start date and 
didnt tell Pinnacle about this at inception. 
I know Miss N feels very strongly that the insurer should pay for the treatment of the 
condition because it wasnt previously diagnosed, and she checked with Pinnacle that it was 
covered under the terms of the policy. When looking at complaints such as these I look at 
the terms and conditions of the policy as agreed at the time the policy was taken out, and 
whether the application of the terms was fair in the circumstances. I am sympathetic to the situation Miss N now finds herself in. But that doesnt mean the terms of the insurance dont 
apply. 
I have also thought about whether Miss N was aware there was something wrong with her 
dog which could likely lead to some investigation or treatment. I can see Miss N contacted 
the vet regarding the dogs behaviour prior to the start of the policy, and again once the 
policy started So on balance I think Miss N was aware there was something affecting her 
dog.  
The issue here is whether Miss Ns dog was presenting with clinical signs of a condition 
affecting his behaviour prior to inception of the policy. And based on what Ive seen I think he 
was. 
So, taking everything into account Im satisfied Pinnacle acted fairly in not meeting the claim 
for treatment of the condition. 
Misrepresentation 
The relevant law in this case is Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. And if a consumer fails to do this the 
insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is a qualifying one. For it to be 
qualifying the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at 
all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Pinnacle say Miss N failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she took out the policy. 
Ive looked at the questions asked by the site when Miss N purchased the policy. The use of 
the word test below is based on the example questions Ive been provided with and refers 
to the pet being insured. The relevant page asks the following; 
Has test ever shown any sign of injury or illness or been unwell? We need to know anything 
you have noticed or discussed with your vet or any other professional about tests health or 
behaviour. Even if there was nothing to be concerned about and the problem was resolved 
quickly. So I think the question asked was clear and unambiguous. Miss N answered no. 
And so the following message was displayed, This policy doesnt cover pre-existing 
conditions. Its important we know of any conditions and/or symptoms tests suffering from or 
has suffered from in the past before you take out this policy. At the point of claim, our team 
will review your pets medical records. Failure to tell us about any pre-existing conditions 
may affect future claims and your policy. 
I will now move on to whether the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. And what 
Pinnacle would have done had it known the correct information. 
Pinnacle provided this service with evidence by way of the underwriting criteria. I am 
satisfied Pinnacle has shown that had it been aware of the pre-existing condition it would 
have added an exclusion to the policy at the point Miss N purchased it. So I agree the 
misrepresentation is qualifying. I have looked at what Miss N has said about why she didnt disclose the behavioural issues 
and I empathise with her position here. I can see why shes frustrated; she perhaps didnt 
appreciate the potential consequences of her actions. But I cant say Pinnacle have treated 
her unfairly. 
On receipt of the dogs clinical notes Pinnacle added the exclusion to the policy, along with 
five more in relation to other conditions, and I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
Taking all of this into account Im satisfied Pinnacle acted fairly and reasonably when 
declining the claim for behaviour therapy. And its actions are in line with the actions it can 
take in accordance with CIDRA.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my provision conclusions. 
Response to my provisional decision 
Neither party raised any additional points or queried my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that neither Miss N nor Pinnacle had anything to add to the findings set out 
in my provisional decision (which Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this final 
decision), Im satisfied it represents an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the 
reasons Ive set out above Im not upholding Miss Ns complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint about Pinnacle Insurance Plc 
trading as EVERYPAW.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman