DRN-3777596
The complaint
Miss M and Mr S complain that the house they bought with a mortgage from HSBC UK Bank 
Plc is experiencing subsidence, and is worth much less than they thought. They say HSBC 
is responsible for the repairs which are now needed, or the money theyd lose on a sale.
What happened
Miss M and Mr S bought a house in 2021, with a mortgage from HSBC. They told us they 
then found out that the rear of the house is affected by subsidence. They are currently 
waiting to see if an insurance claim for this will be paid. 
Miss M and Mr S said the property was worth considerably less than they paid for it, and 
HSBC should never have lent them the money for this house. Miss M said that because a 
valuation report was obtained by HSBC, she understood no further survey was required. She 
said HSBCs valuer should have noticed what was wrong with the property. Miss M felt that 
HSBC was liable for what had gone wrong, she said this might be breach of contract, or 
misrepresentation. 
HSBC said it carried out a standard valuation report for its own purposes. Miss M and Mr S 
didnt get their own survey. HSBC said Miss M and Mr S took out their mortgage through a 
broker, and the broker ought to have discussed with them whether they wanted a survey. 
HSBC said that its valuation is not a survey, its a limited check on the property, and its clear 
that the valuation for mortgage purposes isnt a suitable basis for a purchase decision. 
HSBC said the limitations on the valuation report are made clear in a section titled Important 
Notice to Prospective Borrowers at the end of the valuation report itself. That says -
The sole purpose of this valuation report is to enable the Bank to assess the security 
offered by the property for the proposed loan. This report is not a Homebuyers 
Report, building or structural survey and must not be relied upon to identify any 
defects which may be present in the property. Even where defects are mentioned in 
the report, there may still be other unidentified defects present. Additionally, services 
have not been tested.
If you are proposing to purchase the property and you wish to be satisfied as to the 
condition of it, you must have a surveyors detailed inspection and report of your own 
before deciding whether to enter into a contract. 
So HSBC wouldnt accept any liability for the cost Miss M and Mr S might incur to rectify the 
problem.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that the valuation 
report identified no concerns with the property and confirmed it was suitable security for 
HSBC. But HSBC was adamant that the valuation was done solely for its purposes. 
Our investigator clarified that he can only look at what HSBC has done, not what the 
surveyor did. HSBC isnt responsible for that. And the information in the report was only for 
HSBC to decide if the house was suitable security for it based on the lending criteria. The 
report wasnt produced to help Miss M and Mr S to decide whether to buy the house or not. 
Our investigator noted that Miss M had read the survey, and the surveyor answered No on 
the valuation report in the section for Specialist reports required, so Miss M didnt think she 
needed to have any other reports or surveys done. But he said that the survey form also 
confirms that its just done for HSBC, and he set out the above disclaimer. He said this 
position is also confirmed in the mortgage conditions. And HSBC wasnt responsible for 
advising Mr S and Miss M on their purchase. 
Our investigator said Miss M had referred to the law on misrepresentations. But he said that 
didnt make any difference because the valuation wasnt completed by HSBC, and the terms 
and conditions make clear that HSBC wasnt giving any warranty for the value or condition of 
the property.
Our investigator said he had great sympathy for Miss M and Mr S, but he didnt think that 
what had gone wrong was HSBCs fault. 
Miss M replied to say that the property wasnt worth the amount the valuation said. And she 
also wanted to expand on her view that this was a misrepresentation. She set out some of 
the key elements of a misrepresentation, and explained that she thought this meant HSBC 
was responsible for putting things right. She also sent more photos of the property. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said HSBC isnt responsible for the valuation 
report, and it was completed only for it. And HSBC had been very clear that it wasnt making 
any representations (true or otherwise) about the value of the property to Miss M and Mr S. 
Miss M said she wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint, and she wanted me to 
address the following issue. The surveyors report was for valuation purposes to allow HSBC 
to assess the security offered by the property for the proposed loan for house purchase. But 
the valuation was wrong, because it didnt identify the subsidence. So the loan value was 
also wrong. If the surveyor had noticed the subsidence, less money would have been 
offered. The surveyor is responsible for doing the survey correctly, but didnt. So that placed 
HSBC, and ultimately them, at financial risk. They said they were suffering losses due to 
negligent services provided. 
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I should start by noting that our service does have regard to the relevant law, but we arent 
bound by it. My responsibility is to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
However, I will seek to address the issues that Miss M has raised. 
I dont know if Miss M and Mr S saw the survey report before they made their decision to 
purchase this property. If they didnt see that report, then they would not be able to show 
they relied on the contents of that report, in buying the house. And even if they did see the valuation, and the valuation did misrepresent the condition of 
the property, I still wouldnt agree that HSBC is liable for the repairs that Miss M and Mr S 
say are needed, or the money they say theyve lost. Thats because HSBC has been very, 
very clear about the purposes of the valuation. Its just for HSBC to use, as part of its 
decision on how much to lend. The valuation report itself makes clear that Miss M and Mr S 
shouldnt rely on it, when deciding whether to buy, and the mortgage conditions make the 
same point. So if they did rely on this report when they decided to buy, then I would say that 
wasnt reasonable, because they were very clearly warned not to do that. 
Miss M has also argued that the surveyor was negligent, and that HSBC used this 
information to reach a decision on how much to lend them. So this put HSBC, and in turn her 
and Mr S, at financial risk. However, I think the same core point applies to HSBCs decision 
to lend Miss M and Mr S a certain amount of money. 
HSBC has never suggested to Mr S and Miss M that they can use the amount its lending as 
a way of assessing the value of the house. And I dont think its reasonable for Miss M and 
Mr S to have made that assumption. The valuation HSBC obtains is only one of many 
factors in its lending decision. And its making a different assessment  its looking at the risk 
to it of not getting its money back. Thats just not the same as the risk to Miss M and Mr S of 
overpaying for their new home. 
I would like to pause briefly here just to say that Im very sorry to have heard about how this 
issue has affected Mr S and Miss M. I understand that they are first time buyers, and theyve 
told us about the impact this problem has had on them. So I understand why they would 
want HSBC to put things right for them. But Im sorry to have to tell them that I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to ask HSBC to do that. 
I know that Mr S and Miss M will be deeply disappointed, but I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman