DRN-2147254
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc has refused to buy back Travellers 
Cheques that it sold him in 1996.
What happened
Mr F says he bought $700 Travellers Cheques from The Co-op in 1996 but says it has 
refused to cash them. He says there is no expiry date on the Travellers Cheques and The 
Co-op ought to repurchase them from him.
The Co-op says it was an agent for the issuer of the Travellers Cheques, a business I will 
call C. It says it changed its terms and conditions and no longer issues or cashes 
Travellers Cheques.
Mr F brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought The Co-op had written to its customers in 2017 to tell them that it no longer issued or 
cashed Travellers Cheques. And thought that The Co-op no longer had a relationship with 
C.
Mr F says he didnt receive the 2017 letter and was not a customer of The Co-op at that 
time. He says he ought to have been told about the change and would like the Travellers 
Cheques refunded or honoured.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that I cant fairly order The Co-op to cash or 
refund the Traveller Cheques. I realise Mr F will be disappointed by my decision.
I accept that Mr F was not a customer of The Co-op when it made changes to the way in 
runs its business. So, I accept Mr F wouldnt have been told about the changes. But I dont 
think The Co-op would have known that Mr F, some 25 years after the Travellers Cheques 
had been sold, hadnt used them. I dont think in those circumstances it reasonable to have 
expected The Co-op to have kept Mr Fs details when he stopped being a customer in 2003 
and later told him about those changes.
Im satisfied that The Co-op sold the Travellers Cheques on behalf of C. I think The Co-op 
could have helped Mr F by directing him to C as it still has a presence in the United Kingdom 
or directed him to a business that could have helped him. I dont think The Co-op is under 
any obligation to cash the Travellers Cheques and I also think that it is unlikely to be able to 
in any event in the light of the changes it has made to its business practice. 
Overall, I cant fairly order The Co-op to honour or cash Travellers Cheques it sold on behalf 
of a different business nearly 25 years ago. I dont think it unreasonable for The Co-op in 
that 25- year period to have changed the way in which it operates but I accept it could have 
given Mr F more help in finding a business or bureau de change that could have helped him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman