DRN-2852109
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs F complain about their insurer, UKI Limited (UKI). Their complaint relates to the 
rejection of a claim for damage to a garden wall at their house. 
UKI use agents to administer the policy. Reference to UKI includes these agents.
What happened
 On 2 March 2020 Mr and Mrs F contacted UKI about a collapsed garden wall at their home. 
The wall had collapsed on 29 February 2020 during poor weather conditions in the area 
where Mr F and Mrs F live.
  
Mr and Mrs F sent photographs of the collapsed wall and the area adjacent to the wall to UKI 
to show the damage caused. UKI considered the claim but rejected it on 4 March 2020, on 
the grounds that fencing adjacent to the wall had not been destroyed, and that the fencing 
would have been more vulnerable to the weather at the time of the incident. They concluded 
that the damage to the wall looked to be due to existing maintenance or wear and tear 
issues that the wind had highlighted. They referred to the conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs 
policy, which contained an exclusion clause for damage arising from these causes. Their 
policy contained the following exclusions under the This policy doesnt cover heading:
Just like most insurers we dont cover:
Wear and tear
Loss or damage as a result of the lack of maintenance and/or routine 
decoration
Any damage caused gradually
Under the General conditions heading the policy also states:
Maintaining your buildings and contents
You must keep the buildingscovered under this policy in good condition.
Mr and Mrs F disputed UKIs rejection of their claim, asking for evidence to support UKIs 
view that the wall had collapsed due to a maintenance issue. Mr and Mrs F subsequently 
stated that they had information from the Met Office that wind speeds in their area on 29 
February were Hurricane Force on the Beaufort Scale. They also provided further photos of 
structures which they maintained had prevented the fence adjacent to the wall from 
collapsing. They were also concerned that UKI had not carried out a physical inspection of 
the damage, and only gone by the photographs they had provided.
UKI considered Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about the rejection of their claim. They rejected 
the complaint on 11 March 2020 and confirmed their initial rejection of the claim. This was on 
the basis that while there were storm force winds in Mr and Mrs Fs area on the date of the 
incident and the photographs showed damage to the wall, they did not show damage to the 
adjacent fence, which would have been more vulnerable. They maintained their view that the 
damage to the wall appeared to be due to existing maintenance issues and therefore 
excluded under the policy. UKI also noted that weather data they had obtained from another 
weather service indicated that the wind speeds in the area where Mr and Mrs F lived were 
63mph on 29 February (35mph on 2 March).
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy at the rejection of their claim and complained to this service in 
May 2020. The main issues of their complaint were that their claim should not have been 
declined, and that UKI did so without a physical inspection of the damage to the wall. They 
asked that their claim was met in full, including any consequential losses.
Our investigator considered the circumstances of the complaint, including the issues raised 
by Mr and Mrs F. In their initial view the investigator concluded that there had been storm 
force winds on the date of the incident and that the damage to the wall was consistent with 
that expected in a storm. They further concluded that the damage was caused by the storm, 
rather than by pre-existing maintenance issues. On this basis the investigator concluded that 
it wasnt fair for UKI to rely on the policy exclusion to reject the claim. UKI disputed the 
investigators findings. Principally UKI said that there werent storm force winds in Mr and 
Mrs Fs area on the date of the incident. They also maintained their view that the damage to 
the wall wasnt caused by the storm and was due to gradual deterioration over time.
 
The investigator considered the response from UKI but maintained their conclusions in a 
second view. The investigator recommended that UKI should assess Mr and Mrs Fs claim 
on the basis that storm conditions applied on the date of the incident. The investigator also 
recommended that if UKI accepted the claim after re-assessing it, they should cover any 
direct costs incurred by Mr and Mrs F as a result of the claim.
UKI disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
In my findings I disagreed with the investigators conclusion that UKI should assess Mr and 
Mrs Fs claim on the basis that storm conditions applied on the date of the incident and that 
the damage was caused by the storm, and that it was unfair to rely on the policy exclusion to 
reject the claim. I concluded that the storm was a factor in the walls collapse, but that there 
was some degree of wear and tear that contributed to the collapse. I also concluded that it 
would be reasonable to apportion cause between the storm and an element of wear and tear 
and lack of maintenance. I went on to conclude that a fair and reasonable outcome would be 
for UKI to settle the claim on the basis of an equal (50:50) split of the costs incurred by Mr 
and Mrs F in repairing the damaged wall. As this conclusion differed from the investigators 
conclusions, I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider 
things further. This is set out below.
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My role here is to decide whether UKI has acted fairly towards Mr and Mrs F.
With respect to the first part of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint, that their claim should not have 
been declined, I have looked at the three key issues we consider in complaints involving 
damage caused by storms:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?On the first question, Ive looked at all the information and evidence about the weather 
conditions on and around the date of the incident provided both by Mr and Mrs F and by UKI. 
This information is drawn from a number of sources, including the Met Office and other 
weather services. I also recognise that weather conditions can vary from location to location, 
sometimes where those locations are relatively near to each other. Im persuaded that there 
were storm force winds on the date of the incident (29 February) as was stated in UKIs Final 
Response Letter of 11 March 2020. As noted above, a wind speed of 63mph was given for 
the postcode where Mr and Mrs F live. This is above the threshold at which a storm is 
considered to have occurred  both by this service and by UKI. Ive noted that UKI accepts 
this point in their response to the investigators second view.
On the second question, Ive looked at the evidence from Mr and Mrs F, including 
photographs of the damaged wall and the area around it, and the views of UKI. It is clear 
from the photographs that a section of the wall has fallen over. We would expect to see this 
kind of damage from a storm, so Ive concluded that it is consistent with the damage that a 
storm would cause.
On the third question, the evidence is solely that provided by Mr and Mrs F and by UKI. UKI 
rejected the claim initially on the grounds of the absence of storm force winds and their 
conclusions from the photographic evidence and the lack of damage to the adjoining fence. 
UKI did not visit the property or otherwise obtain a report from an expert that could have 
concluded on the cause of the walls collapse. In the absence of any such expert evidence 
(from both UKI and from Mr and Mrs F) Ive considered the available evidence, including the 
photographs of the damaged wall and surrounding area. Ive also considered the views of 
UKI and of Mr and Mrs F. In doing so, I have to come to a conclusion  in the absence of 
any physical inspection or other expert evidence  based on what I consider most likely to 
have happened in the balance of probabilities.
Taking these in turn, Mr and Mrs F have said that the wall was well-built and that there was 
no evidence of deterioration. They have also said that the adjoining fence was supported by 
other structures, including ones in the garden of the neighbouring property and a large shrub 
in their own garden. And that this would explain why it remained standing when the wall fell 
over. They also state that they have been given no indication from UKI on what maintenance 
they would have been expected to carry out on the wall. 
Ive considered these points carefully, along with the photographs of the collapsed wall, the 
adjoining fence as well as the area of the garden more generally. Its clear that the damage 
is primarily to the wall, which has broken just above ground level and toppled over. While the 
adjoining fence is leaning, it hasnt toppled. I can also see that there does not appear to be 
significant damage to other structures in the vicinity of the collapsed wall. There is also some 
evidence of cracking in adjacent parts of the wall and deterioration (although its not possible 
to determine the extent to which this is superficial or indicative of more significant 
deterioration or weakness). Overall this suggests that, on the balance of probabilities, it is 
likely that there was at least some degree of weakness in the section of wall that collapsed. 
Its also possible that the adjoining fence may have been a contributory factor in the walls 
collapse.
Turning to UKI, their view is that they would not expect a wooden fence to have remained 
standing in a storm, whilst a brick wall fell over. The case notes for the complaint also say 
that Mr and Mrs F told them that the wall had been standing for some 50 years but had not 
had any maintenance carried out.
 
Ive also considered these points carefully. In particular, the wall was some 50 years old and 
no maintenance had been carried out. Ive also considered the points about adjoining 
structures and mature shrubbery, which Mr and Mrs F contend supported the fence and prevented it from being toppled in the storm. But its also possible that the same structures 
and shrubs may have had an impact on the wall itself, over time, and on its integrity. The 
photographs of the wall also show some signs of weathering, which I would expect given its 
age and location.
 
Taken together with the evidence that there were storm conditions at the time of the 
collapse, and that the nature of the damage is consistent that we would expect to see from a 
storm, Ive concluded that the storm was a factor in the walls collapse. But Ive also 
concluded that there was some degree of wear and tear that contributed to the collapse. In 
the absence of clear, expert evidence Ive concluded that both factors combined to lead to 
the collapse.
On this basis, Ive concluded that UKI didnt act fairly in declining Mr and Mrs Fs claim in its 
entirety as it was not likely, on the balance of probabilities, to have been solely or primarily 
caused by wear and tear and a lack of maintenance. 
For these reasons Ive concluded that it would be reasonable to apportion cause between 
the storm and an element of wear and tear and lack of maintenance. I understand from Mr 
and Mrs F that they have now paid to have the damaged wall removed and the wall itself 
rebuilt. Together with the elapse of time, I dont believe that seeking additional, expert 
evidence is likely to provide a definitive cause of the collapse.
 
In these circumstances, my view is that a fair and reasonable outcome would be for UKI 
Limited to settle the claim on the basis of an equal (50:50) split of: the costs incurred by Mr 
and Mrs F in repairing the damaged wall (the sums paid for the damaged wall to be removed 
and for the wall to be rebuilt) less any excess that would apply to a claim under the policy. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint in part. I intend to require UK Insurance Limited to settle Mr and Mrs Fs claim on 
the basis of an equal (50:50) split of:
 
othe costs incurred by Mr and Mrs F in repairing the damaged wall (the sums 
paid for the damaged wall to be removed and for the wall to be rebuilt) less 
any excess that would apply to a claim under the policy.   
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision.
 
Mr and Mrs F provided comments on a number of points, the principal ones that I think are 
relevant to my decision are:
Mr and Mrs F believe that brick walls are maintenance-free and arent aware of what 
any such maintenance might entail.
The shrubs and other structures did not affect the wall and they were not in contact 
with it (the only structure that was being the adjoining fence).
The point in the provisional decision that wind pressure on the fence may have 
contributed to the collapse of the wall runs contrary to the view of UKI.
The wall sheared three brick courses above ground level and that rebuilding of the 
wall didnt require modification of the base of the wall in two dimensions. Thereby 
indicating that there wasnt an issue with the foundations.
UKI responded to say that they had no further comments.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered Mr and Mrs Fs comments carefully. On their first point about maintenance, 
it isnt our role to set out maintenance requirements. But it is relevant to our consideration in 
cases of this nature to look at whether there is evidence about any maintenance issues, or 
whether there is clear evidence of maintenance having been carried out or  as in this case 
 there is clear evidence of the absence of maintenance. As I said in my provisional 
decision, the evidence indicated some wear and tear on the wall, which is to be expected 
given its age. I also referred to there being some evidence of cracking in adjacent parts of 
the wall and deterioration, which I think should have indicated the need to consider 
inspection and remediation work as appropriate. I think these factors are relevant in coming 
to a conclusion, on the balance of probabilities, on what led the wall to collapse.
Taking the next two comments together as they are linked, then I accept that the shrubs and 
other structures werent in contact with the wall, but that the fence was. The fence being in 
contact with the wall (joined to it) would have meant that wind acting on the fence would 
thereby also have acted on the wall. This would be in addition to the wind acting directly on 
the wall. Regarding my view being contrary to that of UKI, I dont think that changes my view. 
And UKI have not sought to challenge it either.
 
On the last point, I had already recognised this when I stated in my provisional decision that 
the damage is primarily to the wall, which has broken just above ground level and toppled 
over.
 
Based on my consideration of the comments I have received, I havent changed my view 
that both the storm and some degree of wear and tear and lack of maintenance contributed 
to the collapse. And that it would be reasonable to apportion cause between the storm and 
an element of wear and tear and lack of maintenance. So my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint in 
part. I require UK Insurance Limited to settle Mr and Mrs Fs claim on the basis of an equal 
(50:50) split of:
 
othe costs incurred by Mr and Mrs F in repairing the damaged wall (the sums 
paid for the damaged wall to be removed and for the wall to be rebuilt) less 
any excess that would apply to a claim under the policy.   
Mr and Mrs F should provide evidence of the costs that they have incurred in repairing the 
damaged wall, such as invoices from contractors. As appropriate, this evidence should also 
include any element of VAT in those costs, which should also be reimbursed.
UK Insurance Limited must pay the costs within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mr and Mrs F accept my final decision.  If they pay later than this they must also pay interest 
on the costs from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman