DRN-3983331
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd unfairly placed a fraud marker against his name and 
closed his bank account.   
What happened
Mr A had an account with Monzo. 
In May 2021, Mr A says that a friend from school, who I will refer to as B, asked if he could 
use Mr As account to receive money. Mr A says that B constantly pestered him over a 
number of months and after initially refusing, he eventually agreed and allowed B to use his 
account. Mr A says that as part of the arrangement B asked him to log into his Monzo bank 
account using Bs mobile phone. 
After B had gained access to Mr As account, a series of payments were made into the 
account and were then transferred out to other bank accounts. Following this, Monzo were 
contacted by other banks who reported that their customers had been the victims of scams 
and that the payments had been made fraudulently.
Monzo blocked all of Mr As accounts and decided it needed to look into how Mr A was 
operating his account. Following its review, it placed a fraud marker against Mr As name 
with CIFAS, the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System. And it decided to close Mr As 
account immediately. 
After learning that Monzo had recorded a marker against him, Mr A complained to Monzo 
and asked them to remove the marker as it was preventing him from opening a bank 
account. Monzo looked into Mr As complaint but said it wouldnt remove the marker. So, 
Mr A brought his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As complaint. She didnt think Monzo had done 
enough to show that Mr A was complicit in fraud and said it had unfairly recorded the fraud 
marker against Mr A.  Monzo disagreed. It said it had enough evidence that Mr A was 
involved in fraudulent activities  even if it was as a third party. Monzo said it had also  
amended the marker to record that Mr A had acted as a third party fraud facilitator by 
surrendering/selling his account details.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo recorded against Mr A is intended to record that theres been a 
misuse of facility  in this case using an account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file 
such a marker, Monzo isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr A is guilty of 
a financial crime, but they must show there are grounds for more than mere suspicion of 
concern. CIFAS guidelines say:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; and
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police
What this means in practice is that the bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr As account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was or might be an illegitimate 
payment. This can include Mr A allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive 
an illegitimate payment. A marker should not be registered against someone who was 
unwitting, there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
Ive considered the guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives fraudulent 
payments into their account like this  acting as whats commonly referred to as a money 
mule. And the relevant factors in deciding whether Mr A was deliberately complicit in what 
happened include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt 
legitimate, whether he may have benefitted from the money by keeping some of the funds 
and whether he has provided generic or inconsistent explanations. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention.
In order to determine Mr As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr As account and that he was complicit in this. 
Its important to note that Monzo had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of this test 
for it to have acted fairly and reasonably.
From looking at the evidence its not in dispute that the payments which were paid into Mr 
As account in May 2021 were fraudulent. Monzo received several fraud notifications from 
different banks explaining that their customers had been scammed into making the 
payments. However, this isnt enough to register a fraud marker against Mr A. Monzo also 
has to produce sufficient evidence to show that Mr A was complicit in fraud. And I dont think 
it has done that here.
Monzo doesnt appear to have carried out any sort of investigation into Mr As actions once it 
had received the notifications from the other banks. It simply blocked Mr As account and 
then sent him a letter telling him that it was closing his account. So, Monzo didnt give Mr A 
an opportunity to provide his explanation for what had happened. This makes me question 
how Monzo could have assessed Mr As knowledge and intention as complicit  which it was 
required to do before it recorded the fraud marker against him. This is in itself unfair. 
Mr A has explained that he allowed B to use his account after he had been pestered for a 
number of months by B. Hes consistently said that he had no idea his account was being 
used for fraudulent purposes, and in hindsight accepts he was very nave, especially when 
he allowed B to log into his account using his own mobile device. Mr As story has been 
consistent and credible. And its backed up the technical records provided by Monzo, which 
show that a different mobile device was used to log into Mr As account in May 2021. It was 
this device that was used to move the fraudulent funds to other accounts, which tends to 
support Mr As explanation that it was B making the transactions.    Having looked at the fraud reports Monzo received from the other banks, I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr A was involved in the scams. And Ive not seen any evidence that Monzo 
thought this. Ive also not seen any evidence that Mr A benefitted from any of the fraudulent 
funds that were paid into his account.  From looking at Mr As bank statement it appears all 
the money was either forwarded on to other accounts unrelated to Mr A or returned to the 
victims of the scams. This all tends to support the possibility that Mr A was taken advantage 
of or was coerced as hes said, as opposed to him being a witting participant in fraud, 
including that Mr A knew he was helping pass on the proceeds of fraud. Id question why 
Mr A would knowingly participate in fraud if he didnt stand to benefit from it. So, whilst I can 
understand Monzos concerns, Im not satisfied that Mr A was deliberately complicit in 
receiving fraudulent funds. And I dont believe placing a marker against Mr A was 
proportionate based on what happened. Nor am I convinced Monzo have met the industry 
best practice guidelines when placing this marker. 
Monzo has said it has recently amended the marker it has recorded against Mr A with CIFAS 
to show that Mr A was a third party fraud facilitator  that he surrendered his account details 
and was used as a money mule. It says because of the number of individual fraud reports 
that it received for the same type of scam, it is fair to assume that Mr As account and Mr A 
is involved in fraudulent activities, even if its third party involvement. 
Ive thought about what Monzo has said. Its not I dispute that Mr A was used as a money 
mule. But the mere fact that fraudulent funds passed through Mr As account doesnt on its 
own mean its fair or reasonable to record fraud maker against his name. Most importantly, it 
is Monzos responsibility to demonstrate that Mr A was knowingly part of the fraud. And I 
think it has failed to do that in this particular case. Monzo needs to have relevant and 
rigorous evidence such that it could report the matter to police. In other words, a reasonable 
suspicion that Mr A knew fraud would take place when he provided his account details to B. 
Simply pointing out that fraudulent activity took place  especially when this isnt in dispute, 
isnt enough to meet the standards required by CIFAS. Especially seeing as the facts of the 
and circumstances of this case appear to support Mr As version of events being plausible.
In summary, when I weigh everything up, I dont consider Monzo had sufficient evidence to 
meet the test for recording a fraud marker against Mr A. So, Monzo needs to remove any 
fraud markers it has recorded. 
Finally, Ive looked at Monzos decision to close Mr As account. Banks are entitled to end 
their business relationship with a customer, as long as its done fairly and is in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. The terms and conditions of Mr As account say that 
Monzo can close an account in certain circumstances immediately. Given the concerns 
Monzo had about how Mr A was operating his account, I dont think thats unreasonable. So, 
it was entitled to close the account as its already done and end its relationship with Mr A.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, to put things right Monzo Bank Ltd should remove any fraud 
markers it has recorded against Mr A.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Sharon KerrisonOmbudsman