DRN-2382028
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE acted unfairly and unreasonably by 
offering them credit towards a future travel insurance policy when they havent been able to 
use their original policy due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr and Mr F had a worldwide annual travel insurance policy with Great Lakes taken out on 
15 July 2019 and covering them between 30 September 2019 and 29 September 2020. 
They expected to travel abroad in April 2020 for a family occasion, but due to the Covid-19 
pandemic, they were unable to travel. Mr and Mrs F asked Great Lakes for a premium 
refund on 8 April 2020. Great Lakes explained that the policy could be cancelled and a pro-
rata credit for the unused part would be given and used towards a policy with 15 months 
cover for the price of a 12 month policy.
In May 2020, Mr and Mrs F complained to Great Lakes. Great Lakes didnt change its 
position but offered credit to be put towards a deferred annual policy in the future as an 
alternative  cover had to start within 12 months of purchase of the policy.
Mr and Mrs F complained to us. Great Lakes said the offers were in place until 31 July 2020 
and had calculated its offer as if the policy had been cancelled on 8 April 2020. This led to a 
credit calculation of £331.46. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. He said that Mr and Mrs F werent entitled to a refund under the cooling-off period 
rules or the terms and conditions of the policy; theyd received the benefit of cover in case 
they needed to cancel a trip and make a claim. The investigator thought that the offer made 
by Great Lakes were fair and reasonable, were more than Mr and Mrs F were entitled to, 
and werent unduly restrictive.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed. They said that due to their age, they mightnt travel again and the 
trip arranged for April 2020 was now cancelled. They wanted a cash refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Any reference to Great Lakes also refers to its agents. 
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs F held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says: 
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that relates to 
the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is material 
unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate method. The sum 
should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry 
rules, even if Mr and Mrs F had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they wouldnt have been 
entitled to a full refund of the premium paid. 
The policy terms and conditions 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their 
cancellation rights under the contract. These say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. If 
the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will be 
refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Mr and Mrs Fs cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to 
them than is required by industry rules. But Mr and Mrs Fs policy was purchased on 15 July 
2019 and wasnt cancelled.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider 
the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of 
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term 
relating to discretion is intended to cover. 
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs F is entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms 
and conditions of the contract with Great Lakes. 
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances?
 
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. I understand why any future travel plans which Mr and Mrs F might have had during the 
remainder of the policy year  and therefore the need for this annual multi-trip insurance 
policy  changed due to circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought about 
whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and 
the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs contract because of the exceptional and 
extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Fs 
contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 30 September 
2019. 
Mr and Mrs F were insured from that date for travelling on any number of trips of up to 35 
days duration which they may have taken until the policy was cancelled. Because of the way 
annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing how many such 
trips Mr and Mrs F took (unless Mr and Mrs F made a claim under the policy). There may 
have been many trips or there may have been none, but Great Lakes was covering the risk 
of a claim during the time the policy was in force, including claims due to declared pre-
existing medical conditions.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mr and Mrs F for cancellation of any holidays which 
they had booked and were due to take from the policy start date until the date the policy 
ended. So, Mr and Mrs F would have been covered if they had to cancel any number of 
holidays because of any listed events insured under the policy. 
So, Great Lakes covered the risk of Mr and Mrs F making a successful cancellation claim for 
any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of holidays, from 
the policy start date until the date the policy ended. Its a fundamental principle of insurance 
law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time 
 the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr and Mrs Fs cancellation 
rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered. 
The policy wasnt cancelled by Mr and Mrs F but Great Lakes was willing to act as if they 
had cancelled the policy on 8 April 2020. So, based on the unique and unprecedented 
circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable 
for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs F with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for 
their annual multi-trip travel insurance policy from the date the policy could have been 
cancelled.
How the refund should be paid 
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mr and Mrs Fs 
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable to both parties. 
Mr and Mrs F entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium in return for Great 
Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. Paying a refund by 
way of a credit means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a future date. 
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to 
Mr and Mrs F. I think that credit, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that 
credit being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances. The credit which Great Lakes has offered can be used to buy a future travel insurance policy 
 either for a 15 month period or on a deferred basis.
 
I understand why Mr and Mrs F may not wish to use credit and would prefer a cash refund. 
However, I dont think the terms of Great Lakes voucher are unreasonably restrictive, so I 
think the voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances. People travel these days regardless of 
their age and the policy covered the whole world. And while the family occasion Mr and Mrs 
F were planning to attend in April 2020 has been cancelled, the voucher allows them the 
choice to use the voucher towards a range of different policies including a range of 
destinations.
The calculation of the voucher 
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and 
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period 
of cover. 
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly. 
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
incidence of risk across the life of its annual multi-trip travel insurance policies. And Im 
satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly or any differently to other 
customers in similar circumstances. 
The voucher value has been calculated based on Mr and Mrs Fs unused period of standard 
travel insurance cover. The premium Mr and Mrs F paid for this policy was for a period of 
approximately 365 days from the policy start date to the original policy end date. The value 
of the voucher which Great Lakes has offered to Mr and Mrs F equates to the premiums 
equivalent to 175 unused days of cover from the date the policy could have been cancelled 
until the original end date of the insurance policy on 29 September 2020. This reflects the 
fact that Great Lakes wasnt covering any further risk under the policy from 8 April 2020. Its 
offer was calculated on the basis that there wouldnt be any further risk from 8 April 2020 if 
Mr and Mrs F accepted the offer of the refund.
I think the offer made by Great Lakes at the time it sent the final response letter was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont be asking Great Lakes to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Mr and Mrs F whether 
to accept the offer if it remains available for acceptance. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to accept or reject my decision 
before 2 April 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman