DRN-4398664
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt provide them with a 
breakdown of their commercial property insurance premium. 
Mr S has acted as the main representative during the complaint process. So, for ease of 
reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mrs S or Mr S as 
Mr S throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mr S has multiple properties insured with UKI under a commercial insurance policy. Mr S 
asked UKI to provide a breakdown of his 2022 policy showing the individual price for each of 
the properties under the policy, and he explained he required this for tax purposes. UKI 
explained they couldnt provide this so Mr S complained. 
UKI responded and explained theyre unable to provide a price breakdown under Mr Ss 
policy, and they couldnt set out the price per property or the price of each section of cover 
under a property. They said, when a customer takes a quote from them, it can be taken for 
an individual property under one policy, or a property can be added to an existing policy. 
They said, in the case of the latter, the price per property isnt available for them to view 
which is the reason they cant provide Mr S with these figures. They said when multiple 
properties are added onto one policy, it is one policy premium, policy reference and renewal 
date  and the price charged is for the overall risk. They did explain one way which would 
give Mr S an estimate of the individual premium for each property, but because of the way in 
which the discount is applied, it wouldnt provide accurate figures. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S and Mr S. He thought UKI had made an error in 
not taking adequate steps to assist Mr S and recommended they pay £150 compensation. 
Mrs S and Mr S and UKI disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. The primary dispute here relates to UKI not providing Mr S with a 
breakdown of the premium for each of his properties. While Mr S is aware of the total 
premium for his commercial property policy, he wants UKI to provide him with a breakdown 
showing the premium for each of his properties individually. UKI say, where a customer has 
one policy covering multiple properties, the rating is worked out within their inbuilt risk 
assessment tool. They say one price is provided for all properties insured. They also say 
customers benefit from a discount  the more properties per policy the greater the discount.    
UKI say Mr Ss properties are all covered under one policy and, because any discounts are 
applied based on the number of properties on the policy, they cant provide a precise price 
for each individual property as the discount is provided overall. They say the price per 
property isnt available for them to view which is why the breakdown couldnt be provided. 
They say the best way to estimate how much a customer is paying per property is to remove 
a property (to see how much the price reduces) and then add it back on - but this is an 
estimate only as removing a property also reduces the overall discount.
I can see Mr S is concerned by UKIs explanation as, when it came to his 2023 renewal, UKI 
did provide him with a breakdown. Mr S says he informed UKI he wouldnt renew unless they 
provided an individual breakdown  so he believes they couldve provided a similar 
breakdown for his 2022 policy. Our investigator has raised this with UKI, and they explain 
the only way to obtain an estimate is to remove and add properties, but these amendments 
can only be made to live policies, which is why they were able to do it for the active 2023 
policy. They say, once a policy year has passed, amendments cant be made to it on the 
system. Our investigator also queried why a breakdown wasnt offered to Mr S for the 2022 
policy and UKI say they wouldnt offer a breakdown for the previous year as its not 
something they offer in line with their business process  and all theyve been able to 
provide for the 2023 policy is an estimate based on removing and adding properties.  
I acknowledge the points made by UKI, but I dont believe the level of service provided to   
Mr S was reasonable here. Its not in dispute that its possible to calculate a breakdown 
because UKI have provided this for Mr Ss 2023 policy. Its also not in dispute that the 
figures provided wont be fully accurate. Mr S says he understands that removing one 
property at a time will only provide an estimate of the individual premium for that property, or 
very close to it. Mr S says he understands the position in relation to the overall discount and 
how any individual figures provided through the breakdown wont be wholly accurate. Case 
notes provided by UKI show Mr S complained about not being given a breakdown. UKI then 
respond and explain the reasons theyre unable to provide a breakdown and why this isnt 
available to view on their system. 
I cant say UKI have made an error if their system doesnt allow them to view an exact and 
precise breakdown. And, given how the discount works, I understand why it might not be 
possible for UKIs system to hold the information in this way. But they do offer a solution 
when speaking with Mr S and also in their complaint response. UKI have provided call notes 
which show a call handler did explain to Mr S theyre unable to provide a breakdown of the 
premium for each individual property. They explain the only way they could give an estimate 
is to remove one property and give an average of each property based on the total amount 
of the premium. The call note says, But this is not a correct process and would not give the 
customer a clear understanding of how much each [property] cost. Theres a further call the 
following day and UKI say Mr S explains he could get fined for providing false information to 
the HMRC. UKI then send their complaint response and explain, The best way to gain an 
estimate over how much you are paying per property is to remove the property to see 
how much the price reduces and then add it back on. 
So, when dealing with Mr Ss query at this point, Ive looked to see whether UKI took all 
reasonable steps and did all they could to assist Mr S  and I dont think they did. I say this 
because, having offered Mr S a potential solution, I dont believe they provided him with 
sufficient information to enable him to make an informed decision. Firstly, when responding 
to our service, UKI explain, in order to complete the remove/add process, Mr S needed to 
speak with their sales team who are authorised to make those changes. But I cant see this 
was explained to Mr S in the complaint response. Its clear Mr S wanted a breakdown, and while I accept UKI made it clear this wouldnt provide Mr S with precise and exact figures, I 
think they should still have set out the steps Mr S would need to take if he did want to take 
up UKIs suggestion.  
Im further persuaded UKI didnt take all reasonable steps and provide adequate information 
to Mr S because they didnt explain to him at the time of his query that the breakdown for the 
2022 policy would only be available for another couple of months. UKI explain their process 
doesnt allow them to remove and add properties to calculate a breakdown for a policy which 
is no longer active  and they can only take these steps in relation to a current and active 
policy. So, the breakdown for the 2022 policy cant now be obtained. 
I can see UKI addressed Mr Ss complaint in December 2022  just under two months prior 
to Mr Ss 2022 policy expiring. UKI will be aware of their processes and will have known that 
once the policy renews in February 2023, it will no longer be possible to get a breakdown 
estimate for the 2022 policy using the remove/add process. So, I think there was a missed 
opportunity here for UKI to take all reasonable steps and provide Mr S with as much 
information as they could to assist him in making an informed decision. 
I accept the breakdown wouldnt have provided fully accurate figures, but UKI shouldve 
explained to Mr S this is all they can do, and this is only available until the next renewal date 
 after which no breakdown estimate can be provided. I cant say for certain whether this 
breakdown estimate wouldve given Mr S the detail he needed, but I cant see Mr S has 
complained about the 2023 breakdown estimate. So, I dont think its unreasonable for me to 
conclude the same format of information for the 2022 policy would likely have provided Mr S 
with what he required. Either way, the reason Im upholding this complaint is because UKI 
didnt provide Mr S with sufficient information about the process to enable him to make an 
informed decision while the 2022 policy was still active and before the breakdown estimate 
was no longer going to be available. 
I note UKI say they didnt offer Mr S a breakdown for the 2022 policy as its not something 
they offer customers. They say its not part of their process and theyve always explained 
they cant provide exact and precise figures. They say they cant promote a service which 
doesnt provide accurate figures. While I accept the remove/add process might not be UKIs 
usual business process, it was set out as an option in their complaint response. So, having 
highlighted it as a potential option for Mr S to get some information, I think this demonstrates 
UKI were prepared to go outside of their usual business process to provide Mr S with the 
breakdown. 
I do understand UKIs concern about offering a service which doesnt produce accurate 
figures, but in this case, Im not saying UKI should have a process where they offer this 
service proactively. What Im saying here is that UKI were clearly prepared to adopt the 
remove/add process for Mr Ss 2022 policy. And while Mr S might well have been asking for 
exact figures, he wouldve been in a more informed position to decide whether a breakdown 
estimate would be satisfactory for him in the knowledge that in a couple of months not even 
this will be available. 
UKI also say they dont offer this as it wouldnt be right to offer a process that doesnt provide 
accurate figures for a customer to use for tax purposes. I do understand UKIs point about 
providing information which wouldnt be fully accurate when a customer has expressed their 
intention to use it for tax purposes. And I do acknowledge UKIs concern about having this 
as a service given that the HMRC should be given correct and complete information. But, 
UKI have provided a breakdown for the 2023 policy and also made it clear the figures arent 
wholly accurate. I dont think its unreasonable in the circumstances for UKI to caveat the 
information theyve provided if they have concerns about how the information will be used. I think its important to make clear Im not directing UKI to change their process or directing 
them on what their process should be - as our service doesnt have the power to make such 
a direction. It appears Mr Ss policy will be due for renewal in February 2024  and I 
acknowledge UKI say the provision of the breakdown for the 2023 policy represents a 
departure from their business process. My decision in this complaint doesnt mean UKI must 
now continue providing Mr S with a similar breakdown  as this is down to their process. In 
this case, the reason Ive upheld the complaint isnt because UKI didnt have a usual 
business process requiring them to provide Mr S with the breakdown information in 2022. 
But rather its because they didnt provide Mr S with sufficient information to enable him to 
make an informed decision on whether to accept the breakdown estimate they were willing 
to provide for the 2022 policy.      
I understand Mr S feels UKI should refund the premium for the 2022 policy year to prevent 
any incorrect information being submitted to the HMRC. I acknowledge Mr Ss point, but I 
dont think that would be reasonable in the circumstances. The premiums have been paid for 
UKI to provide cover for Mr Ss properties  and this is something UKI have done. Even 
though UKI didnt provide Mr S with the breakdown requested, he has received the benefit of 
having his properties insured  and this is why the premiums have been paid to UKI. So, I 
cant ask UKI to refund the premium for 2022.  
Taking this all into account, I think Mr S has been caused frustration at the missed 
opportunity to make an informed decision. It might well have been the case that Mr S 
mightve decided that some information, even though it might not have been wholly accurate, 
is better than no information. Given that UKI were prepared to do the breakdown and 
calculations for Mr S to get an estimate for his 2022 policy, I understand why hes frustrated 
hes now in a position where he cant get any information now. So, I think compensation of 
£150 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I wish to reassure Mrs S and Mr S and UKI Ive read and considered everything theyve sent 
in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that UKI havent provided Mr S with sufficient information to enable him to 
make an informed decision. So, they should pay Mrs S and Mr S £150 compensation for the 
frustration caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. U K Insurance Limited must pay Mrs S and 
Mr S £150 compensation.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman