DRN-4360612
The complaint
Mr A says Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo), didnt do enough to help when he fell victim to an 
authorised push payment (APP) romance/investment scam. He says Monzo should 
reimburse him for the money he lost.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
In summary, Mr A fell victim to a romance investment scam.  Mr A met someone through a 
dating website and, after a period of time, was convinced to invest.
Mr A made the following transfers to a cryptocurrency account in his own name:
Date Type of transfer Amount
19/07/2021 Faster payment to own cryptocurrency account £1,000
05/08/2021 Faster payment to own cryptocurrency account £1,000
12/08/2021 Faster payment to own cryptocurrency account £3,030
12/08/2021 Faster payment to own cryptocurrency account £325
Total £5,355
Unfortunately Mr A had in fact been duped by fraudsters. Mr A uncovered that he had fallen 
victim to a scam when he was unable to withdraw any funds / profits.
Mr A reported the matter to Monzo on 18 May 2022. Monzo looked into things and on 
21 May 2022 responded advising it didnt consider it was liable for the losses Mr A incurred. 
Mr A formally complained through a representative in August 2022 and Monzo issued its 
final response letter on 18 October 2022, remaining of the opinion that it wasnt liable for the 
losses Mr A incurred.  
Unhappy, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. Our Investigator reviewed the matter 
and initially didnt recommend the complaint be upheld to which Mr A disagreed. The 
Investigator then reviewed the matter again and considered that Monzo could have done 
more to prevent Mr As losses when he made the payment of £3,030. So they thought 
Monzo should reimburse Mr A in full for payments three and four. And they didnt think Mr A 
should share any responsibility for the loss. Mr A agreed with the Investigators opinion, but 
Monzo disagreed.
As the matter wasnt resolved, it was referred to me to review and make a final decision on 
the outcome of Mr As complaint.
I considered the complaint and issued a provisional decision as I was minded to reach a 
different outcome to that of our Investigator.
In summary, I considered Monzos decision not to refund Mr A in this instance was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I said this because Monzo followed Mr As instructions to 
make the transfers and I hadnt seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And as the 
funds Mr A transferred were exchanged into cryptocurrency and moved on, there wasnt 
anything further Monzo could do to help Mr A recover his funds.
Both parties had until 15 September 2023 in which to respond to my provisional decision and 
provide any more comments and evidence they wished for me to consider. Monzo confirmed 
it had received my provisional decision and accepted the findings I had reached. Mr A 
through his representatives disagreed. Mr A considered the third payment (of £3,030) was 
suspicious  so Monzo should have done more to prevent the loss at this point. Mr A also 
raised that Monzo are aware of the higher risk attached to cryptocurrency accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. Ill reiterate my 
findings below and will also comment on the additional points Mr A raised. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Monzo should have done more to prevent Mr As losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
Having thought carefully about Monzos actions, Im not intending on upholding Mr As 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him. Mr A was a victim of a cruel 
scam. But in weighing everything up, I dont think I can fairly say Monzo should reimburse 
him. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
Here, Mr A carried out the bank transfers himself from his Monzo account to his own 
cryptocurrency account. So it is the case that Mr A authorised all the transfers that are in 
dispute. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Mr A is responsible for them. That remains the case 
even though Mr A was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a Firm to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, Firms like Monzo have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.In this case, I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr A when he made the transfers, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. Having done so, I cant fairly say that any of the transfers 
Mr A made in relation to the scam would (or should) have alerted Monzo that Mr A was at 
risk of financial harm, to an extent whereby it should have carried out some additional 
checks, before processing the transfers. So I dont consider Monzo are liable for the losses 
Mr A incurred. Ill explain why.
I have to be mindful that banks / payment service providers process a high volume of 
transfers and transactions each day. And Firms have to strike a balance as to when it should 
possibly intervene on a payment against not holding up or delaying its customers requests. 
Mr A made a transfer of £1,000 on 19 July 2021 and then a further £1,000 just over two 
weeks later on 5 August 2021. I dont consider there is anything unusual or remarkable 
about the transfers or the amounts that ought to have alerted Monzo to the possibility Mr A 
was being scammed or was at risk of financial harm. I appreciate Mr A then made a further 
payment of £3,030  but this was a week later on 12 August 2021. Again, there isnt 
anything remarkable about this transfer or the amount that reasonably should have given 
Monzo any cause for concern.
So, here, Mr A made three transfers over three weeks. I dont find this to be unusual or a 
pattern of activity that would have given Monzo cause for concern. Had Mr A made multiple 
transfers in a very short space of time, it may have been arguable to suggest that Monzo 
might have had a concern  as making multiple payments in a short space of time can be an 
indicator that someone may be at risk of financial harm. But when I consider the value of 
these transfers, alongside the time period in which they were made, to my mind, it wouldnt 
have been an indicator to Monzo that Mr A was at risk to an extent whereby it ought to have 
questioned him further about the transfers.
Overall, I dont think there were grounds for Monzo to be suspicious Mr A may be a victim of 
fraud when he made the transfers to such an extent where I would expect them to intervene 
and carry out some additional checks or question him further about the transfers. So I cant 
fairly say Monzo could have prevented his losses or is liable in some way.
Recovery of the funds
I have also considered whether Monzo did all it could to try and recover the money Mr A lost. 
Given Mr A sent the funds to a cryptocurrency account in his own name  with his money 
being converted into cryptocurrency and moved on  there wasnt anything further Monzo 
could do to help Mr A recover his funds. 
Summary
In summary, while I appreciate Mr As been the unfortunate victim of a cruel scam, I think 
Monzos decision not to refund him in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because Monzo followed Mr As instructions to make the transfers 
and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. Unfortunately, given the 
funds Mr A transferred were exchanged into cryptocurrency and moved on, there wasnt 
anything further Monzo could do to help Mr A recover his funds.I appreciate that Mr A considers the transfer of £3,030 was suspicious  however I disagree. 
And my reasoning was set out within my provisional findings. However I would add that 
customers can make larger payments and to cryptocurrency accounts. Here, I dont think the 
amount in and of itself would have stood out to Monzo, where I might expect them to carry 
out some additional checks. I am in agreement that there has been a rise in cryptocurrency 
investment scams, however the transfers in question here were made in mid-2021. And to 
my mind, there wasnt a suspicious enough pattern in the transfers Mr A made that would 
reasonably have put Monzo on notice that Mr A was potentially at risk of financial harm.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr A, he was the victim of a cruel scam and lost money to the 
scammer, however I cant fairly say Monzo should have prevented the loss and therefore 
arent liable to reimburse Mr A.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman