DRN-4310521
The complaint
Mr N complains about a declined claim on his motor insurance policy with Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr N and Calpe Insurance. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr N had a collision with a parked car. He says he was distracted by an argument in his car 
with his passenger and he collided with the parked car. He made a claim on his motor 
insurance policy which was ultimately declined  but Calpe did settle the finance agreement 
on Mr Ns car, pending their full investigation of the claim. They later declined the claim (for 
driving whilst unfit  due to being under the influence of alcohol) and then requested their 
outlay from Mr N.
Mr N complained to Calpe, but as he remained unhappy he referred it to our Service for an 
independent review. Our Investigator considered the complaint and recommended it be 
upheld. That is, Calpe needed to settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
As Calpe didnt accept the recommendations, the complaint was referred to me for a 
decision. I recently sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended findings where I set 
out that I wasnt intending to uphold this complaint. As the deadline for responses has now 
passed, Ive considered the complaint for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service.
Why did Calpe decline this claim?
Calpe declined this claim, relying on the following exclusion:
This Policy does not provide cover for any loss, damage, accident or injury, other 
than the Underwriters are required to provide in accordance with the Road Traffic 
Act, occurring whilst Your Car is being driven by You or any person permitted to drive 
under this Policy should it be proved to the Underwriters satisfaction [bold added 
for emphasis by Ombudsman] that the driver was under the influence of drink or 
drugs.
A conviction under the relevant law (including a conviction for failing to supply 
a specimen of breath, blood, or urine) shall be deemed to be conclusive 
evidence of the condition of the driver at the time and date of the occurrence 
giving rise to the conviction. [Bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman]
If the Underwriters are required to pay a claim under the Road Traffic Law as a result 
of Drink/ Drugs driving the Underwriters reserve their right to recover from You and/or 
the person who incurred the liability any amount paid out which the Underwriters 
would not have been liable to pay had the law not existed. A conviction for 
Drink/Drugs offence will result in the immediate cancellation of Your Policy.
I will return to the policy terms later in my decision. Calpe say that Mr N was under the 
influence of alcohol at the time of the collision and only provided a sample a few hours 
afterwards. They argued that, had he provided a sample shortly after the collision, itd likely 
have produced a higher reading. Although Ive noted Mr Ns comments about there being no 
evidence to show he was over the legal drink driving limit at the time of the collision - my role 
here is to decide if, on balance, Calpe have fairly and reasonably considered the claim 
before reaching the position theyve taken here.
Mr N failed to provide a sample (breath) at the roadside. Hes provided a number of 
explanations as to why this was the case  including:
it was coming up as inconclusive (notification of loss call with the business), 
the breathalyser machine was unable to take a reading at the scene (complaint 
form), 
He wasnt doing it properly (indemnity call with business),
The roadside test possibly did not get a reading as I was shaken up by what was 
happening, as well as never having done one before, or the device that was used 
was faulty (email to our Service 14 February 2023) and, most recently;
that a mental health condition impacted his physical ability to give a sample (in 
response to my provisional decision).
He was arrested for failing to provide a sample, but did later provide a sample at the police 
station at around 5.45am  which was under the legal drink driving limit of 35 micrograms 
(MG) of alcohol per 100 millilitres (ML) of breath. Mr N has said the delay in getting to the 
police station was because his passenger needed to be cut out from the car.
Ive weighed up what Mr N has said about failing to provide a sample at the roadside 
alongside the position Calpe have taken. On balance, based on the evidence provided by 
both parties, Im satisfied that the position taken by Calpe is fair and reasonable.
Calpes ultimate rationale for declining the claim was that Mr N was likely under the influence 
of alcohol at the time of the collision and only provided a sample a few hours afterwards. 
They argued that, had he provided a sample shortly after the collision, itd likely have 
produced a higher reading. I agree that, in the absence of a medical condition or other 
physical reason, the relative alcohol reading will generally decrease as time passes and 
alcohol is broken down by the body.
Its not in dispute that Mr N had been drinking alcohol prior to the accident at around 3am. I 
say this because he told the police at the time of the accident (police report) and he also told 
our Service. What is in dispute is whether he was unfit to drive as a result  given the 
relevant test wasnt successfully completed until 5.45am.
Ive then considered the circumstances that led to Mr N being unable to provide a sample (listed earlier in the decision) at the roadside and why he was arrested - as the delayed 
result forms the basis of Calpes position in declining this claim. The police report listed 
impaired by alcohol as a possible contributary factor. Although a range of factors can lead 
to loss of concentration, its generally accepted that consuming alcohol can impact 
concentration and slows reaction times.
It's important to point out that although Mr N has (broadly) told our Service that he was 
unable to provide a sample either because he was 1- shaken up, 2- wasnt doing it properly 
or 3- the device was faulty, the police report is clear that Mr N Refused to provide the 
sample. Ive also noted the charge was given as Fail [sic] to co-operate with a preliminary 
test
Under the relevant law (The Road Traffic Act 1988), it is stated:
(6) A person commits an offence if without reasonable excuse he fails to co-operate 
with a preliminary test in pursuance of a requirement imposed under this section.
The following government website expands on what is expected to happen when asked for a 
breath test https://www.gov.uk/stopped-by-police-while-driving-your-rights/breath-tests: 
If you refuse to take a breath test, or fail to supply a sample of breath and do not 
have a reasonable excuse, you can be arrested. A reasonable excuse could be a 
genuine physical or mental condition stopping you from giving a sample.
Id have reasonably assumed if the breathalyser was faulty this wouldve been raised with 
the police at that time or before now. I find it unlikely that Mr N wouldve been charged with 
failing to co-operate with the breath test (considering the police report references his refusal) 
if his version of events was accurate.
Mr N has recently referenced a mental health condition that may have contributed to him 
failing to provide a sample at that time. As explained, the claim wasnt declined because of 
Mr N failing to provide a roadside sample  it was declined because Calpe concluded that 
had the sample been given at that time it wouldve likely shown him to be over the drink 
driving limit at the time of the collision.
Have Calpe fairly and reasonably considered the claim inline with the policy terms?
Ill now return to the policy terms, referenced earlier in my decision. In response to our 
Investigators opinion, Calpe said:
a conviction for drink driving is not requirement [sic] for the Underwriter to be 
satisfied that a person was under the influence and merely the conviction for drink 
driving is conclusive, no arguments. We have pointed out the circumstances of this 
case which satisfies the Underwriters belief the person was under the influence at the 
time of the collision.
My reading of the relevant terms here is that the test for Calpe is them being satisfied that  
Mr N was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the accident. I agree that a conviction 
could be interpreted as conclusive evidence, but that Mr N wasnt convicted for either drink 
driving or failing to initially provide a sample doesnt mean that Calpe cant rely on this 
exclusion in the specific circumstances of this complaint - or that theyve unfairly applied the 
policy terms when considering this claim.
Responses to my provisional decision Calpe responded to accept my intended findings. Mr N responded to say that he didnt 
accept the decision and told us about a previously undisclosed mental health condition he 
lives with. He also provided a letter from a medical professional to support that he lives with 
the condition. Mr N says his condition would have likely affected him at the roadside and 
contributed to him being unable to provide a sample at that point. 
Mr N says his reason for not disclosing it to either Calpe or Our Service until now was 
because of the stigma attached around it and how people treat and perceive you. But Im 
satisfied that Mr N has had ample opportunity to disclose this information - either in 
confidence to the police at the time of his arrest or to Calpe when making his claim. This 
information doesnt change the outcome Ive reached. I say this because Calpes decision to 
decline the claim was not based on the reason for the failure to provide the roadside sample 
- but what the reading likely wouldve shown had it taken place at that point instead of a few 
hours later. 
Summary
When considering this complaint, Ive reached my findings based on what is more likely than 
not to have happened  the balance of probabilities. This is different to the beyond 
reasonable doubt test that a Court may apply.
In the specific circumstances of this complaint, I find that Calpe have fairly and reasonably 
considered the evidence here before reaching their position and I dont seek to interfere with 
it. At the core of this dispute, I find that Mr Ns failure to provide a sample at the road side 
meant that a higher reading (than what was recorded almost three hours later) wasnt 
recorded and the position taken by Calpe is reasonable.
Whilst it was positive of Calpe to settle the finance agreement pending the outcome of their 
claim investigation, as I find that they fairly considered the claim in line with the policy terms, 
Mr N now needs to speak to Calpe about agreeing a way forward with regards to the finance 
agreement that was settled.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman