DRN-2166093
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about a buy-to-let mortgage they held with Bank of Scotland 
plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were in arrears on the mortgage. Bank of Scotland appointed Law of Property 
Act Receivers to manage the mortgaged property. It was decided the property wasnt 
sustainable as a rental property, so it was sold in possession in 2015.
In early 2015, before the property was sold, Mr and Mrs M complained to Bank of Scotland. 
The bank issued a final response letter on 13 February 2015 and that said there were three 
complaint points:
Mr and Mrs M said they hadnt received any correspondence about the property 
being taken into possession. They wanted all correspondence that had been sent 
forwarded to them.
They wanted all action suspended in relation to selling the property.
They were under the impression that the arrears had been cleared and hadnt been 
given the opportunity to defend the repossession.
Bank of Scotland rejected the complaint and explained that Mr and Mrs M had six months 
from the date of the letter to refer the complaint to us. If they didnt do so, and there were no 
exceptional circumstances, Bank of Scotland said that it wouldnt agree to us looking at it.
Mr and Mrs M queried the response and asked some linked questions, such as how they 
could get the property back and why the property wasnt viable as a rental property. On 
12 March 2015 Bank of Scotland explained Mr and Mrs M would need to repay the mortgage 
in full, and said it wasnt viable as the monthly outgoings for it were higher than the rental 
income. It said it had given its final response in February 2015 and reminded Mr and Mrs M 
theyd need to refer their complaint to this service within six months of that date of that letter. 
No referral was made.
In 2019 Bank of Scotland wrote to Mr and Mrs M as part of a wider remediation exercise it 
was carrying out. In that, it explained it had undercharged Mr and Mrs M for a period, which 
meant the balance of their mortgage was higher at redemption than it would have been 
(albeit Mr and Mrs M had benefited by not having to make the higher payments).
This triggered a fresh complaint from Mr and Mrs M in which they said if their account had 
been calculated correctly the property wouldnt have been repossessed in 2015. They also 
raised again the 2015 complaint about not receiving correspondence before the property 
was taken into possession.
Bank of Scotland responded to the complaint on 2 September 2019. It explained that the 
property would still have been repossessed as if the correct payments had been asked for 
then the arrears balance would have been higher, as Mr and Mrs M hadnt even paid the 
incorrect lower amounts. It also said it wouldnt be revisiting the 2015 issues.
I issued a decision in June 2020 explaining which parts of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint wed be 
considering, which are;
the monthly payments were calculated incorrectly (that is, the 2019 remediation 
exercise), and 
whether the property was sold for less than it was worth.
Our investigator looked at those two issues and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M 
didnt agree and so its been passed back to me to reach a decision about the merits of the 
above two complaint points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and 
businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under 
eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be investigated.
As I explained in my previous decision, we cant consider the issues that Mr and Mrs M 
complained about in 2015 as they didnt refer those to us in time, and we also cant consider 
any issues that werent part of this 2019 complaint that was made to Bank of Scotland. So I 
wont be answering the parts of Mr and Mrs Ms submissions that relate to those. All Im 
considering here are the two bullet points noted above.
Bank of Scotland admitted Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage payments had been mis-calculated and 
it paid them a sum in recognition of that as part of its remediation exercise. Mr and Mrs M 
say that if the payments hadnt been mis-calculated then their arrears balance would have 
been lower and thus their property wouldnt have been repossessed. But theyve misdirected 
themselves there. The error Bank of Scotland made was that it asked for lower payments 
than it should have done so the arrears balance was lower than it should have been, not 
higher. So if Bank of Scotland hadnt made the mistake then the property would have been 
repossessed at the same time, or potentially even sooner, as the arrears balance would 
have been higher.
Turning to the sale of the property in possession, Bank of Scotland obtained valuations from 
an estate agent and a surveyor. The valuations both concluded the market value of the 
property was £550,000, and thats what it sold for. Bank of Scotland relied on the opinions of 
properly qualified professionals about the value of the property and so I don't think it did 
anything wrong here.Mr and Mrs M have said:
These organisations simply put the sale of the property out to a third party for a quick sale. 
They basically pre determine what price they want to sell for then get the well connected 
estate agent and surveyor to basically rubber stamp it. Then they have a connected buyer 
who is part of the process to acquire the property at a knock down price.
Those are serious allegations that Mr and Mrs M have made about the conduct of Bank of 
Scotland and the other parties involved. Allegations that simply arent supported by any 
evidence, either already on file or supplied by Mr and Mrs M when making the allegations. 
A lender in possession should get the best price it can. But it shouldn't hold out too long for 
an unrealistically high price while interest on the debt mounts up. That isn't always an easy 
balance to strike, but I don't think Bank of Scotland got it wrong in this case. Having 
considered everything, I dont agree that Bank of Scotland sold the property for less than it 
was worth.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman