DRN-2803812
The complaint
Mr D complains that the new strong authentication process Sainsburys Bank Plc introduced 
affected him unfairly because he doesnt have a mobile phone. 
  
What happened
Mr D lives in a rural location and has explained there is no mobile phone coverage. In 2019 
Sainsburys Bank introduced a new authentication process that means it sends a One Time 
Passcode (OTP) to a customers mobile phone in order to access online banking. 
Mr D complained that the new process didnt work for him because he doesnt have a mobile 
phone. Sainsburys Bank said that Mr D had the option of using telephone banking to access 
his account if he didnt have a mobile phone. Sainsburys Bank apologised for the delay in 
responding to Mr Ds complaint and paid him £30. 
In September 2020 Mr D closed his account and moved his funds to a different business. Mr 
D has explained that the lack of online access meant his Sainsburys Bank account was no 
longer suitable for him. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld 
the complaint and asked Sainsburys Bank to pay Mr D £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused following the introduction of the new process. The investigator noted that the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has told businesses that the introduction of stronger 
authentication processes should work for all customers, requiring alternatives where a 
mobile phone isnt an option. The investigator thought Mr D had been caused unnecessary 
trouble and upset as he closed his account and moved it to another provider.
Sainsburys Bank asked to appeal and said Mr D had a savings account which meant he 
could only use online banking to see his balance and make a withdrawal which were 
services offered via telephone banking. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the introduction of new regulations meant Sainsburys Bank brought in the OTP 
for customers wishing to access online banking. As the investigator has said, the FCA 
issued guidance that said it should offer a range of options for customers and consider 
whether someone had access to a mobile phone. Sainsburys Banks response to the 
investigator explained that it had introduced a process where an OTP can be sent to a 
landline, but that doesnt appear to have come into place when it responded to this complaint 
and wasnt an option Mr D was given. 
Sainsburys Bank said that if Mr D wasnt able to supply a mobile phone number, he could 
access his account via telephone banking. Whilst I agree that was an alternative, I think its 
fair to say it wasnt a service Mr D wanted to use to access his account in the long term. Mr 
D has told us the new process caused him to close his account and move his funds 
elsewhere. 
So whilst I understand that Sainsburys Bank was acting in line with the rules when it 
introduced stronger authentication processes, Im satisfied the options available to Mr D did 
impact the way he could access his account. I think its clear Mr D decided to close his 
account and move it to another business as a result. Like the investigator, I think Mr Ds 
particular circumstances means he was unfairly impacted by the requirement to register a 
mobile phone to access online banking and I agree that moving his account did cause him 
some trouble and upset. As a result, Im going to endorse the additional £100 the 
investigator has asked Sainsburys Bank to pay Mr D to reflect that. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay Mr D an 
additional £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman