DRN-2069250
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc has not provided a refund of a transaction made 
on his debit card, following a dispute with a retailer.
What happened
Mr H has a current account with Clydesdale that comes with a debit card. 
On 16 September 2019 Mr H made a payment of £564.20 using his debit card.
On 5 February 2020 Mr H asked Clydesdale to raise a dispute in relation to this transaction. 
He said that the payment related to the purchase of some goods, and that those goods had 
not been received.
Clydesdale said it was unable to assist Mr H. The only way it could have disputed the 
payment was by raising a chargeback through the card scheme. But Mr H had raised the 
dispute more than 120 days after the transaction had taken place. So, under rules of the 
card scheme that issued the debit card, it was too late for Clydesdale to request a refund. It 
did however acknowledge that the customer service provided when Mr H first requested 
assistance couldve been better so offered him £50 to address the upset caused by this.
Unhappy with this response Mr H asked our service to look into his complaint. He said hed 
contacted the card scheme and it had said the 120-day time limit was for guidance only so 
he felt Clydesdale could and should have done more.
Our investigator looked into this but thought that, due to the chargeback being requested 
outside of the time limit set by the card scheme, Clydesdale hadnt done anything wrong by 
not processing it and that it wasnt required to refund the transactions.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The source of the dispute here is an issue between Mr H and the merchant he made the 
payment of £564.20 to. Mr H says the merchant has not provided what he paid for so he 
would like Clydesdale to refund this amount. Clydesdale hasnt made a mistake by paying 
this amount to the merchant as instructed nor is it responsible for the goods not being 
provided. So, I dont think it is under any obligation to refund the transaction and bear the 
loss itself  as I dont think this would be fair.
As the issuer of Mr Hs debit card, it could potentially have assisted him by raising a 
chargeback through the card scheme the debit card belongs to. Chargeback is the process 
by which card payment disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants  
effectively Clydesdale could request that the transaction be refunded from the merchant on 
Mr Hs behalf.
The rules around chargebacks are set by the card scheme. And contrary to what Mr H has 
said there are in fact strict rules on when the card issuer, here Clydesdale, are allowed to 
initiate a chargeback. 
The scheme rules relevant to Mr Hs debit card say that a chargeback for goods or services 
not being provided has to be initiated within 120 days from when the payment was made. 
The rules also talk about being able to process a chargeback as long as it is requested 
within 120 days from the last date the cardholder expected to receive the merchandise or 
services  but only where an anticipated delivery date is given. 
Here Mr H made the payment on 16 September 2019. And despite requests from our service 
he hasnt provided a contract relating to the purchase showing what was to be provided or 
when. So, at the time of his request Clydesdale didnt have any information available to 
suggest that the expected delivery date of the goods was different to the date of payment. 
Mr H didnt request help from Clydesdale until 5 February 2020  more than 120 days after 
the payment was made and outside the time limits set by the card scheme.
Whilst I appreciate Mr H feels strongly about this, I cannot consider the actions of the 
merchant in my decision, only what Clydesdale has done. And as Clydesdale was informed 
of the dispute too late to initiate a chargeback and wasnt, and still hasnt been, provided with 
any further details relating to the transaction, I dont think it has made an error by saying it 
was unable to help. 
Turning to the customer service provided by Clydesdale, I think it couldve done more to 
assist Mr H when he first got in touch. But as this wouldnt have made a difference to the 
outcome of the chargeback claim, as Mr H was already too late in contacting Clydesdale, in 
the circumstances I think the £50 already offered by Clydesdale in respect of this is fair. So, I 
wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman