DRN-2573177
The complaint
Mr A complains about the valuation Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) placed on 
his car after a claim that was made on his motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
The named driver on Mr As policy was involved in an accident in September 2020. 
Following the incident, Admiral decided that it wouldnt be economical to repair Mr As car 
and so it deemed it to be a total loss. 
Admiral used two valuation guides to decide on the market value of Mr As car. These guides 
took into account the make and model of Mr As car, the mileage of the car at the time of 
loss and whether Mr As car had any modifications which might affect the valuation. Admiral 
used the higher valuation of these guides to decide how much it was going to settle the claim 
for and it agreed to pay Mr A a total of £7,373 less £350 excess.
Mr A wasnt happy with the figure Admiral had offered him for his car. He said he wouldnt be 
able to get a similar car with similar mileage for the same price Admiral had settled the claim 
for. Mr A has shown this service adverts for similar cars hes found, and hes said that his car 
ought to have been valued at £8,680.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A. He checked the same guides that Admiral had 
used and agreed that Admiral had offered Mr A the higher valuation from the guides. But he 
also checked another guide, which valued Mr As car at £8,087. The investigator said that it 
was fair of Admiral to increase the pre accident market value of the car to £7,491, which was 
an average of the three trade guides used.
Admiral didnt respond to our investigator, so it isnt clear if they have agreed to our 
investigators view on this case. Mr A also responded with some more adverts which he says 
shows that his car is worth more than the increased valuation our investigator placed on the 
car.
Because Mr A didnt agree and Admiral didnt respond, the case has been passed to me to 
make a decision on the matter.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint.
Its probably worth starting off by saying that it isnt my role to value Mr As car. What I need 
to do is consider whether Admiral settled the claim in a fair and reasonable way, and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr As policy says, if we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of 
the car or items claimed for. And market value is defined as the cost of replacing your car, 
with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices at 
the time of the loss. When Mr As car was deemed a total loss and uneconomical to repair, 
Admiral settled the claim by paying Mr A what it thought was the fair market value for his car 
which was £7,373.
In assessing what we consider to be market value, we obtain valuations from motor trade 
guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research of 
likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations as well as the cars 
make, model and other specifications. So, we generally find them to be more reliable than 
other resources such as adverts. We also take all other available evidence into account, for 
example, engineers reports.
I fully understand Mr As frustration with the situation hes in as hes found several examples 
of cars with the same make, model and specifications as his car that are advertised for sale 
at a higher price. But these prices are an offer to sell. The offers reflect that a consumer will 
want to negotiate the price at the time of purchase. This is not necessarily the price that will 
be obtained. So, these advertised sale prices can often be misleading when assessing the 
market value of a car.
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Mr As car at the time of the incident and 
they produced the following valuations: £7,010 (guide one), £7,375 (guide two) and £8,087 
(guide three).
Often where one guide is significantly out of line with (or different to) the others the accepted 
practice is to disregard it. But I dont deem that any of the valuations from the guides to be 
so different from the others that they should be disregarded.
Admiral used guide two for the final valuation of Mr As car. But it says it doesnt take into 
account the valuation from guide three when valuing any vehicle. 
Looking at the three guide prices together would be our normal approach, and one that we 
normally think is fair to all parties. I think I need to take a pragmatic view of all the valuations 
and not discount any of them. The criteria that drive the price are so varied, and some very 
specific criteria such as age, mileage, or additional extras play a big part in determining the 
price. Because of this it makes sense to rely on the guides and use the data provided within 
them to get to a fair valuation. So, with that in mind I think the correct approach would be to 
include the guide three valuation and take all three guides into account. The average of the 
three guides is £7,491. And I think, given what I've seen in this file, this would be a fairer pre-
accident valuation for this vehicle.
Putting things right
Admiral should now do the following to put things right for Mr A:
- pay Mr A a total of £7,491 to settle the claim  it can deduct excess from this amount 
and any payments it has already made to him to settle the claim.
- pay Mr A 8% simple annual interest on the difference between that amount and the 
valuation they offered, calculated from the date of their initial offer until the date this 
complaint is settled. **If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, 
they should tell Mr A how much they have taken off, and give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr As complaint. I now order Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman