DRN-2952456
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the handling of a claim made under her home insurance policy by 
Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc (Ecclesiastical). Shes also unhappy that theyve only 
partly accepted her claim for damage to her home.
What happened
In February 2020 Ms Bs home suffered an ingress of water following bad weather and she 
reported this to her broker, who then reported the damage on her behalf to Ecclesiastical, 
Ms Bs insurer.
Following communication between Ms B, her broker on her behalf, and Ecclesiastical, 
quotes were provided for internal and external repairs. A survey of the external damage was 
also later completed. Ultimately the internal damage was accepted as insured, and 
Ecclesiastical agreed to cover this. But Ecclesiastical declined to cover the external damage. 
They said it was caused by general thermal movement and expansion and contraction wear 
and tear over time, which isnt covered under Ms Bs policy.
Ms B was unhappy with the decision and handling of her claim by both Ecclesiastical and 
her broker, so she brought both complaints to this service.
Our investigator looked into both cases. In this complaint against Ecclesiastical, Ms Bs 
insurer, she didnt uphold it. She said that Ms Bs own surveyor said the damage to the 
render was caused by thermal movement and expansion and contraction wear and tear over 
time. And she said that isnt covered under Ms Bs policy. She said that as the external 
damage wasnt accepted, no other parts of the policy would cover the external repairs. 
She also said that Ecclesiastical were slow to offer a loss adjuster, but given the earlier 
quotes didnt address the cause of render damage, and Ms B wouldve needed to obtain her 
own quotes for repair anyway, this didnt change things overall.
As Ms B didnt agree with our investigators view of things about Ecclesiastical, she asked for 
a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B is unhappy with the handling of her claim by both Ecclesiastical and her broker. Here 
Im only considering the complaint about Ms Bs insurer, Ecclesiastical. The complaint about 
Ms Bs broker has been considered separately.
But its important to note, whilst Im not commenting specifically on Ms Bs complaint about 
her broker here, they also liaised with the insurer on Ms Bs behalf. And all parties were at 
times copied into communication between each other.
There has been numerous correspondence over the length of the claim, and various 
communication throughout between the different parties, Ms B, her broker and 
Ecclesiastical. I dont mean it as a discourtesy to either party, but I dont intend on revisiting 
or commenting on every event or communication that occurred throughout here. Instead Ill 
focus on what I believe is important in reaching my decision on what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this complaint. But Id like to assure both parties that Ive considered 
all the information theyve provided when reaching my decision.
The external damage and render 
Ms B has an all risks policy. This covers damage more broadly. But it also has a number of 
exclusions and specific events which arent covered. 
Ecclesiastical accepted the internal damage under the policy was caused by an ingress of 
water and accidentally, and following correspondence and quotes being provided, they 
accepted the quotes and costs of repairing this. 
However, Ecclesiastical declined the external damage and render repairs. Whilst there was 
damage to the render, Ecclesiastical says there is an exclusion under the policy which 
means its not covered. 
Ms B provided quotes for repairing the render, but these werent sufficient for Ecclesiastical 
to conclude it was covered under Ms Bs policy.
Ultimately an inspection was carried out in December 2020 by Ms Bs chosen surveyor, and 
the cost of it covered by Ecclesiastical. They looked at the render and said there was minor 
hairline cracking. They said render is prone to fracturing over the years due to shrinkage, 
frost action and ageing. 
Whilst the report noted hairline cracking to the render, and said the weather had driven rain 
water into the cracks, which had then caused water ingress and internal damage (which 
Ecclesiastical accepted under the policy), it didnt explain what had caused those external 
cracks specifically. Instead it gave more general comments about render more generally 
being prone to fracturing over the years.
Ecclesiastical asked the surveyor for clarification of the damage to Ms Bs render 
specifically. They said the hairline cracking was caused by general thermal movement of 
different materials, expansion and contraction. Therefore, they didnt conclude the weather 
at the time had caused the cracks, rather it had caused the water ingress through the 
existing cracks which then caused the internal damage. And they said the cracks had been 
caused by thermal movement, expansion and contraction and wear and tear over time. 
So Ecclesiastical declined the claim for render damage, repair and redecoration. Whilst the 
policy covers damage more generally, it excludes:
Damage caused by wear and tear, atmospheric or climatic conditions (other than storm and 
flood) frost, rot, fungus, inherent vice, latent defect, insects, vermin or any gradual causeAnd this general exclusion relates to the whole policy and all sections, and excludes any 
damage related to, or caused by this. Ecclesiastical also explained why they couldnt 
consider any of the external repairs under the policy extension relating to loss prevention, as 
the external damage had been declined due to the exclusion, and the internal damage 
hadnt been accepted as storm damage, rather accidental water ingress damage.
As the external damage and cracking to the render was concluded to be general thermal 
movement, and expansion and contraction wear and tear over time, I dont think 
Ecclesiastical has acted unfairly by declining this as its excluded under Ms Bs policy.
Service received and claim handling 
As Ive mentioned above, Ms B raised a separate complaint about her broker, and how they 
handled the claim and liaised with Ecclesiastical on her behalf, and the service they provided 
her. Im not specifically commenting on that here. Im only considering Ecclesiastical, Ms Bs 
insurer, and the service they provided in isolation.
I can see that Ms Bs broker communicated with Ecclesiastical to report the loss and 
damage on her behalf. Ecclesiastical considered the information theyd provided during the 
call. And the broker made Ecclesiastical aware of the potential costs involved. At the time 
Ms B was in the process of asking a contractor to inspect the damage, and theyd await the 
quotes and photos. An email was also sent to Ms B to this effect. So, a loss adjuster wasnt 
appointed based on the information provided. And this wasnt requested by Ms Bs broker 
either. 
Following this, Ms B sent photos of some of the internal damage. She also said she hadnt 
yet been able to obtain a quote for repairs but would revert in due course. A quote for render 
repairs was later sent to Ecclesiastical. But as this didnt outline the cause of damaged 
render, rather the cost of fixing it, Ecclesiastical tried to contact the builder to clarify. The 
builder later emailed after being chased by Ecclesiastical, and said the original render had 
been rendered over and was defective. Ecclesiastical said that based on this, it wouldnt be 
covered.
Ms B didnt agree with this and advised she was in the process of obtaining further opinions 
on the cause. Ecclesiastical confirmed the current position to Ms Bs broker and also said 
that the internal damage would be covered regardless of the externals.
Shortly after, Ecclesiastical suggested appointing a loss adjuster to determine the cause of 
water ingress. But Ms B made Ecclesiastical aware that she had arranged for waterproof 
paint to be applied to the render, and wanted to see if this would stop the water ingress over 
the coming months before proceeding with that suggestion.
After this, quotes for the internal works were sent to Ecclesiastical by Ms B. Due to the 
extent of work required in the quotes, and to establish the external cause, Ecclesiastical said 
they wanted to appoint a loss adjuster, alongside a surveyor.
By this point Ms B was frustrated that only late into the claim was Ecclesiastical asking to 
appoint a loss adjuster. Ecclesiastical wanted to do this to establish the external cause, and 
also the full scope of internal works. Ms B also sent a second quote for the internal repairs.
 Both Ms B and her broker communicated why they didnt think that appointing an adjuster 
this far into the claim was reasonable. And Ms Bs broker said she would prefer to appoint 
her own surveyor and asked that Ecclesiastical accept the internal quote. In response, 
Ecclesiastical explained to Ms B and her broker why they were wishing to appoint both a 
surveyor and loss adjuster and how this could help move things forward. And they asked 
Ms Bs broker to confirm if this was agreeable so they could arrange appointments. The 
broker responded shortly after to say this was unacceptable at this late stage and requested 
confirmation the internal estimates would be approved.
Ecclesiastical confirmed they were still offering to appoint a loss adjuster, but they were 
happy to validate the internal quotes without, and asked for more information on the room 
size from Ms Bs broker.
In September Ecclesiastical confirmed to Ms Bs broker the internal quotes would be 
accepted, but noted they hadnt yet been provided with the paint costs and asked for this. 
In October Ecclesiastical addressed the complaint made by Ms B. And in November Ms Bs 
broker submitted an alternative report and quote for the external render to Ecclesiastical and 
asked them to remotely validate the damage like theyd done with the internal damage. This 
had an alternative and conflicting view on the cause to the first. So following review, 
Ecclesiastical suggested to Ms Bs broker appointing a surveyor to establish the external 
cause of damage. This was put to Ms B by her broker, and whether Ms B wanted to choose 
a surveyor or for Ecclesiastical to appoint one. 
Ultimately Ms B appointed a surveyor who reported on the cause of the cracks, and 
Ecclesiastical covered the cost of the surveyor report. Ive commented on their findings in 
the section above, and why I dont think it was unreasonable for Ecclesiastical to decline the 
external damage or repairs based on that report.
I do acknowledge Ms Bs frustration with how long things took overall. And I also 
acknowledge that Ecclesiastical didnt appoint a loss adjuster at the outset. But this was 
discussed when Ms Bs broker first contacted Ecclesiastical to report the claim on her behalf. 
And Im not considering the brokers actions here or any discussions Ms B had with them or 
requests she made to them. Ecclesiastical was then waiting on quotes from Ms B in the 
earlier stages of the claim. 
I can see the potential of a loss adjuster was discussed with Ms B in July and August but can 
appreciate Ms B was frustrated with things by then and that this wasnt suggested earlier. It 
did take some time to get to the point of a surveyor inspecting and giving an opinion on the 
cause of the cracks too, after Ms B appointed them. But ultimately the end position, after 
Ms Bs surveyor inspected (and Ecclesiastical covered the cost of it), was that the external 
damage wasnt covered by the policy. This wouldve been the same position even if 
Ecclesiastical had appointed a loss adjuster sooner into the claim. And Ms B wouldve 
always needed to obtain quotes for repair if the external damage was declined earlier too.
Ms B also had her broker directly corresponding with Ecclesiastical on her behalf, and 
alongside Ms B communicating with them, up to the point she appointed a surveyor. And I 
cant comment on the actions of Ms Bs broker here or whether they shouldve handled 
things differently on Ms Bs behalf during the claim. Whilst a loss adjuster wasnt discussed until further down the line, I dont think it impacted on 
the claim outcome overall. During the lead up to the surveyor appointment, Ecclesiastical 
was liaising with both Ms B and her broker and considering the information theyd been 
provided to decide whether it was sufficient to validate things. So, whilst overall the claim 
timescale was longer than Ms B expected, I dont think there have been any unreasonable 
delays or errors that I can solely hold Ecclesiastical responsible for.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman