DRN-1655486
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, failed to follow his 
instructions to stop sending him emails.
What happened
Mr S has two accounts with Barclaycard. In May 2019 he asked Barclaycard to stop sending 
him emails and text messages, because he was concerned that any such message 
purporting to be from Barclaycard might actually be a phishing email or text message sent by 
a fraudster. He regularly receives large numbers of emails from fraudsters pretending to be 
Barclaycard.
Barclaycard did not act on Mr Ss instructions. Its not in dispute that it continued to send him 
emails. In September Mr S brought this complaint to our Service, and in December one of 
our investigators upheld it. She recommended that Barclaycard pay Mr S £100 for his 
trouble, and that it stop sending him emails and text messages. In January the scope of the 
latter recommendation was clarified to mean that Barclaycard would remove Mr Ss email 
address and mobile phone number entirely from both Barclaycards and Barclays systems.
Barclaycard agreed to both recommendations, but Mr S did not accept that £100 was 
enough compensation. The investigator had arrived at that figure after taking into account 
that 11 emails had been sent to Mr S by Barclaycard since May 2019, and she later revised 
that figure up to 18, but she still thought that £100 was enough. But Mr S said that he had 
received over 1,600 emails purporting to come from Barclaycard. He had randomly selected 
a sample of 50 of these emails and checked them, and found that 18 of them, or 36%, were 
genuine and the rest were fraudulent. Extrapolating that percentage over the whole number 
of emails would mean that Barclaycard had actually sent him nearly 600 emails. He asked 
for an ombudsman to review the amount of compensation he should receive in the light of 
that figure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at all of the 18 emails Mr S sent us, which are the ones he says are the 
genuine emails he found in the random sample of 50. Most of these emails contain the 
following text in the small print at the bottom:
An easy way to help you spot fraud.
Look for the last four digits at the top of the email. If theyre not there, its not from 
us.
This means the last four digits of the account number the email is about. Three of the 18 
emails dont contain four digits, so they must actually be fraudulent emails after all.
Of the remaining 15 emails, ten contain the four digits for one of Mr Ss accounts, and five 
contain the digits for his other account.
In December 2019, Barclaycard sent us its system notes for both accounts. These show that 
emails for marketing purposes were suppressed on both accounts in 2015. That still made it 
possible for emails to be sent to Mr S about things such as payment reminders, changes to 
Barclaycards terms and conditions, and so on.
Barclaycard says that all the emails it sent to Mr S would remain recorded in the system 
notes for at least a year. So any emails sent to Mr S in 2019 would be recorded in the 
system notes it had sent us in December of that year.
Mr S says that the 1,626 emails he has received were all sent to him between April 2019 and 
January 2020. The 50 he selected at random for checking were sent between April and 
November 2019. Of the 18 Mr S said were authentic, one was sent in April 2019, and the 
rest were sent between June and November 2019. The three fraudulent ones without 
account numbers on them were sent in April and August, so the 15 which look genuine were 
sent between 20 June and 1 November 2019. So I looked for them in the system notes.
All five of the emails which were sent about one account corresponded to entries in the 
system notes for that account. So I agree that they are genuine emails.
Of the ten emails about the other account, four clearly correspond to entries in the system 
notes for that account, and a fifth almost matches another entry and I will presume that it is 
genuine also. The other five emails do not appear in the system notes, but there was a sixth 
email in the system notes which Mr S did not include in the 18 he sent to us.
That makes a total of eleven emails which are recorded in the system notes for both 
accounts, ten of which are among the 18 emails Mr S found among the sample of 50 which 
he randomly selected for checking.
On balance, I dont think its likely that Barclaycard sent Mr S another 600 or so emails which 
for some reason have not been recorded on the system notes. I think that for three reasons. 
Firstly, all but one of the emails logged in the system notes are included in the 18 which Mr S 
sent to us, so I dont think it is reasonable to assume that the number of genuine emails in 
the sample of 50 can safely be extrapolated to the remaining 1,576 emails. It looks like most 
of the genuine emails were in the sample of 50. Secondly, Im not persuaded that 
Barclaycards systems are not recording some or most of the emails it sends. I think its 
more likely that five of the 15 emails which have partial account numbers on them are still 
fraudulent, and that Mr S has just wrongly identified them as genuine. Thirdly, I just dont 
think its plausible that Barclaycard has really sent Mr S around 600 emails in a period of 
nine months (none of which could have been marketing emails), or even 300 (based on only 
ten out of 50). I think its more likely that Barclays sent him 11 emails, and the rest were 
fraudulent.
I think that £100 is fair compensation for 11 emails.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, to pay Mr S £100.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman