DRN-3547677
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the decision by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) to
decline a claim she made on her pet insurance policy. Mrs C is also unhappy with the 
service provided whilst her complaint was ongoing.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mrs C and RSA. I wont repeat in any 
great detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving 
the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mrs C had a pet insurance policy with RSA covering her pet dog. In 2021 she tried to make a 
claim on her policy as her dog required treatment for bilateral patella luxation. RSA declined 
the claim. They said Mrs C had claimed for the same condition in another of her dogs legs in 
2017 and under the policy terms, cover for that condition ended once 12 months since the 
first date of treatment or the fee limit was reached  which ever occurred first. 
Unhappy, Mrs C complained. She felt that this restriction hadnt been made clear when she 
took the policy out. RSA considered the complaint but didnt uphold it as they felt theyd fairly 
declined the claim. Mrs C was further unhappy with perceived delays when responding to 
her complaint and being sent another customers information.
Mrs C referred her complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator 
initially recommended that the complaint be upheld and RSA reconsider the claim. But after 
the initial assessment, further evidence was presented by RSA and the investigator then 
recommended that the complaint not be upheld.
As Mrs C didnt accept the investigators recommendations, the complaint has been referred 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
I accept that the main part of this complaint concerns the decline of her claim. But Mrs C 
also expressed dissatisfaction about delays and the general service received after the final 
response letter. In the interests of fairness and completeness (and because our investigator 
has already considered these points) Ive also considered them as part of my decision.
Im sorry to hear of the health issues Mrs Cs dog has experienced.
When coming to my decision my key considerations are:
Was the information about this policy restriction made sufficiently clear to Mrs C?; 
Has RSA fairly considered this claim in line with the policy terms before making their 
decision to decline it?; and
Has RSA treated Mrs C fairly overall? 
The information about the policy restriction
Mrs C chose standard cover when taking this policy out. The relevant policy term here 
outlining the main restriction to cover is:
Vets fees for 12 months from the first date of treatment or until your vet fee limit 
shown on your policy schedule is used up, whichever happens first. Once that 
happens, you'll no longer have cover for that injury or illness
Whilst I havent seen what information Mrs C was provided with at the time of sale, Im 
satisfied that this isnt an unusual policy term with the level of cover/type of policy selected 
here and the policy terms make this key restriction sufficiently clear. 
Ive also seen a copy of a renewal letter sent to Mrs C dated 14 May 2021. This copy was 
provided by Mrs C  so Im satisfied she received it. In the renewal letter its stated:
Well give you information to help you make an informed choice but wont provide advice on 
whether our products are suitable for you
You have chosen Standard for [dogs name redacted by Ombudsman]
This meets the demands and needs of someone who is looking for help paying 
vet bills for accidents and short-term illnesses, but not for ongoing treatments 
lasting longer than 12 months.
This will cover vet fees up to £3,000 for each accident or illness for up to 12 months, 
as long as you renew with no break in cover
When you reach the vet fee limit or have had 12 months of treatment, youll no longer 
get help paying vet bills for that accident or illness
The 'Important Notes' section of this schedule has information that may affect the 
cover you have chosen
Your schedule and policy document are evidence of your insurance contract
Please check all the enclosed documentation to ensure the cover provided is exactly 
what you need
Im satisfied that the renewal letter made it clear what level of cover was provided and 
overall, I find that RSA sufficiently made Mrs C aware of this important policy restriction.
Has RSA fairly considered this claim in line with the policy terms?
Mrs C has argued that the condition claimed for in 2021 should be covered. But based on 
what Ive seen, I dont agree with Mrs C. The policy terms state that cover will be provided for each injury or illness until the earliest of 
the policy limit being reached, or 12 months from first treatment. Mrs C had a successful 
claim in 2017 for the same condition being claimed for in 2021. RSA have said that the 2021 
condition isnt new, but bilateral and cover for this condition ended 12 months from first 
treatment  so 29 July 2018.
Having considered all of the evidence, but most importantly - the dogs clinical notes, what 
Mrs C has told us and expert opinions from two vets  one whom treated the dog, and the 
other on behalf of RSA, Im satisfied that RSA can fairly rely on the 12 months of cover 
exclusion to decline this claim as the 2021 claim is for the same condition - but in a different 
leg. This doesnt mean the 12 months of cover restarts. 
Has RSA treated Mrs C fairly overall?
Mrs C is unhappy with the service provided by RSA. Specifically, how they responded to her 
complaint. Im satisfied that a final response letter was sent to Mrs C (which she didnt 
receive initially) within a reasonable time frame and within the 8 weeks allowed under the 
DISP rules.
When Mrs C notified RSA that she hadnt received the final response letter on 23 June 2021, 
there was indeed a delay until 15 July 2021 - when she contacted RSA again. At this point 
RSA resent the final response letter by recorded delivery and also by email. Ive also noted 
that Mrs C was told shed be called back by RSA and these calls didnt happen. This is 
disappointing. But Ive kept in mind how busy insurers were generally around that time as 
they continued to adjust to remote working and increased insurance claims as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic.  
Mrs C has told us that she then received another customers letter alongside hers. RSA have 
explained that another customers complaint acknowledgment may have been sent wrongly 
to Mrs C. Whilst again, this is disappointing, I havent seen evidence that Mrs C has lost out 
because of this. In any case, its not within my remit to direct businesses on how to handle 
customer data. Mrs C has the option of contacting the Information Commissioners office 
should she have concerns about how RSA handles customer data or the controls they have 
in place.
Mrs C told us in her initial complaint letter that RSA had previously offered £50 as an 
apology for the service received. Whilst Ive no reason to doubt her, equally, Ive not seen 
any supporting evidence that this was offered or discussed. Ive also asked RSA about this 
and theyve been unable to find a record of this offer. But as outlined at the beginning of my 
decision, some issues were raised after the final response was sent.
Overall, although the service from RSA may not have met Mrs Cs expectations, I dont find 
that it was poor to the extent that compensation would be fair, reasonable or appropriate. 
Whilst Ive not seen evidence that RSA offered compensation as part of this complaint, if 
theyve done so separately - thats not something Id seek to interfere with as its in Mrs Cs 
favour.
Summary
I find that RSA have fairly considered this claim in line with the policy terms. The service 
received may not have been to the standard that Mrs C or RSA wouldve liked, but I dont 
find it poor to the extent that Im going to award compensation for that reason. 
I acknowledge that my decision will likely disappoint Mrs C, but it brings to an end what our 
Service in trying to informally resolve her dispute with RSA - can do for her.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman