DRN-4134021
The complaint
Mr F and Ms M are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has part paid their travel 
insurance claim. They also complain about the way Aviva has handled their claim.
Any reference to Aviva includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr F and Ms M have a travel insurance policy alongside their bank current account. The 
policy is underwritten by Aviva. 
During their ski trip, Ms M had a knee injury on 4 April 2022. She contacted Aviva to notify it 
of the injury and advise that an MRI scan was being recommended by the treating doctor. 
Ms M contacted Aviva by phone and email, the following morning, to confirm cover for the 
MRI.  She received a response from Aviva soon after. It said a medical report would be 
needed and it was possible that if Ms M went ahead with the MRI, it may not be covered. 
The MRI was scheduled for later that same afternoon. Ms M went ahead with having the 
MRI done.
On 6 April 2022, Ms M sent the medical report and the invoice for the MRI to Aviva by email. 
Ms M received a fit to fly certificate on 8 April 2022 and they returned to the UK on 
9 April 2022. They had issues with the lack of assistance offered when they arrived at the 
airport and with the seating arrangements which caused them distress and inconvenience. 
Mr F and Ms M made a complaint to Aviva. It said it wouldnt pay for the MRI as their policy 
requires confirmation that all treatment is appropriate and necessary, and it wasnt able to 
identify this without reviewing the medical report first. Aviva also agreed that there were 
failings in its claim handling and the service it provided in organising assistance on their 
return to the UK. So, it offered Mr F and Ms M £250 compensation in recognition of this. 
Mr F and Ms M brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and 
upheld the complaint. She said it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to settle the remaining 
part of the claim for the MRI. She didnt think it was reasonable for Ms M to wait until she 
returned to the UK to have her treatment. She had sustained an injury and had already had 
an x-ray. The MRI was recommended as she was experiencing excessive bleeding and she 
wasnt fit to fly. 
Our investigator also recommended an increase in the compensation offered by Aviva. She 
recommended Aviva pay a further £75 to recognise the trouble and upset caused. Aviva 
didnt organise assistance for Ms M on their return flight home and they had to arrange their 
own special assistance at the airport, and she had a seat on the plane which was cramped 
causing her worry about swelling around the knee area. 
Aviva responded to the investigators findings. In summary, it said:
The need for an MRI scan was reviewed at the time and it concluded that it wasnt an 
emergency procedure. Aviva had concluded that the cost of the MRI wouldnt be 
covered but Ms M made a conscious decision to have this done. 
It agreed to pay the increased compensation recommended by the investigator. 
Our investigator sent further findings to both parties. She said following further information 
from Aviva, she agreed that the claim had been assessed in line with Mr F and Ms Ms policy 
terms and conditions and didnt think he claim for the cost of the MRI had been declined 
unfairly or unreasonably. She thought the medical evidence Aviva provided was persuasive 
and fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr F and Ms M disagreed and provided their comments. They also asked for the complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. They say:
The fracture/dislocation was only established because of the MRI scan as the initial 
x-ray did not show it.
Theyre unhappy that an NHS consultant should say that an MRI would not be 
needed for the injury sustained as they werent there. Ms M followed advice from the 
treating consultant and did as she was asked. The cost of this should therefore be 
covered by Aviva under their travel policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
The key issue in dispute here is whether the cost of the MRI scan should be covered under 
Mr F and Ms Ms travel insurance policy. 
There is no dispute regarding the compensation recommended by the investigator of £325 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr F and Ms M. Neither party has disputed 
this. Therefore, Aviva should now arrange to make either the full payment of £325 or the 
additional £75 to Mr F and Ms M if its already paid £250 previously offered. I think this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
With regards to the MRI scan, Ive carefully considered all the information provided. My 
understanding is that Ms M notified Aviva of her knee injury. The following day she informed 
it that an MRI scan was going to be carried out. Despite Aviva informing her that the medical 
report would need to be reviewed first, and the cost of the MRI scan wouldnt be covered, 
Ms M went ahead with the scan.
I appreciate the reasons why Ms M went ahead with the MRI and, in situations like this, its 
understandable for the patient to go ahead with whats being recommended by the treating 
doctor. Ms M did what she was asked by the treating consultant. However, while she did go 
ahead with the MRI and made the payment for this, it doesnt necessarily mean that there 
would be automatic cover for this under her policy. 
There are terms and conditions with policy requirements which need to be considered. In 
this case, when Ms M first contacted Aviva to inform it that an MRI was going to be carried out, the procedure was for the medical report to be first reviewed. Aviva didnt get the 
opportunity to review this initially, but Ms M decided to go ahead anyway. And Aviva did 
inform Ms M that the cost of the MRI wouldnt be covered without reviewing the medical 
report. So, when Ms M made the claim and was told there would be no cover for the MRI, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to decline this. 
Avivas medical team did review the request to authorise the proposed MRI scan and it 
wasnt deemed to be an emergency procedure. Since then, the information has been 
re-reviewed by an NHS consultant, on behalf of Aviva, who confirmed that an MRI would not 
be needed immediately or as an emergency. An x-ray would show the fracture/dislocation. 
Ive considered Mr F and Ms Ms comments that the fracture/dislocation only showed up on 
the MRI scan. However, this is something the treating doctor decided that he wanted to also 
do an MRI scan. But the information received from an NHS consultant shows that an MRI 
wouldnt necessarily have been needed. I cant see evidence which shows why the treating 
doctor needed to have an MRI scan done in addition to the x-ray. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded that Aviva is responsible for covering the claim. 
Mr F and Ms Ms travel policy is designed to cover emergency medical expenses and 
associated costs. I can see that Ms M was advised that there was no cover available under 
their policy for the MRI scan, but she went ahead anyway. The policy isnt designed to cover 
every eventuality and while I appreciate Ms M decided to go ahead with the MRI, this doesnt 
mean the responsibility for the cost of this should fall on Aviva under the circumstances here. 
Overall, based on all the information available, Im satisfied that Aviva has declined 
Mr F and Ms Ms claim for the cost of the MRI, in line with the policy terms and conditions 
and, fairly and reasonably. It follows that Aviva doesnt need to do anything further on this 
point. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partially uphold Mr F and Ms Ms complaint about 
Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman