DRN-3181830
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
1998. Mr H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include the PPI 
policy benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all 
of this information here. The information we have about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of 
sale was summarised by our adjudicator. Weve not received more since and, again, Ive not 
set it all out again here.
Lloyds has provided information showing the policy was cancelled in May 2001 with no 
further premiums being charged to Mr H after that.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Lloyds offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Mr H paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Hs representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
Mr H also requested a decision. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr H has said the PPI was just included with his card. But his card application form listed 
PPI under the heading Optional Features - with a box for him to tick if he wanted it. On 
Mr Hs form, which he signed to take the card, the box for PPI was ticked  and I think he 
wouldve known the box for it shouldnt be ticked if he didnt want the cover. There were 
a number of other optional features listed of the form that Mr H didnt tick for  and 
nothing on the form said he had to tick for or take the PPI. Overall, I think it likely Lloyds 
made it clear Mr H didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it  although it 
wouldnt be surprising if he didnt recall this now, given how long ago all this was.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H, so it had to check the PPI was right for him. And 
the evidence about Mr Hs circumstances at the time, shows the policy wasnt unsuitable 
for him. For example, Mr H was eligible for the cover and the information I have about his 
job and length of service makes me think he had a need for cover  even allowing for the 
savings hes told us about. I say this because the PPI benefit was payable for 12 months 
and I dont think Mr Hs work benefits and savings wouldve replaced his income for as 
long as that if he lost his job or couldnt work due to sickness or accident. Also hes told 
us he was financially stretched, so I dont think he couldve coped easily with the loss of 
income its likely hed suffer in that situation. So I think he had a need for cover. Also I 
dont think the cover was unaffordable for him and nothing about his job or employment 
wouldve made it difficult for him to claim. 
There were no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. But 
the policy did exclude claims for disability in the first year if due to a health issue Mr H 
knew about in the year before the policy start. But taking into account what he wouldve 
still been able to claim for, I havent enough to make me think any health issue Mr H had 
like that was so significant that Lloyds ought to have to thought this exclusion made the 
cover no longer worthwhile. I think its likely the cover wouldve still been useful to him.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it, and I dont think it likely he wouldve 
taken it without at least a broad understanding of what it covered - so it looks to me like 
he wanted this type of cover. It wasnt unsuitable for him, as I concluded above, and it 
seems like it wouldve been useful for him if something went wrong in the circumstances 
it covered. Overall I dont think the cover was too different to what its likely Mr H thought 
he was buying from the information its likely he was given  and, with this and all Ive 
said above in mind, I dont think he wouldve declined it had Lloyds done more.
Overall, I consider Mr H wouldve still taken the PPI. I think the policy couldve provided a 
useful benefit at a difficult time if he couldnt work due to disability or unemployment, given 
his circumstances at the time of the sale. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely 
he thought he was getting. And, in those circumstances, I think he wouldve have taken the 
policy in any event.
Mr Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mr Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Hs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused, 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr H about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Hs representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr H should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr H about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Mr H wouldnt have taken out 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipthe policy had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all 
the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr H 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Hs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloyds failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr H paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr H 
with the policy Ive concluded above he wouldve still taken if Lloyds had done everything it 
should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloyds payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. Lloyds says it paid this 
to Mr H in 2018. As Lloyds has already paid Mr H compensation on this basis, I dont 
consider it should do anything further. 
Im grateful to Mr H for his courtesy and patience throughout our consideration of this matter.
my final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Hs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr H an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As 
Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman