DRN-4298512
The complaint
Ms C complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has handled her claim for 
damage to her car when she called to claim on her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms Cs car was damaged by a third partys car whilst parked. She called Admiral to claim on 
her policy for the damage caused. 
Rather than claiming on her motor insurance policy, Ms C agreed to an accident 
management company (AMC), who Ill refer to as E to repair her car on a credit hire and 
repair basis. E would carry out the repairs to her car and then claim the money back from the 
third partys insurer. E could also arrange a hire car for Ms C, which was also charged to the 
third party involved in the accident if needed.  
As Ms C wasnt happy with how E was handling her claim she complained to Admiral. She 
said shed not been called back as promised and said she kept being passed from one 
person to another. Admiral reviewed the complaint and upheld it. It said that there had been 
occasions when Admiral had agreed to call back but hadnt and also agreed that Ms C had 
spent too long on hold trying to discuss her claim. However, Admiral also explained that Ms 
C had been referred to E to handle her claim for the damage to her car and so she wasnt 
claiming on her policy with Admiral. It said this was because Ms C hadnt wanted to pay her 
excess which was £500. Admiral paid Ms C £100 compensation for not returning her calls as 
agreed. 
Ms C didnt think this was fair and brought her complaint here. She said Admiral still hadnt 
repaired her car and she wasnt happy with how the claim was being handled.  
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld in part. He found 
that Ms C had used an AMC rather than claiming on her policy with Admiral. However, when 
Admiral referred Ms C to E he didnt think Admiral gave Ms C clear information about her 
options which had caused her unnecessary distress and inconvenience. He therefore 
recommended Admiral pay an additional £150 compensation for the poor referral. 
Ms C didnt agree. She said Admiral hadnt handled her claim properly and her car still 
hadnt been repaired. 
As Ms C didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address the merits of this complaint, I think its first important to set out the different
parties involved and Admirals responsibilities, to make clear what I can and cannot look at in
this decision.
When Ms C called Admiral to report the damage to her car, she was referred to E to handle 
the claim rather than claiming on her policy. E is an AMC and when it handled Ms Cs claim 
it was done outside of her insurance policy with Admiral. Also, the actions of E arent within 
the jurisdiction of this service in relation to the repairs to Ms Cs car. This means in this 
decision I can only consider the actions of Admiral when it referred Ms C to E and when Ms 
C contacted Admiral to discuss her claim. 
As Ms Cs insurer, Admiral was obliged to provide Ms C with information that was
clear, fair and not misleading, in line with its obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA
Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1 The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R
(Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when
Ms C contacted Admiral to tell it about her non-fault claim for damage to her car, Admiral 
ought to have provided her with clear information about her options, so she could decide 
how best to proceed with getting her car repaired.
Ive listened to the recording of the call where Admiral referred Ms C to E for credit
hire and repair (the referral call). While Admiral did explain to Ms C that the actions of E 
would be outside the remit of this service and explained that she wouldnt have to pay her 
excess. Im not persuaded Admiral provided Ms C with enough information for her to make 
an informed choice. I say this as Admiral didnt explain that by using E, that Ms C would 
need to enter into a credit agreement with E for the repair of her car and the hire car. Or that 
there is a possibility she could be held liable for these costs of the third party doesnt pay 
them. 
However, from listening to the calls with Admiral, Ms C was keen not to pay her excess. 
Therefore, even if Admiral had properly explained the referral to her I think its likely she 
would still have chosen to use E, as she didnt want to pay anything as the claim wasnt her 
fault. I appreciate Ms C has accepted now she would have to pay her excess but from 
listening to the call at the time I think its most likely she would still have chosen to use E. 
However, the poor referral meant Ms C hasnt been clear on who she is speaking with or 
what her options are. This has caused Ms C unnecessary distress and inconvenience as she 
thought Admiral was dealing with her claim. 
Im aware Admiral has already paid compensation for the poor handling of Ms Cs other calls 
with it. In the circumstances Im satisfied the £100 it has already paid is fair and reasonable. 
However, for the poor referral Im satisfied Admiral caused additional unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience and should pay Ms C a further £150 compensation.  
Ive also considered Ms Cs point about her car not being repaired. While I understand its 
frustrating, as the repair to her car has been referred to E, she would need to raise the 
issues with E. Im also aware that Ms C has said E has passed her back to Admiral to deal 
with her claim so, if E is unable to deal with Ms Cs claim on a credit hire and repair basis, 
she would need to make the decision on whether to pay her excess and claim on her policy 
with Admiral or contact the third-party insurer to claim directly from them. Its for Ms C to 
make the choice on which course she takes to get her car repaired and not one I can advise 
on.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Ms C an additional £150 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, this is on top of the compensation already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman