DRN-3788370
The complaint
Mrs Y has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands)
has declined her claim for treatment for her pet dog on the ground that the treatment was for
a condition that pre-existed the commencement of her policy.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision in this case. In response to this Red Sands 
provided further information which Ive taken into account and which Ill refer to below.
What happened
The background to Mrs Ys complaint has been given by our investigator in her view of this
complaint so I wont repeat it here in detail. In summary, Mrs Ys dog, who Ill refer to as M,
was insured under a Prime Plus time limited policy with Red Sands from 2016. On 9
December 2016 she was treated for an ear infection which had been diagnosed as Otitis.
Under this policy, any treatment for this condition expired on 8 December 2017.
On 6 June 2017, Mrs Y changed Ms insurance to a Super Lifetime policy. In 2020 M was
treated for a skin condition. When Mrs Y claimed for the cost of this treatment, Red Sands
declined her claim on the ground that it was allergy related and was connected to the
condition with which she presented in December 2016, and this pre-existed the start of Ms
Super Lifetime policy.
Mrs Y didnt agree with Red Sands decision that it wouldnt cover Ms ongoing allergy
treatment as it was a pre-existing condition, so she brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigators view was that based on Ms clinical history and the opinion of Red Sands
consultant vet, there were signs of allergies going back to 2016 on the basis that Otitis is
related to allergies. She was satisfied that Red Sands has acted fairly by declining Mrs Ys
claim based on Ms condition existing before the start of Ms current policy.
Mrs Y didnt agree with our investigators view and requested that her complaint be
referred to an ombudsman. Its been referred to me for a final decision from this
service. I issued a provisional decision upholding Mrs Ys claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having taken into account Red Sands further submissions in response 
to my provisional decision, Im continuing to uphold Mrs Ys complaint and Ill explain why.
I consider the issue in this case is whether there is a connection between the ear infection,
diagnosed as Otitis, for which M was treated in December 2016, and the skin irritation for
which she was treated in 2020. If they are related, then the latter condition would not be
covered under the term of Ms policy which excludes cover for:
any claims or costs for or relating to a pre-existing conditions(s) or for an accident,
injury or illness that first showed clinical signs at any time before the commencement
date of the policy or within 14 days of the commencement date.
A number of specific exclusions were retrospectively added by Red Sands to Mrs Ys
Lifetime policy effective from 6 June 2017 on the basis of which her claim was denied.
Ive looked at Ms clinical notes. Red Sands argues that the condition with which M 
presented to her vet on 9 December 2016 is connected to Ms subsequent treatment for 
allergies in 2021. The notes made by Ms vet until 24 July 2018 (when a new veterinary 
practice took over Ms care), make no mention of M having any allergy in December 2016 or 
at any other time until the new vet took over.
From 25 July 2018, the notes made by Ms new vet also make no mention of M having any
allergy until 26 November 2020 when the notes say she had no other skin problems, but
allergy bloods were advised.
In my provisional decision I said I thought it was relevant that between 9 December 2016 
and 26 November 2020, although M was treated for ear issues on a number of occasions, 
and from July 2019 there was regular emptying of Ms anal glands, there was no mention of 
M suffering from any allergies. On 8 May 2019 (so well after the Lifetime policy started) the 
vets notes specifically state no signs of allergies.
Mrs Y has made reference to research she has undertaken into the Otitis with which M was
diagnosed in December 2016. According to this information, allergies can be one cause of
Otitis, but there are a number of others including the shape of a dogs ear and over
enthusiastic cleaning. Mrs Y has said that she was told that she was using too much liquid
cleaner when cleaning Ms ears, which may have caused problems. She has also referenced
information about a number of characteristics of Ms breed that make her predisposed to ear
problems such as grass seeds, which can lead to Otitis, and yeast infections.
Ive taken into account the view expressed by Red Sands consultant vet. She states that:
Allergies were suggested as a cause of her (Ms) symptoms in 11/2020, when both
ears and anal glands continued to be a recurring issue. No new symptoms were noted
to prompt this diagnosis, it was simply the recurring and chronic nature of both issues
that led to further workup.
Whilst Im not a vet, I was persuaded that were a number of other possible causes for Ms
Otitis in 2016 and the intermittent ear issues that M had thereafter. I also said I found it 
unlikely that an allergy said by Red Sands to be present in 2016 would not have manifested 
itself again until November 2020.
My preliminary conclusion was that I didnt consider that Red Sands had provided sufficiently
persuasive evidence that the symptoms of allergies that M displayed in December 2020 and
for which she received treatment were related to the Otitis with which she was diagnosed in
2016. As Red Sands relies upon this to deny Mrs Ys claim, the burden is on it to provide
sufficient evidence to support its case.
My preliminary view was that as M was diagnosed with Otitis before Mrs Y took out the 
Lifetime policy, it would be reasonable for Red Sands to exclude cover for any treatment for 
Ms ears with effect from 6 June 2017. I considered that any further exclusions would be 
unreasonable as there was insufficient evidence that they are related to a pre-existing 
condition.In response to my provisional decision Red Sands provided further information in support of 
its view that Ms allergies that were diagnosed in 2020 had their origins in the ear issue that 
M had in 2016. I have therefore re-visited Ms veterinary records and have taken into 
account the further information about allergies provided by Red Sands. Having done so, I 
remain unpersuaded that it is more likely than not that Ms ear condition in 2016 was allergy 
related. It was diagnosed as Otitis, and although I understand that an allergy can be a cause 
of Otitis, there are a number of other possible causes.
Prior to 9 December 2016, M was not recorded as showing any outwards signs of an allergy 
such as itching or paw licking. She was provided with some treatment. The next reference to 
any ear issues was a reference to itching on 15 April 2019. 
I understand from the further information provided by Red Sands  that allergies can be 
difficult to diagnose, but I find it surprising that if M was suffering from any food or 
environmental allergy in December 2016 which manifested itself in an ear problem, that it 
didnt potentially manifest itself again until 15 April 2019 at the earliest. Three weeks later the 
vet recorded ears look great . no signs of allergies. Red Sands hasnt provided any 
explanation for the lack of symptoms between 2016 and 2019.
It was only in 2020 that manifestations became increasingly regular, such as the frequency 
of anal gland emptying, and in November 2020 an allergy was suspected and subsequently 
identified. There is no record of any such suspicion prior to 2020. 
So I dont consider that Red Sands has proved, as it needs to do to rely upon an exclusion in 
Mrs Ys policy, that what was identified as an allergy in 2020 was a symptom of a pre-
existing condition that was present in 2016, given the significant period over which no further 
symptoms were recorded. 
Im therefore maintaining my original decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mrs Ys claim.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to remove from Mrs Ys policy the 
retrospective exclusions it applied other than that relating to any problem with Ms ears, and 
thereafter to settle Mrs Ys claim subject to any other terms and conditions of her policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman