DRN-2869071
The complaint
H complains that, when it wrote out several cheques from its business account, Barclays 
Bank UK PLC (Barclays) declined to pay some of them saying the signatures didnt match 
the mandate but allowed other cheques to be paid.
  
What happened
H is a business operating as a partnership. Mr E brings this complaint as a partner of H. H 
holds a business account with Barclays. The account mandate requires two partners to sign 
cheques. In May 2019, the partners wrote out several cheques, all of which were signed by 
the same two partners. Some of the cheques were paid successfully. But some were 
returned unpaid. 
Mr E and his wife were the intended beneficiaries of two of the returned cheques. They paid 
these cheques into their account at another bank on 24 May 2019. Mr E says their account 
balance increased to reflect the cheques being credited. But, on around 28 May 2019, he 
noticed that the funds had disappeared from his account. Mr E says this caused a great deal 
of distress and he thought he had been the victim of fraud. He contacted Barclays and was 
told that the cheques had been returned because there was a problem with the signatures.
On 30 May 2019 Mr E attended a Barclays branch. The branch staff confirmed the reason 
the cheques had been returned was that his signatures on them didnt match his signature 
on the account mandate. As the cheques were genuine, Mr E was very concerned about 
them not being paid and the delay it caused to the funds reaching his personal account. He 
was due to complete a property purchase on 31 May 2019 and wanted to use these 
payments from H to fund the purchase. Barclays agreed to make a CHAPS payment to Mr 
and Mrs Es account, free of charge, for the combined amount of the two cheques. This was 
authorised by one of Mr Es partners on 31 May 2019 and the payment was sent that day.
Mr E was very unhappy about the situation and complained to Barclays. He said the 
cheques were all written at the same time and signed by the same people. He said the 
signatures would have been the same on all of them. So he asked why Barclays thought 
some of the signatures matched the mandate but others didnt. He said surely all of the 
cheques should have been returned if there was a problem with the signatures. 
Mr E said that, because the cheques werent paid, he had to make other arrangements to 
fund his property purchase. He said he had to sell investments and that hes out of pocket as 
a result. The situation also caused him a great deal of worry and inconvenience. He asked 
Barclays for compensation of around £1,000 to address this.
Barclays explained that the funds Mr E had seen credit his personal account werent cleared 
funds, so the money hadnt actually reached his account. They said they tried calling him on 
28 May 2019 but the contact details they held were out of date, so they couldnt reach him. 
Barclays didnt think theyd done anything wrong by stopping the cheques. But they said they 
had made a mistake by allowing some of the cheques to clear. They said that Mr Es 
signature didnt match the mandate on any of the cheques. So they didnt think any of them 
should have been paid. But, because the cheques were genuine, they said there was no 
negative impact from them having been paid. They offered £50 as compensation for the 
confusion caused.
Mr E wasnt happy with Barclays response and brought the complaint to this service. He is 
very unhappy with the service he received from Barclays, particularly as he has been a 
customer for a very long time. He said that £50 isnt adequate compensation for the losses 
he suffered, the time he spent dealing with this or the worry caused. Our investigator didnt 
think Barclays needed to do anything more. But Mr E didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr E, but Im not going to ask Barclays to do any more than theyve 
already offered here. Ill explain why below. 
This complaint is brought by H as the account holder. H is Barclays customer here. As a 
signatory to the account and when instructing Barclays to make payments from the account 
(including by writing cheques), Mr E acts in his capacity as a partner of H. But as a 
beneficiary of a cheque written by H (including where he himself is one of the signatories), 
Mr E acts in a personal capacity. 
In this complaint, I can award compensation to Mr E for financial losses, distress or 
inconvenience he suffers in his capacity as a partner of H. But I cant make any awards to Mr 
E here for losses suffered in his personal capacity, as the intended beneficiary of the 
cheques. Mr E would need to meet the requirement of being an eligible complainant in that 
context for this service to consider such losses. Im not making a decision here about 
whether he meets that requirement.
Turning now to the issue of the unpaid cheques, the first question for me to consider is 
whether Barclays were wrong not to have paid them. The terms and conditions of Hs 
account say that Barclays dont have to follow an instruction from H if it isnt complete or 
clear, or they dont think it came from H. They also dont have to follow an instruction if they 
reasonably think that a payment out of an account is connected to fraud or any other criminal 
activity. So Im satisfied that, if Barclays thought the signatures on any of the cheques 
werent genuine, they didnt have to pay them. Indeed, if Barclays werent satisfied with the 
signatures, I would expect them to return the cheques unpaid so as to protect Hs funds.
Its for Barclays to decide on the exact nature of their security measures and the procedures 
they put in place to safeguard customers accounts. From the evidence Ive seen here, I 
dont think Barclays concerns over the signatures were unreasonable. So I dont think they 
did anything wrong by not paying the cheques.
This leads on to Mr Es point that, if Barclays doubted the signatures were genuine, they 
shouldnt have paid any of the cheques. Barclays accept this. Fortunately, as the cheques 
were all genuine, no financial loss arose from them being paid. So I dont need to make an 
award for financial losses suffered by H.
But I need to consider next whether Barclays dealt with the situation fairly. Mr E is unhappy 
that they didnt contact him to tell him there was a problem with the cheques. I understand 
that he thought the funds had gone into his personal account and only realised there was a 
problem when he noticed they seemed to have disappeared from there. I can appreciate how stressful that must have been. But Barclays say they did try to call Mr E. From the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied that they did so. 
Unfortunately, the contact details they held for Mr E werent up to date, so they werent able 
to reach him. They called a business number and were told that Mr E had retired and that 
the other partner they asked for wasnt known to the person they spoke to. They also tried 
calling a personal number they held, but that wasnt successful either and turned out to be 
an old business number. This was unfortunate, but I dont think it was Barclays fault.
The onus is on H to make sure Barclays has the most up-to-date contact details. Mr E 
accepts that his numbers hadnt been updated. But he asks why Barclays didnt try calling 
one of his partners. Barclays say that, in light of the amount of money involved, they decided 
not to contact the other partners and defaulted the cheques as unpaid. I think that was 
reasonable. As Barclays were suspicious of the cheques, I wouldnt expect them to have 
taken further steps to try and prove their legitimacy, particularly as they had already tried 
calling the partner whose signature was in doubt and been told he had retired.
Mr E recalls having a call from someone while he was at the airport a week later returning 
from his holiday, asking about the signature on some cheques. He has questioned why, if 
Barclays were able to contact him then, they couldnt do so before. Barclays say that when 
the cheques were returned on 28 May 2019, they didnt have a personal contact number for 
Mr E. But their records were updated with current contact details following Mr Es contact 
with the branch on 30 May 2019. They say thats why they were able to contact Mr E by 
phone the following week about some other cheques. I think thats a reasonable explanation.
Mr E says Barclays have a recent example of his signature on another account he holds with 
them. He says they could have checked the signature on the cheques against this. Barclays 
say this isnt something they would do as each mandate is specific to that account only. I 
wouldnt expect Barclays to have cross-checked the signatures in this way. I can understand 
why that would have been helpful from Mr Es point of view. But I dont think it would 
necessarily have been in Hs best interests. If a bank has concerns over a cheque, I think its 
reasonable for it to stop payment rather than look for reasons to release the funds, 
particularly where it hasnt been able to speak to the customer.
Mr E has suggested that Barclays should have required the partners to update the account 
signatures, given the amount of time which has passed since the account was opened. 
Barclays say they dont proactively contact customers and ask them to do this. They say its 
up to the customer to do this if they want to. Its possible the situation here would have been 
avoided if the mandates had been updated. But I dont think its something Barclays were 
obliged to do and I dont think it was unreasonable that they hadnt done so here.
But, on balance, I think Barclays should pay some compensation here. As I have said, any 
compensation due to Mr E personally as the intended beneficiary of the cheques would fall 
to be considered separately. What Im deciding here is the amount of compensation due to 
Mr E as a partner of H. Although there was no financial loss to H, the situation did cause 
concern and inconvenience to the partners. They had to spend time on the phone to the 
bank and visit the branch to find out what the problem was. They also had to update the 
mandate and authorise the CHAPS payment. It was worrying for the partners that Hs bank 
had taken an inconsistent approach to paying cheques and had allowed some to be paid 
which it later said ought to have been held back.
Mr E was the partner most affected by the situation as it was his signature which Barclays 
queried. I understand the situation was particularly stressful for him because of the timing. 
He was due to complete a property purchase on 31 May 2019 and fly abroad on the same 
day. Although I dont think Barclays could have been expected to know about those things (and I understand they both took place on schedule), they added to the pressure on Mr E to 
resolve the situation quickly. He wasnt the only beneficiary of the unpaid cheques  some 
third parties were also affected - so I think its fair to say that added to Mr Es stress as a 
partner of H and hes described how embarrassing it was to have cheques dishonoured.
But I have to be impartial, so Ive also taken into account the following: (a) there was a bank 
holiday on the Monday after the Friday on which the cheques were paid in, meaning that 
Barclays couldnt reasonably have alerted H to the problem any earlier than 28 May 2019; 
(b) following discussions with Mr E on 30 May 2019, Barclays transferred the funds by 
CHAPS on 31 May 2019  the cheques may not have cleared any earlier than this even if 
theyd been paid; and (c) there were other payment methods by which H could have made 
all the payments out  they didnt have to be made by cheque.
  
Putting things right
Barclays have already offered compensation of £50. I think thats fair in the circumstances 
here. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr E and Im sorry for that. But our awards arent 
intended to punish a business for mistakes, rather to try and compensate the customer for 
the impact of those mistakes. Here, I think £50 reflects the impact on Mr E as a partner of H.
  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, Barclays Bank 
UK PLC should pay compensation of £50 to Mr E as a partner of H.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman