DRN-3200910
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the way Metro Bank PLC responded to his chargeback dispute. 
What happened
In January 2018, Mr D asked Metro Bank to raise a chargeback for two transactions totalling 
£500. He said the transactions related to a training course hed already cancelled, so the 
merchant should reasonably provide him with a refund.
Metro Bank complied with Mr Ds request and applied a temporary credit to his account for  
the disputed amounts.
In March 2018, the merchant defended the chargeback and provided evidence to support 
their position. 
Metro Bank then wrote to Mr D and told him the dispute would be closed and the amounts 
re-debited from his account. This was unless he could provide some additional supporting 
information within the next seven days. 
As Mr D didnt reply to Metro Banks letter by the deadline, the dispute was closed and the 
amounts re-debited from Mr Ds account.
In May 2021, Mr D visited his local branch and complained about the above issue. He said 
he was unhappy about how the dispute was investigated and the money should reasonably 
be credited back to his account. Hes also said he would have cleared his overdraft, if Metro 
Bank had made him aware of the outcome of the dispute.
Metro Bank then sent Mr D a final response which set out the above version of events. They 
also explained theyd followed the correct chargeback process and they couldnt do anything 
more to help now due to the time that had passed.
 
An investigator at our service then considered the complaint. She thought Metro Bank had 
handled the chargeback fairly and didnt delay informing Mr D of the outcome. She also 
suggested to Mr D that he contact Metro Bank or a debt charity, if he needed any assistance 
managing his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill now explain why.
I appreciate Mr D feels very strongly about the merchants actions and doesnt think theyve 
treated him fairly. However, I can only consider if Metro Bank followed the chargeback 
dispute process fairly and Im satisfied they did. 
I think it would be helpful if I explain how chargebacks work. The chargeback process is a 
voluntary scheme that most banks sign up to. It's administered by the scheme provider (not 
Metro Bank ) and provides a process for banks to recover funds for their account holders in 
certain situations. However, there is no guarantee a chargeback will be successful. 
Broadly speaking banks should decide whether to make a chargeback or not. But wed 
generally consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where there was a 
reasonable prospect of success. If they do, they must start the dispute quickly. The 
merchant then receives the chargeback and may agree to refund the payment or may 
contest the chargeback. If it contests, the bank (Metro Bank here) should consider this and 
then if they still feel the chargeback is warranted, they can take the chargeback further and 
ultimately to the scheme provider who will then make an independent determination on the 
matter. 
A consumer isnt entitled to a chargeback and a bank has no obligation to progress a 
chargeback through the later stages  if they dont think it will be successful. A chargeback 
cant be left open indefinitely and strict timescales apply. 
Metro Bank followed the above process, by raising the chargeback on Mr Ds behalf and 
temporarily crediting the funds back to his account. The merchant then defended the 
chargeback and provided additional information to support their position. Specifically, they 
said they'd already resolved Mr Ds payment dispute directly and he hadnt cancelled the 
course as hed suggested. They also said the cooling off period had expired and Mr D had 
used the training materials. 
Metro Bank then did what Id reasonably expect them to do under the circumstances as they 
made Mr D aware of the merchants response. They also said the dispute would be closed if 
he didnt provide some additional information. I appreciate Mr D has said he didnt receive 
this letter but based on Metro Banks contact notes, Im satisfied it was sent.
 
Im also satisfied Metro Bank acted fairly by closing the dispute and re-debiting the funds, 
once the deadline specified in their letter expired. As they hadnt received a response from 
Mr D and the merchant had said the dispute was resolved. I appreciate Mr D has since said 
he can provide evidence to support his point of view. However, as the chargeback dispute is 
closed its now too late. Im also satisfied Metro Bank gave Mr D a fair opportunity to provide 
this information while the dispute was open. Metro Bank is also unable to raise a new 
chargeback about the same dispute.
Mr D has said hes avoided clearing his overdraft because of this issue. However, as Metro 
Bank re-debited the funds in 2018, I would reasonably have expected him to have contacted 
Metro Bank much sooner - if he still believed his dispute was open. Im also satisfied Metro 
Bank didnt do anything wrong by causing his account to go overdrawn, as they were 
required to re-debit the funds once the dispute was closed. 
Lastly, I note Metro Bank have written to Mr D on several occasions to offer support in 
relation to his overdraft. So, he should reasonably be aware of the status of his account and 
the help available to him. I can also confirm that this correspondence was sent to the correct 
address.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman