DRN-3345706
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited has declined a claim she made under her 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs F has explained that she went on holiday abroad in March 2020 and was due to fly back 
to the UK on 29 March 2020. But, given the global coronavirus pandemic Mrs Fs airline 
provider cancelled the scheduled return flight. The airline initially rearranged the flight for 2 
April 2020  but then also cancelled this  again as a result of the pandemic.
Because Mrs Fs scheduled flight was cancelled, she needed to stay abroad, and pay for 
additional accommodation whilst she remained there. Mrs F has also explained that she 
contacted the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) about her being left 
abroad. It advised her that at the time there were no repatriation flights it was running from 
where she was. So, it advised her to book a repatriation flight with a particular airline 
provider, who was flying back to the UK on 3 April 2020. 
Mrs F did book onto this flight and paid the fee for the journey. And because the airport the 
flight was leaving from was a long distance from where Mrs F was staying, she has 
explained she arranged a taxi to drive her the seven-hour journey to the airport.
Once Mrs F had got home, she made a claim under her insurance policy. This was for the 
cost of the repatriation flight, her taxi journey and the additional accommodation costs shed 
incurred.
Ageas considered Mrs Fs claim and declined it. It said that Mrs Fs policy didnt provide her 
with cover for the situation she found herself in. It said Mrs Fs policy was an insured peril 
policy, and for the loss to be covered it had to be due to one of the events listed in her policy 
booklet. It said that there wasnt an event that applied to Mrs Fs situation. It noted the only 
possible relevant event would be travel delay. But, for this to be covered the travel delay had 
to be because of strike, industrial action, adverse weather or mechanical breakdown or 
technical fault of the airplane. And the reason Mrs Fs return home was delayed didnt fall 
into any of these.
Mrs F didnt feel this was fair. So, she raised a complaint with Ageas. It responded and 
maintained its position that the loss wasnt covered. So, Mrs F referred her case to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
an insured event covered under Mrs Fs policy hadnt occurred, and so she felt Ageas had 
acted reasonably in declining to cover the claim.
Mrs F disagreed. She said that there was nothing within the policy that said it wouldnt cover 
additional payments occurred in her situation. And, she noted the policy was taken out for 
eventualities such as this.
Because Mrs F disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I dont require Ageas to do 
anything more. Ive explained my reasoning for this below. 
The relevant industry guidelines say an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly  
and must not unreasonably decline it. Mrs F doesnt feel Ageas acted in line with this. So, 
Ive considered her concerns. And, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Ageas did anything 
wrong in declining Mrs Fs claim.
The starting point for deciding whether a claim was declined fairly and reasonably is the 
terms and conditions of the policy taken out. This is the contract both parties agreed to when 
the cover was purchased.
Looking at the policy Mrs F purchased, I can see there is cover for various incidents  such 
as the need to cancel a holiday or cut it short. And, there is cover under the policy for travel 
delay. But, as is common with insurance policies of this nature, the losses incurred and 
claimed for need to be as a result of one of the reasons detailed in the policy booklet. The 
list of reasons is an exhaustive one. So, if the losses werent due to one of the reasons listed 
in the policy, the policy doesnt cover it, and the claim wont be settled.
As above, Mrs Fs policy does include cover for things like cancellation, and curtailment of a 
holiday, amongst other things. None of the reasons listed as covered within the policy 
booklet apply to Mrs Fs case - where she needed to stay abroad due to the global 
coronavirus pandemic.
The only possible reason that could apply in Mrs Fs case, which is listed in the policy 
booklet, is travel delay. So, Ive also considered that section, to see whether it applies here. 
And, Im satisfied it doesnt. I say this because the travel delay section only provides cover 
where the delay is caused by one of three things. These being:
Strike or industrial action, so long as there was no expectation the trip would be 
delayed when the policy was taken out
Adverse weather conditions
Mechanical breakdown or technical fault of the aircraft, coach, train or sea vessel
The reason Mrs Fs return home was delayed was because of cancelled flights due to the 
coronavirus pandemic. It wasnt as a result of one of the above three things. Because of this, 
this section of Mrs Fs policy doesnt apply either. And so, Im satisfied Ageas hasnt 
unreasonably declined Mrs F claim  the policy doesnt cover it.
I appreciate Mrs F has said that she took out insurance to protect her from losses abroad. 
And, I understand she feels the policy should cover the loss, because she cant see that 
losses due to the pandemic are excluded from cover. But, as above, for a claim to be 
covered, it needs to be caused by something listed in the booklet as covered. It isnt the 
case that all losses are covered unless otherwise specified. As Mrs Fs loss wasnt caused 
by something listed in the policy, Ageas acted fairly by declining the claim in line with the 
policy terms. And so, these points dont make a difference to the outcome of the complaint. My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And so, I dont 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman