DRN-3180664
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was mis-sold a training course which he financed with a loan from 
TTR PT Limited.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr W signed up for a training course and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with TTR. The loan was for £2495 over a term of 36 months. The course was 
split into two parts, with each part to be completed in 12 months.
Mr W was unable to complete the first part of the course. He contacted the course provider 
and asked for a refund, complaining that the course had been misrepresented to him. He 
said hed been told that the course would be a hands-on course and that there would be 
weekly mentor support. Mr W said the mentor support hadnt been sufficient because hed 
only spoken to his mentor three or four times. Mr W also said that the pass mark was 
unreasonably high.
In response, TTR said that Mr W had received mentor support every month except for one 
but that in any event it didnt think that the level of mentor support was the main reason why 
Mr W signed up for the course. It acknowledged that the salesman may have provided 
misleading information about the level of mentor support but said there hadnt been a 
misrepresentation. 
Mr W was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He looked at everything and said that although 
the mentor support hadnt been weekly, it had been readily available. The investigator said 
there wasnt enough evidence to say that the course had been misrepresented.
Mr W didnt agree. He said he still felt that hed been mis-sold the course because of the lack 
of hands on training. He said the large amounts of reading had overwhelmed him and he 
didnt think the mentor had helped him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W entered into a fixed sum loan agreement to pay for the training course. In this case, 
TTR is both the lender and the training provider. Under the relevant legislation, Mr W can 
claim against TTR if the course was misrepresented or if theres been a breach of contract.
Mr W has complained about the availability of mentor support and the way in which the 
course was delivered. Ive considered all of the points which Mr W has raised, and Ive taken 
account of the information provided by TTR.
Misrepresentation
If Mr W was told something that was incorrect, and if he relied on this information when 
deciding whether to enter into the agreement with TTR, then I would find TTR responsible 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mr W enrolled on a course to learn about cyber security. Ive looked at the information about 
the course to see if the course was delivered as advertised. From what I can see, the 
courses on the online learning platform were as described in the prospectus. The prospectus 
makes it clear that there is a 12-month period to complete part 1 of the course. The terms 
and conditions set out the relevant exam fees and the pass marks required.
Mr W has made a specific complaint about mentor availability and how the course was 
taught. He says he was told by the salesman that the course would be hands on and that he 
would be contacted twice a week by a mentor.
Ive looked at the course modules. These include reading, flash cards, quizzes and practice 
tests. Ive also listened to the sales call. Based on the call, Im satisfied that the salesperson 
explained how the course works. I havent found any evidence to suggest that Mr W was told 
that there wouldnt be any reading involved. I appreciate that Mr W found that the reading 
element was more than he anticipated but based on the sales call, Im unable to say that this 
aspect was misrepresented to Mr W.
Ive looked at the information about Mr Ws contact with his mentor. I agree that this didnt 
happen weekly. However, I can see that it happened regularly. The information Ive seen 
suggest that the mentor provided appropriate support for Mr W. I appreciate that Mr W 
experienced some difficult personal circumstances towards the end of the first year of the 
course  but from what Ive seen, the mentor continued to provide support throughout this and 
tried to prepare Mr W for the exams.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Mr W didnt receive mentor support or 
that the level of support was misrepresented. Even if the sales agent led Mr W to think that 
the mentor support would be twice a week, Im not persuaded that this was the main reason 
why Mr W entered into the agreement. Further, if Mr W had wanted twice weekly support, 
theres nothing to suggest that this wouldnt have been available if hed contacted the mentor 
and asked for this. 
Ive thought about whether there has been a misrepresentation or a breach of contract here. 
And Ive had regard to the specific points raised by Mr W. But on balance, and whilst I 
understand that Mr W was disappointed with the course, Im not persuaded that there is 
enough evidence to say that there was a breach of contract or that there was a 
misrepresentation. Because of this, I wont be asking TTR to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman