DRN-2965996
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society granted a payment holiday without his 
consent on a mortgage he holds jointly with his ex-partner.
What happened
Mr H and his ex-partner have a joint mortgage with Nationwide. In April 2020, Mr H received 
a letter from Nationwide about a mortgage payment holiday. He says his ex-partner had 
applied for a three-month payment holiday, or deferral, without his knowledge or consent.
Mr H made a number of phone calls to Nationwide to cancel the payment holiday. 
Nationwide eventually did cancel it, only to reinstate it in May 2020  again, without Mr Hs 
consent. It refused to cancel the payment holiday when Mr H complained. 
Mr H says his ex-partner didnt need the payment holiday and simply took advantage of the 
availability of a break from payments, but Nationwide didnt bother looking into his ex-
partners financial situation before agreeing the payment holiday. He says Nationwides 
decision has had an adverse financial impact on him, as well as causing him significant 
distress and inconvenience. 
In response to Mr Hs complaint, Nationwide said that, while it would usually want consent 
from all joint account holders in order to agree a payment holiday, it had changed its process 
in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. It took the view that leaving the payment holiday in place 
on Mr Hs and his ex-partners mortgage was the best option in order to make sure the 
mortgage didnt go into arrears. It said Mr H could make payments to the mortgage himself if 
he wanted, and it had noted the mortgage account to say Mr H had asked that no other 
changes be made without joint consent.
Nationwide accepted it had given Mr H some conflicting information and caused confusion, 
and paid him £400 by way of compensation. 
Our investigator thought Nationwides decision to grant the payment holiday was fair and in 
line with regulatory guidance. He found Nationwide had caused some confusion, but it had 
done enough to put that right by paying Mr H £400. 
Mr H disagreed. He said the payment holiday had meant he couldnt re-mortgage, and 
Nationwide had failed to consider his interests in granting the payment holiday.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In March 2020, following the first national lockdown, the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), issued guidance saying that mortgage lenders should offer a payment 
holiday, or deferral, to borrowers if they asked for one  unless it was clearly not in the 
borrowers best interests to do so. Like all mortgage lenders, Nationwide had to act quickly in 
order to implement this new guidance.
Many thousands of people asked for payment deferrals in a short space of time. The FCA 
made provision for that and said it didnt expect lenders to investigate the circumstances 
surrounding a request for a payment deferral. In practical terms, it would have been very 
difficult for lenders to have made detailed enquiries against the background of the 
coronavirus pandemic, and doing so is likely to have caused significant delays and hardship 
to many borrowers.
I must take into account all the circumstances in considering this complaint, and I think the 
wider situation is important here. Mr Hs ex-partner had been making the monthly mortgage 
payments for a few years, and Nationwide didnt have to make further enquiries. It had been 
instructed by the regulator to act quickly to support its borrowers. If it hadnt agreed to the 
payment deferral, the mortgage may have fallen into arrears and so put both it and Mr Hs 
credit file in a worse position.
I dont consider the payment deferral was clearly not in Mr Hs best interests, given the risk 
of mortgage arrears, and in all the circumstances I find Nationwide was reasonable in 
granting it. It gave Mr H the option of making payments himself, and I think it tried to 
reassure him by noting the mortgage about requiring joint consent for changes in most 
circumstances.
It follows from that conclusion that I dont consider Nationwide responsible for the difficulties 
Mr H says he had in trying to arrange a re-mortgage. However, to be clear, I wouldnt expect 
the payments which werent made during the payment deferral to show as arrears on Mr Hs 
credit file.
I think Nationwide did cause some confusion and upset by giving Mr H conflicting information 
and cancelling the payment deferral, then reinstating it. But it has paid Mr H £400 in 
recognition of that, and I dont consider I can fairly require it to pay any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021. 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman