DRN-2227272
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited withdrew cover under a private medical 
insurance policy because it thought his condition had become chronic.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr S began cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) to treat anxiety and 
depression. AXA agreed to cover this treatment under the policy. 
In April 2019, AXA told Mr S that it thought his condition had become chronic, and was 
therefore no longer covered. It confirmed it would continue to pay for his CBT treatment until 
30 September 2019. Unhappy with this, Mr S brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had been 
reasonable for AXA to conclude that Mr Ss condition fell under the policy definition of a 
chronic condition. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains it doesnt cover chronic conditions. It defines these as:
a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation, or for you to be specially trained to cope with it 
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back
Under the section What happens if a condition I have is a chronic condition?, the policy 
says:
If your condition is chronic, there will be a limit to how long we cover your treatment. If we 
are not able to continue to cover your treatment, we will tell you beforehand so you can 
decide whether to start paying for the treatment yourself or to transfer to the NHS.
Between October 2017 and April 2019, AXA authorised around 35 CBT sessions for Mr S. 
In January 2019, Mr Ss therapist (Ms H) explained that he had made significant progress 
since starting treatment in October 2017, and was in a different state of mind that he had 
been previously. She said she supported his request for an extra 12/16 sessions, as he 
needed more time to achieve his goals. AXA authorised three sessions at this time. After 
this, a further 12 sessions were requested. AXA spoke with Mr Ss treating therapist and she 
couldnt say if the further 12 sessions would conclude the treatment. AXA therefore 
authorised the 12 sessions, but decided to withdraw cover after this. 
Mr S would have received over 40 CBT sessions over nearly two years by the time AXA 
withdrew cover. I see that the NHS confirms that CBT can be used to treat anxiety and 
depression, and that the course of treatment usually lasts between five and 20 sessions. 
Taking this into account, and that Mr Ss therapist didnt know when his treatment might 
come to an end, I think it was reasonable for AXA to conclude that his condition needed 
ongoing or long-term control, and therefore fell under the policy definition of a chronic 
condition. However, since Mr S was partway through his treatment, I think it was appropriate 
for AXA to allow him the further 12 sessions before withdrawing cover. 
Ms H has provided this service with some further information in support of Mr Ss complaint 
against AXA. She said that ordinary life events trigger psychological responses, and for 
those responses to be classified as pathological, they need to exceed in length and intensity 
what would otherwise be considered an appropriate response. And that circumstantially 
altered psychological functioning becomes a chronic disorder when its no longer 
proportionally correlated to the factors that originally caused it. Ms H explained that Mr S 
was temporarily depressed and anxious, and that she could not have guaranteed to AXA 
that he would never need more sessions. 
Ive taken into account Ms Hs comments; however, it seems that she is looking at the 
definition of chronic from a medical perspective. For AXA to withdraw cover, it needs to show 
that the condition meets its policy definition of a chronic condition. As Ive explained above, I 
think it was reasonable for AXA to reach this conclusion.
Mr S says that he had been referred to his therapist by AXA, and so there was no 
independent third party to assess that he was receiving the correct treatment over the 
appropriate time period. However, AXA was not responsible for the treatment Mr S received. 
It provides a Stronger Minds service, which means that when someone experiences mental 
health problems, they can contact AXA directly to seek authorisation for treatment, without 
needing to go via their GP first. I understand that AXA referred Mr S to a particular therapist, 
however he then asked if he could see Ms H, which AXA agreed to. As a medical specialist, 
it was up to Ms H what treatment she gave Mr S, and AXA would have had no control over 
that. 
AXA advised Mr S in April 2019 that it was withdrawing cover after the further 12 CBT 
sessions. It was agreed between Mr S and AXA that he could have until the end of 
September 2019 to have the further sessions. I think that was reasonable. 
The investigator thought that AXA hadnt initially made it clear to Mr S that it would be 
withdrawing all cover for anxiety and depression. Ive listened to the relevant call, and I 
agree. However, AXA then made Mr S aware of this a few days later, so I agree with the 
investigator that AXAs initial error didnt disadvantage Mr S. 
The policy explains that there are situations where AXA will cover treatment for chronic 
conditions. That includes when a condition flares up or has complications, and the insured 
needs short-term in-patient treatment to take the condition back to its controlled state. I see 
that AXA made Mr S aware of this. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman