DRN-3153824
The complaint
Ms Z has disputed a number of withdrawals from her Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) account and 
feels it should reimburse her for money shes said shes lost.
What happened
In September 2020 Ms Z contacted Lloyds to complain about 16 cash withdrawals that were 
made from her account between October 2012 and June 2020 that she says were either 
withdrawals she didnt make at all, or, withdrawals where she had requested £100 and £150 
had been debited from her account incorrectly. 
Ms Z had said shed carried out a review of her statements in 2020 after shed been the 
victim of fraud which is how she came across the transactions she didnt recognise so long 
after some of them took place.
Lloyds gave Ms Z the contact details for its ATM disputes team and informed her it would be 
able to look into any disputes in the 12 months preceding her complaint. It doesnt have any 
record of her contacting the team after this.
Ms Z brought the complaint to our service in November 2020 but our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint as they didnt feel there was sufficient evidence the transactions Ms Z 
had highlighted were incorrect in some way. As Ms Z didnt accept their findings the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Withdrawals disputed in 2012 and 2013
This service does not have the power to consider every complaint referred to us. The rules 
that apply to our service set out that we cant consider a complaint thats been raised more  
than six years after the event complained about, or more than three years after the 
complainant reasonably ought to have become aware of cause for complaint if the business 
objects. This rule can be found in full in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook 
under DISP 2.8.2(R).
Lloyds has objected to us considering the first two withdrawals Ms Z has raised. They were 
made in October 2012 and February 2013 and Ms Z didnt contact Lloyds to dispute them or 
complain about them until September 2020. So, Ms Z raised her complaint more than six 
years after the event complained about.
Ms Z said she didnt know to dispute the payments until she went back through her 
statements in 2020 so she wasnt aware of any cause for complaint before then. But the rule 
that applies sets out that she needed to complain within three years of when she either 
became aware, or when she reasonably ought to have become aware of cause for 
complaint.
In this case, Ms Z has raised the complaint seven and eight years after the withdrawals were 
made. So either she hadnt checked her account statements at all during this time, which is 
at odds with what shes told us, or she didnt feel these withdrawals were incorrect until more 
recently. Either way, I think its reasonable to expect someone to check their account 
statements every few months to make sure their account is in the position they expect it to 
be. So I think Ms Z ought reasonably to have become aware of the cause for complaint a 
few months after the withdrawals happened. And whilst I accept Ms Z had the choice not to 
do check her accounts, as a consequence of this choice I think shes raised the complaint 
more than three years after she reasonably ought to have become aware of cause for 
complaint.
I cannot consider the withdrawals made in 2012 and 2013 as theyve been raised too late 
and dont fall within the services jurisdiction.
Withdrawals Ms Z has said she didnt make 2016 - 2020
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs). I 
wont quote them directly here but, broadly speaking they set out when a customer is 
responsible for the transactions on their account  typically when theyve been authorised by 
the consumer in some way. And where theres a dispute about whether a customer 
authorised a transaction there needs to be evidence to support the banks case if it wishes to 
hold the customer liable.
Of the 14 withdrawals Im able to look at as part of this complaint, Ms Z has said 12 are 
withdrawals she didnt make at all. Ms Z hasnt said much about how she thinks these 
withdrawals have happened. From what I understand she believes withdrawals have 
somehow been made by someone else using their own account information and money has 
been incorrectly debited from her account. 
Ms Z has said she thinks Lloyds should have sufficiently sophisticated records to show 
exactly where this money has gone. But Lloyds does have records that show where the 
money has gone - thats what her account statements are. According to the terms and 
conditions of her account, withdrawals at an ATM can only be made using Ms Zs card and 
PIN which are both unique to her account. They act as her means to identify herself as the 
account holder, and authorise transactions from the account. So anyone withdrawing money 
from her account, would need to have access to her card and PIN.
Based on what we currently know and understand about how fraud tends to be perpetrated, 
we dont know of any way someone mightve been able to make a copy of Ms Zs card such 
that they couldve used it as thought it was a genuine card linked to her account over the 
years. Ms Z has said her card never leaves her side and shes never given her PIN to 
anyone. Shes also said no-one she lived with or in her personal life wouldve been able to 
take her card without her knowing, and in any event, she doesnt believe someone has used 
her card.
The transactions Ms Z is disputing are withdrawals made from ATMs near her home that she 
uses frequently. They are for amounts that she herself regularly withdraws. The transactions 
themselves arent consistent with the type of transactions Id generally expect to see when a 
fraudster has accessed an account. Its unusual that a fraudster would, rather than 
accessing all the money they could in a short space of time, carry out many smaller 
transactions over a longer period which would increase the risk of them being caught.Its not clear why Ms Z didnt raise any of the withdrawals shes disputed sooner. Whilst I 
accept its not a requirement to regularly check statements, some of the withdrawals 
disputed date back years. And Ms Z said she did at one point check her statement monthly. 
Shes also said she diligently keeps withdrawal receipts which seems at odds with not 
checking her account for years at a time. 
Its also not clear to me why Ms Z is so sure now, given the considerable time that has 
passed since some of these withdrawals, they are incorrect. Especially given they are in line 
with withdrawals she herself regularly makes.
Overall, on balance and based on the evidence available, I think Ms Z more likely than not 
authorised the transactions herself. So I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly in holding her 
liable for them.
Withdrawals where Ms Z has said the incorrect amount was debited from her account
Ms Z has said in both February 2019 and February 2020 she withdrew £100 from an ATM. 
Later she discovered £150 had been debited from her account for these withdrawals.
When these were raised with Lloyds in September 2020 it told her to contact its ATM 
disputes team. Ms Z doesnt appear to have done this, so Lloyds has explained it didnt take 
the matter further. Its also explained it doesnt investigate ATM disputes that have been 
raised more than 12 months after theyve happened.
As Ive mentioned, I dont think Ms Z has been able to reasonably explain why she hasnt 
noticed discrepancies on her account for months and years. She told us both that she 
diligently checked her account statements and kept receipts for all her withdrawals, and also 
that she doesnt check her accounts because she should be able to trust Lloyds.
She says she distinctly remembers that on the occasions that she withdrew £100 and £150 
was debited from her account, she wasnt given a receipt despite them happening so long 
ago. But when asked, Ms Z hasnt been able to provide any of the receipts or the records 
she says shes kept over the years.
Ms Z has over the years made many withdrawals of £50, £100, £150 and £200 from the 
same ATMs as the ones that form part of her dispute. And these withdrawals, although often 
multiple times a week, dont seem to follow a strict pattern. So Im not persuaded Ms Z has 
been able to plausibly explain how, looking back now months and years after the 
withdrawals, she is sure these are incorrect.  
I understand she feels Lloyds should have records of all these transactions, but Id again 
explain it does  her account statements. Ms Zs testimony is the only evidence these 
withdrawals are incorrect in some way.
I dont think its unreasonable Lloyds didnt investigate the February 2019 ATM dispute 
further when it was raised in September 2020. I accept that due to the passage of time it 
likely wouldve been difficult to obtain the information required from the owner of the ATM in 
order to carry out a meaningful investigation. And, Ms Z hasnt given any reason she couldnt 
have raised this sooner. Overall I think its reasonable to expect someone to check their 
accounts within a 12 month period.
Whilst I have taken Ms Zs testimony into account, Ive also considered all the other 
circumstances in this case, alongside the records we do have  namely her account 
statements. Based on this Im not persuaded the withdrawal in February 2019 was incorrect.The February 2020 withdrawal was within 12 months of her reporting the matter. I can see 
Lloyds did give Ms Z the contact details for the department that dealt with this type of 
dispute, and she doesnt appear to have ever followed this up. So it seems she decided not 
to pursue the matter at that time, and instead brought the complaint to our service. 
But Lloyds had a responsibility to ensure Ms Zs withdrawal was correctly authenticated, 
recorded and not affected by any technical breakdown or deficiency. And I think it did have 
enough information to look into things for her without this additional step. So whilst I accept 
Ms Z didnt take things further, I think Lloyds still reasonably ought to have. 
Due to the time that has passed, not all the information I wouldve liked is available from the 
third party bank that owns the ATM. But, it has been able to provide the journal roll, which 
shows a breakdown of what withdrawals were requested, and it suggests Ms Z received 
£150. It also shows withdrawals were made one minute before hers and eight minutes after 
which suggests the ATM was working around the time Ms Z made her withdrawal. Lloyds 
has said the third party bank has confirmed it has no record of any disputed withdrawals 
during the period in question. 
So, overall, based on the evidence that is available, the ATM Ms Z used seems to have 
been working correctly that day. And records show the amount debited from her account 
seems to be the amount of cash dispensed to Ms Z. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman