DRN-3459536
The complaint
Mr C complains Capquest Debt Recovery Limited cant show him how the debt they say he 
owes accrued. Hes also unhappy they said theyd arrange someone to visit his property 
during a Covid-19 lockdown.
What happened
My understanding is Mr C took out a credit card with a company Ill call S. The account fell 
into arrears, and S sold the account to another company who Ill call A in July 2011 with an 
outstanding balance of £1,078.89. A appointed Capquest to act on their behalf in recovering 
the outstanding balance in October 2018. For that reason, Ill only refer to Capquest going 
forward.
Mr C says Capquest are demanding a sum of £618.89, but he says this amount goes back 
many years and hes been paying so long he doesnt think there should be any balance left. 
He asked them to prove how the balance accrued, but says theyve provided no proof. Hes 
also unhappy that in February 2021 during a Covid-19 lockdown, Capquest said they were 
appointing an agent to visit him  something he says was against Government guidelines, 
illegal and utterly irresponsible. Mr C says their continued harassment has caused no end of 
stress, and if they cant justify what he owes then they should write off the debt and 
compensate him for the stress caused by threatening him. He was also unhappy with how a 
phone call to Capquest was handled and that they wont accept payments from him through 
his preferred method.
Capquest said as the balance was accrued before they got the account, they contacted S for 
statements. But S told them no statements were available because of the length of time 
thatd passed. Capquest said its not that theyve refused to prove to Mr C how the balance 
accrued, its that its out of their control and theyd provided the balance S gave them in good 
faith.
Capquest said in relation to the letter that said they were appointing someone to visit, its 
because theyd not heard from Mr C following his previous complaint. In that, they said 
theyd agreed to put Mr Cs account on hold until 31 December 2020, but then hadnt heard 
from him. Capquest said they had tried to contact Mr C several times, but when they didnt 
hear back, they made the business decision to ask someone to visit Mr Cs property. They 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong on this point either. 
In relation to the phone call Capquest accepted they could have handled this better, and said 
theyd send Mr C a cheque for £150 as an apology  and for the payment method they 
simply dont accept that.
Our Investigator didnt think Capquest had done anything wrong in terms of the balance 
owed but did think the letter they sent about someone visiting  and the call  warranted 
some compensation. Overall, he felt the £150 Capquest had already paid was fair.
Mr C said hed spoken to S, and all they would say is his account has been passed on. Mr C 
said hes fully agreeable to paying what he owes but wont pay anything unless he gets 
proof. As Mr C wasnt happy, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amount Capquest say is outstanding
I can understand Mr Cs frustration about this, but for reasons Ill go on to explain I think 
Capquest have acted fairly on this point.
When the account was passed over from S, there was an outstanding balance of £1,078.89. 
Capquest have provided a transaction history showing Mr C has largely been making £5 
payments since then until August 2020. Checking this, the balance between the amount that 
was passed over, and the amount now outstanding of £618.89 appears correct.
Mr Cs concern though is Capquest cant prove how the balance was made up initially. In 
this situation, what Id expect them to do is contact S, and ask for the statements to show 
what the balance is made up of. I can see Capquest have done that and S have said they 
dont have statements due to the time thats passed.
I dont think I can fairly require Capquest to do anymore  theyve asked the original owner 
of the account about Mr Cs query  and they cant provide the information. I can see Mr C 
has been told if hes unhappy with this he should contact S directly. I note hes done this, but 
this complaint is only about Capquest, so I can only consider Capquests actions.
Letter about someone coming out to visit him
Mr Cs concern about this was Capquest said theyd tried to contact him and this was during 
a Covid-19 lockdown. Capquest say they had tried to speak to Mr C.
The letter starts off by saying:
We note that despite our attempts to speak with you to discuss your account, we do not 
appear to have defined a solution for the repayment of your current balance.
In the previous complaint, Mr C explained his personal circumstances were changing  and 
because of that, Capquest had agreed to put a hold on Mr Cs account until 
31 December 2020. Between then, and the date of this letter on 24 February 2021 Ive seen 
no evidence they tried to contact Mr C. So, its unclear to me what Capquest are referring to 
when they said they had tried to speak to him.
The letter goes on to say
We will shortly be instructingto visit your property.
are a business who specialise in the visitation of customers properties. Their instructions 
will be to reconnect you with our office so that we may discuss your current financial 
situation and agree a solution for managing your account going forward
Given Mr C received this letter out of the blue, without contact from Capquest, then I can see 
why he would have been unhappy with it. I cant agree the letter was threatening, as it clearly sets out the purpose of the visit. But I dont think it should have been sent in the first 
place given they hadnt tried to contact Mr C prior to sending this  and there was a Covid-19 
lockdown in place. Ill consider this in the summary section at the end.
Phone call
Capquest said they felt the agent could have handled the call in a better tone, that the agent 
didnt direct Mr C to the company website for a query properly, and should have offered a 
Team Manager to call Mr C back on  when the person Mr C wanted to speak to couldnt be 
contacted. Mr C was unhappy with these points  along with how long the call took, and the 
time he was placed on hold.
Ive listened to the call and I can hear Mr C was very upset by receiving the letter above  he 
starts the call by initially refusing to answer data protection questions and shouting at the 
agent. He wanted Capquest to explain why theyve sent him the above letter.
Capquest say theyre happy to try and help him and asked what his intentions are with the 
account  hes said hell make payment by a method they dont accept.
I think its worth explaining its for each company to decide what payment methods theyll 
accept. I can see in Capquests letters they always set out the payment methods they 
accept, and the one Mr C says he wants to use isnt included. I dont think Capquest have 
done anything wrong here.
In listening to the call, I do think some things could have been handled slightly better by 
Capquests agent  but overall, I thought she handled the call quite professionally.
Ive noted for the issues Capquest identified they paid Mr C £150 compensation. Ill consider 
this next.
Summary 
Overall I think Capquest have acted fairly in saying they cant get the statements. I dont 
think they should have sent the letter, Capquest can offer whatever payment methods they 
like and theyve said the phone call could have been handled better.
Mr C has been compensated £150 for the issues mentioned in this complaint  I do think 
thats fair for what happened. Because of that, I dont think anything further is due.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman