DRN-3894575
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined 
a claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss A contacted RSA to make a claim when the ceiling collapsed in a bedroom. RSA 
declined the claim because it said, based on what Miss A had described, it could only be 
considered as Accidental Damage, but Miss A didnt have that cover.
Miss A then provided a report on the cause of damage. RSA said the claim still wasnt 
covered. When Miss A complained, RSA said Miss As builder had confirmed hammering 
from the neighbouring property had a significant impact on the ceiling collapsing. It said, this 
would fall within the definition of accidental damage, but Miss A didnt have that cover. Miss 
As builder had also said water ingress over time caused the ceiling to collapse. RSA said 
the policy didnt cover gradual damage.
When Miss A complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said it was 
reasonable for RSA to decline the claim, as Miss A didnt have accidental damage cover and 
the policy didnt cover gradual damage.
As Miss A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
For a claim to be covered under a policy, the damage needs to be the result of an insured 
peril, such as storm, fire or an escape of water. When Miss A contacted RSA to make a 
claim, she didnt know why the ceiling had collapsed. Based on what Miss A said, RSA 
decided the only possibility was accidental damage, but Miss A didnt have this cover. So, 
RSA declined to deal with the claim.
Miss A then provided a report from a builder that said:
Evidence of water ingress was identified along with a badly stained ceiling which overtime 
has caused the ceiling to collapse. It was noted the party wall was also damaged with 
cracked plaster.

Miss [A] advised that the neighbouring property has been hammering day and night this 
would certainly have exacerbated the problem with vibration which has also had a significant 
impact making the ceiling collapse.
The report doesnt clearly explain how water was entering the ceiling, although it did refer to 
changes to the roof construction. However, Miss As builder found evidence of water 
damaging the ceiling over a period of time. The policy had an exclusion for damage that 
happened gradually. So, I think it was fair for RSA to decide the policy didnt provide cover.
The builder also described issues caused by work in the neighbouring property. Given what 
was described, I think it was reasonable for RSA to decide this could only be considered as 
accidental damage and to decline to look at this because Miss A didnt have that cover.
Im aware Miss A has also said she had a new roof fitted and that the roof tiles werent fitted 
correctly, as well as other issues with how the new roof was constructed. However, the 
policy didnt cover faulty design or poor workmanship. So, there also wasnt cover for this.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think it was reasonable for RSA to decide there wasnt 
cover under the policy and for it to decline to deal with the claim. As a result, I dont uphold 
this complaint or require RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman