DRN-2960856
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a personal loan payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr P took out the single premium PPI in 1987 at the same time as applying for the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has any paperwork from the sale which is not surprising given how long 
ago it took place. However, from what we know of Lloyds sales processes at the time, the 
PPI was usually presented as optional. Mr P has said that he was encouraged to take out 
the policy but that is not the same as being pressured into having it or being told that he had 
to have it. The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ps recollection 
of events has faded. Overall I dont have sufficient evidence to conclude that Mr P wasnt 
given a choice about buying the PPI. It seems to me that he probably decided to buy it, 
knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Its possible that Lloyds advised Mr P to take out the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to 
him, Lloyds would have needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what Ive seen of 
Mr Ps circumstances at the time, the PPI was suitable for him. Mr P says he would have 
received sick pay from his job. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay 
and potentially for longer than Mr P would have received full pay for. Mr P says he had some 
savings but having the policy would have allowed him to retain any savings or use them to 
cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. And Mr P didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions that might have affected his ability to make a successful 
claim.
The policy did not provide a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early and therefore might not 
suit someone who was likely to want to redeem the loan early, for example because they 
were refinancing. But I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr P needed the flexibility to be 
able to do that at the time of the sale. So it was reasonable for Lloyds to advise Mr P that the 
PPI was suitable for him.
It is unclear whether Mr P was told that the policy premium attracted interest and what the 
cost of that interest might be. But the interest was such a small part of the overall lending 
that Im not persuaded it would have altered Mr Ps decision to buy the policy.
Its possible that Lloyds could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr P wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont consider that further 
information would have caused him to change his mind. So he is no worse off as a result of 
anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so theres nothing Lloyds needs to do to put things 
right. It follows that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman