DRN-3759186
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that ClearBank Limited closed its business account on 
short notice and without an explanation. C is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as 
Ms S. 
Cs account is operated via a platform provided by ClearBanks business partner under the 
Tide brand. Ms S refers to Cs account with Tide, and she corresponds with Tide about the 
account. So, while its ClearBank that provides the bank account at the centre of the 
complaint, Ill refer to Tide in my decision.
What happened
Tide told Ms S it intended to close Cs account. Ms S asked Tide to keep the account open, 
for more time to find a new provider and for an explanation for closing the account.
Our investigator said Tide was entitled to end relationships with customers without an 
explanation. He said we cant fairly require it to provide an explanation or re-open the 
account. 
Ms S didnt agree, saying Tides decision was unfair, and left C without an account for clients 
to pay into, or for her to pay staff and other expenses. 
Ms S said Tide had re-instated Cs account, but it then removed the overdraft facility and 
said it was closing the account. Our investigator said this wasnt part of the complaint 
brought to us, or raised with Tide so we cant look into it here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tide told Ms S it was closing Cs business account. It said this followed a review of the 
account, and referred her to the terms and conditions for reasons why it closes accounts. 
I can understand Ms Ss frustration, and that this caused difficulties for C. But Tide is entitled 
to close accounts and I cant fairly require it to maintain or re-open Cs account. Tide doesnt 
have to give a reason for closing the account, and I cant fairly require it to give further 
explanations to Ms S about its decision.
It seems from what Ms S has said, that Tide did allow more time before closing Cs account. 
I hope this was some help in organising another account for C. Im sorry if there were issues 
regarding the overdraft facility, but as the investigator explained this wasnt part of the 
complaint brought to us so I cant look into it here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman