DRN-3351228
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt refunded him all the money 
he paid towards a scam investment. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here in detail. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr C found company R online. He was contacted by an agent for R and they helped him set 
up an account with a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. He moved money from his bank 
account to this exchange to invest with R. He sent payments between January and March 
2021, when he realised that R was a scam.
Halifax agreed to refund him 50% of the payments he sent in March 2021 as it agreed it 
should have intervened at this time. Mr C disagreed that he should hold any responsibility.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At this point, Mr C has received a partial refund from Halifax. So this decision will focus on 
whether this amount is correct, or whether he is due more than this. 
Halifax hasnt refunded Mr C any of the initial payments he made to this scam. Im in 
agreement that he should be responsible for these. Looking at his account activity, they are 
not so unusual or uncharacteristic for him that Halifax ought to have intervened and blocked 
them. They are relatively low value and spread out over a number of weeks. And they go to 
a genuine cryptocurrency exchange. 
However in early March 2021, Mr C sent a £10,000 payment and then later in March an 
£8,500 payment . Hes said he feels its unfair hes to blame for what happened, as if hed 
have known it was a scam, he wouldnt have handed over his money. But its not simply 
about what Mr C knew, its about what he ought to  or could reasonably have known. 
Afterall, someone who doesnt ask questions or do research into what they are investing in is 
likely not to know much about what is going on. But it wouldnt be fair to say a customer can 
simply hand over their funds and then expect a bank to refund them later if things go wrong. 
Mr C does have a level of personal responsibility, and in this case, I consider it involves him 
looking into the opportunity before parting with his funds. And this needs to be proportionate, 
so the more money that is sent, the greater the research required. 
As our investigator set out, by the time Mr C invested the larger sums there were a number 
of concerning things about R online. Doing an internet search of R wouldve brought up a 
well-known and trusted website that publishes customer reviews and many of Rs reviews 
were negative and some said that it was a scam. I accept there were limited reviews when 
Mr C first invested in January 2021, but by March 2021, when Mr C dramatically increased 
his spending, the reviews strongly suggested R wasnt legitimate. R was also not regulated 
and his agent used remote access software to assist Mr C with his investing. 
Mr C took out a loan to fund the £10,000 payment, but when he applied for this, the online 
application states its for home improvements. Its not clear why he wasnt honest with the 
bank, but it is clear from his testimony that he always intended to invest these funds. It was 
R that suggested he take this loan and reassured him his returns would cover the borrowing. 
This is another reason I consider Mr C does need to share responsibility. Taking out a loan 
is a change in behaviour and how the scam is operating. Its one thing to invest money you 
have available, but borrowing money to invest adds greater risk. And Mr C did so without 
revealing the true purpose of the borrowing to the bank. If hed researched R before taking 
out this loan, I think hed have seen the negative reviews and realised this wasnt a 
legitimate venture. He also prevented the bank from intervening before he was granted the 
borrowing by not putting the true purpose of the funds.
Halifax has refunded Mr C 50% of the March 2021 payments and I think this is fair. Im 
satisfied he should share equal responsibility in this case, as he sent these large sums 
without adequate research into R or what he was doing. By doing thorough research at the 
start Mr C couldve possibly avoided losing any money to this scam, but I certainly think that 
he couldve prevented his bigger losses. While a large payment leaving his account 
shouldve triggered an intervention by Halifax, he also shouldve done more before 
borrowing and sending these funds. So Im not directing Halifax to refund him any further 
funds, as I consider what its already refunded is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman