DRN-4135754
The complaint
Miss C complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) handled a 
claim under her motor insurance policy. Miss C is represented in this case, but for ease Ill 
refer to her throughout. When I mention Admiral, I also mean its suppliers and repairers. 
What happened
Miss C had a motor insurance policy with Admiral covering her car. The car was damaged, 
and she reported a claim to Admiral on 22 November 2022.
She didnt get a courtesy car she thought she was entitled to under the terms of her policy. 
She struggled to contact Admirals repairer and get updates from Admiral.
On 28 December, her car was assessed as being beyond economical repair by Admiral, and 
was written-off.
Admiral offered her an amount for the car, but she didnt think it was enough.
She complained to Admiral about its claims service, because she didnt have a car for seven 
weeks, its low valuation of her car and her increased costs due to taking public transport.
Admiral upheld most of her complaint. It said its call hold times had been long. It said Miss C 
wasnt entitled to a courtesy car because her car couldnt be repaired. It increased the 
amount it offered her for the car, and it paid £250 compensation for her inconvenience. It 
also agreed to pay interest on the settlement amount of the car during the delays it caused.
Miss C brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and upheld it. He 
identified that Admiral had delayed processing the car as a write-off by 12 days, and a 
further 12 day delay in paying her the correct value for her car. He said Admiral should pay 
24 days at £10 per day, so £240 for her loss of use, in addition to the £250 it had already 
paid her.
Miss C agreed with the view, but Admiral didnt. It said there wasnt any cover under the 
policy for a courtesy car in Miss Cs situation, so it hadnt caused her to be without a car. It 
said the £250 compensation already took into account the delay itd caused in settling Miss 
Cs claim.
Because Admiral didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Miss Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
The situation as I see it is that Miss C has now received and accepted the settlement 
amount for her car, plus interest at 8% simple because of the extra delay Admiral caused in 
paying her.
Ive looked at what happened during Miss Cs claim. 
Admiral said thered been a system error when it instructed its repairer to handle Miss Cs 
car. Then there was a problem when Admirals repairer didnt collect Miss Cs car. It seems 
to have effectively rejected to carry out the repair work and I can see that two of the 
repairers had no capacity to fit the car in.
The car was undriveable, but this information doesnt seem to have filtered through Admirals 
system and repairer network, causing delays in assessing the car. 
Admirals claims system was changed during the process and some of its claims staff 
couldnt operate the new system, meaning Miss C wasnt able to speak to staff who could 
help her.
Then Admiral didnt assess the car quickly despite Miss C having sent it images of the 
damage shortly after the damage happened. 
Then Admiral raised a cheque for the settlement value of her car, but Miss C objected. 
Admiral then cancelled the cheque and re-issued it for a higher amount, this process taking 
about 12 more days.
Looking at all of these issues with Admirals claims process, I think its clear that Miss Cs 
claims journey was poor. There is a comment on our file that she couldnt imagine Admiral 
being less useful, and given the evidence I have about what she experienced I am inclined 
to agree. I dont think Admirals process was effective and I think its fairly responsible for all 
of the delays to Miss Cs claim and settlement. 
Miss C has also complained about the lack of courtesy car. Her policy includes a courtesy 
car which would be provided by one of Admirals approved repairers once itd accepted her 
car into their garage for repair. But because Admirals system had errors, and data wasnt 
being passed on, and the repairers were too busy, Miss Cs car wasnt accepted. And I dont 
think thats very good service. 
Once it became clear to Admiral about the extent of damage to Miss Cs car, it still seems to 
have taken it a further 13 days to formalise the assessment, and then a further week until the 
cheque was authorised to send. I do appreciate this was over the Christmas period, but 
throughout this time I have to take into account that Miss C was without transport.
Ive mentioned above that Admiral responded to the view and said we havent caused Miss 
C to be without a vehicle. It said this because there was no cover for a courtesy car under 
her policy following the car being written-off. 
But I dont agree with this comment  its clear to me that Admiral caused numerous delays 
during the claim, and the lack of available repairers directly led to Miss C not being provided 
with either a courtesy car while hers was being fixed; or a swifter assessment meaning her 
car would be written off faster and she would have received the settlement cheque quicker.
I know Admiral has paid Miss C £250 compensation for her distress and inconvenience, and 
it says this amount also takes into account Miss Cs extra costs. But I dont think this is 
enough. The extended period during which Miss C was waiting for Admiral to get her car to a 
repairer, assess it, write it off and send her payment all meant she was without a car for a 
period of time. And I dont think its reasonable of Admiral to say its already considered Miss Cs extra costs and inconvenience within that amount.
So I think its fair for me to require Admiral to pay Miss C for the loss of use of a car caused 
by its poor service and capacity and systems problems. I can see that there was a delay of 
about 12 days assessing the car for write-off, and a further 12 day delay paying the correct 
settlement amount. Its this services approach that loss of use of a vehicle is paid for at £10 
per day, so Im going to require Admiral to pay £240 in respect of this to Miss C.
Ive also looked at this services guidelines for her distress and inconvenience, and I think 
the £250 Admiral has already paid Miss C is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to pay Miss C:
24 days at £10 per day for the loss of use of a car, so £240 in total.
£250 for her distress and inconvenience. Its my understanding that this amount has 
already been paid.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman