DRN-3322979
The complaint
Ms B complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs refusal to continue to assist her in obtaining the 
refund she has requested.
What happened
I set out the background to Ms Bs complaint in the provisional decision I issued in January 
2022. However, I will set out that background again here.
In summary, Ms B complains that she applied for a part-time job as a model with a company 
I will call M. Further, it was her understanding that she would be an employee of M. Miss B 
heard about M and the part-time job from an advert M placed on a social media site. 
It is Ms Bs stance that M told her, amongst other things, that it was a modelling platform 
and that it was guaranteed to find her modelling work. But in order to secure the part-time 
job she would need a portfolio of photos. These photos were to be provided by a third party, 
that is a totally separate company, who I will call N. 
As a result, Ms B made separate payments to both M and to N. But, according to Ms B, the 
information, on which she relied, was inaccurate. In particular she suggests she was not 
offered any work and she wants her money back. Although, Ms B did attend a photoshoot 
with N and it seems she did receive the portfolio of photos from it. 
Ms B complained to HSBC. 
HSBC tried to recover the payments Ms B made to N. HSBC tried to do this via a process 
known as chargeback. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes can be resolved 
between card issuers and merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card scheme 
rules. The parties have to stick to these rules, this means that there is no discretion to go 
beyond these rules, for example to include a third party. where the wider circumstances of 
the complaint might mean that one of the card issuers and their customer think these wider 
circumstances are relevant, I will discuss this point in more detail later.
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for HSBC to ask for a 
payment Ms B made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services 
arent as described/misrepresented by the company Ms B paid. A chargeback doesnt 
guarantee a refund. Ns bank could put forward a defence from N to any chargeback claim. If 
the chargeback is defended, HSBC could pursue the chargeback further and ultimately ask 
the card scheme provider to arbitrate on the outcome.
Moreover, HSBC was aware that Ms B was unhappy with both M and N. But for the 
purposes of pursuing N via the chargeback process under the rules of the card scheme it 
could only look at the actions of N.
In this instance HSBC did raise a first and second chargeback claim against N. The claims 
were defended by Ns bank on behalf of N, on the basis that Ms B had a contract with N. Ms 
B had been provided with the terms and conditions of the contract with N before the 
photoshoot. These terms and conditions did not permit refunds and Ms B had contracted on 
this basis. Plus, the goods she paid for had been as described and she had received them.
In the light of Ns defence HSBC did not agree that it had any proper grounds to ask the card 
scheme provider to go to the next stage of the process and arbitrate on the outcome. 
Accordingly, HSBC declined to take the chargeback process any further. However, it did 
agree it had taken too long, at one point, to take action and it paid Ms B £100 for this.
Dissatisfied Ms B came to our service.
I looked into Ms Bs complaint. I issued a provisional decision. In that provisional decision I 
said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key question, as I see it, is whether HSBC did enough here, or whether it should have
reasonably pursued this matter further. And if it had done, what is likely to have happened in
any event. In order to decide this, I have considered what I think is fair and reasonable in the
particular circumstances of Ms Bs case.
When thinking about this key question I have paid close attention to the chargeback scheme
rules. I accept that HSBCs ability to manoeuvre was defined by the parameters of those
rules. I have considered whether what Ms B supplied to HSBC met the minimum
requirements for it to effectively carry out a chargeback on her behalf. To do this I have had
reference to the card scheme rules which I understand were in place at the time, as I have
already mentioned.
I have borne in mind that the card scheme operator is not a court and does not operate as
one. Rather it has a far more limited role it is an international organisation which facilitates 
payments between different banks in the same and different countries. Its regulations seek 
to maintain a balance between merchants supplying goods and services, customers of these 
merchants, and the banks acting for each of them. Accordingly, in the case of the purchase 
and supply of services, the regulations only permit a chargeback to the extent that there is a 
valid chargeback reason against the merchant. Moreover, the chargeback process is against 
N (the merchant), not M (the third party).
That said, I do not doubt that there was certainly co-operation between N and M. Neither 
party seems to dispute that Ms B would not have contracted with N but for the contract she 
had with M. Although in the circumstances I think it would be difficult to say that N was the 
agent of M. However, I need make no finding about whether there was an agent and 
principal relationship here between N and M, for the purposes of this complaint. Therefore, I 
make no finding on that point.
The difficulty for Ms B is that she does not dispute that she received what she contracted 
with N to receive. Rather she is suggesting that her wider separate contract with M was 
misrepresented and breached because M did not act in good faith and was never going to 
provide the goods and services it promised and which she contracted with it to provide. As a 
result, the photo portfolio was worthless in a sense because she only paid for this on the 
understanding that it was a precursor to getting work from M.
If it were this wider point [about M] that I was able to look at in this complaint I would find her 
stance persuasive. But I dont agree that I do have the freedom here to look at her wider 
point. I say this because the chargeback was against N not M. Further, the scheme rules do 
not appear to permit HSBC to advance arguments about the wider context of the contract 
with M to explain why Ms B suggests the goods and services she received from N were not 
as described. I can well understand if Ms B finds this frustrating and upsetting. It seems from 
the submissions that I have seen the scheme operator is aware of the wider context in any 
event, and this awareness has not swayed its opinion at the earlier stages. It follows I think it 
is unlikely that even if HSBC had asked the scheme operator to look again at this matter and 
put particular emphasis on the wider circumstances I doubt that this would most likely [have 
led] to a successful chargeback.For all these reasons it follows I cant say it is fair and reasonable that HSBC ought to have 
pursued this matter further.
My provisional decision was that I did not intend to uphold Ms Bs complaint.
I invited the parties to respond to the provisional decision. They both did. 
HSBC responded to say, at this stage the bank has no further comments to add. 
Ms Bs response covered a number of points. In summary, she did not agree with the 
provisional decision. She suggested I had not understood her complaint very well and that I 
had not read the whole file. She told us she was disappointed and suggested that I had not 
read the whole file seriously and carefully. Ms B sent us again the documents she suggested 
supported her complaint. 
Further, Ms B repeated the points she had made previously about why she had contracted 
with both N and M. She objected to the part of the provisional decision where I said Ms B did 
not does dispute that she received what she contracted with N to receive.
Moreover, Ms B mentioned how M had behaved which she characterised as being tricky 
and dishonest. She told us about finding comments on the internet about the same situation 
she had experienced. Ms B also mentioned that there was a decision on our intranet about a 
complaint like hers that had been upheld. On this basis she considered her complaint ought 
to be upheld too.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ms B and HSBC for their responses to the provisional decision.
Ive reviewed the complete file once again and revisited my provisional decision.
I would like to reassure Ms B that I had already read all the information that she had 
provided before I issued the provisional decision. This information is the same as the 
information she sent again in response to the provisional decision.
I take on board that Ms B is very upset about M as well as about N. But this complaint is only 
looking at the role of N. Ms B had two contracts one with M and one with N. What she is 
asking me to do is to look at the overall contract she had with M. But I simply dont have the 
power to do that here. As I explained in the provisional decision, Ms B complains that HSBC 
did not act correctly in relation to the chargeback. But the chargeback was against N who is 
the merchant for the purposes of the chargeback not M. This means when assessing if there 
is any valid chargeback reason that would permit her claim to succeed the only thing I can 
look at in these very particular individual circumstances, is the contract she had with N. This 
in turn is because that is what the chargeback rules permit.
Under Ms Bs contract with N it was meant to take her photo and create a portfolio of photos 
for her. It did that as far as I am aware. It is not relevant to the chargeback that a third party 
M had made representations to her about its contract with her that she says are untrue. By 
contrast, if the chargeback was against M the representations made by M would, I think be 
very relevant. Or if I could fairly say on the facts, it appeared that N was merely the agent of 
M again I could have looked at the actions of M. I recognise from Ms Bs perspective it was 
all one deal, she would not have contracted with N but for her contract with M. Therefore, I 
can well understand if she finds this frustrating. 
I do not want to further upset Ms B, far from it. However, as I have mentioned above N did 
provide what it contracted with her to provide. So that is why I said she does not dispute that 
she received what she contracted with N to receive. In the sense that she got the photoshoot 
and the portfolio of photos. Further, because of this N had a strong very likely unassailable defence under the very strict and limited chargeback rules. That being so, in the 
circumstances, HSBCs decision to proceed no further was neither unfair nor unreasonable. I 
can well understand if Ms B does not see it that way though.
I cant tell from what Ms B says if she has found comments on the internet about the 
behaviour of M and or N. While we would look at evidence about the general behaviour of a 
contracting party in this sort of complaint, it would have to be specific enough to throw light 
on what most likely happened in the individual circumstances of this complaint. She has not 
told me what comments she refers to nor how these comments would have weakened Ns 
defence to the chargeback.
As far as I am aware we do not have a published decision which turns on the exact same 
facts as this one or similar facts where we upheld the complaint. Even if such a decision 
does exist, I would not be bound by my colleagues decision in that complaint, because 
ombudsmens decisions are not binding precedents in the way that the courts decisions are. 
I am required to form my own view of this individual complaint, rather than to follow the views 
of others in other complaints.
I have not been persuaded by the response from Ms B to the provisional decision. It follows I 
have reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as I set out in the provisional 
decision and in this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman