DRN-1909243
Complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
with a store card in 1983.
The card in question was a Debenhams card, but the credit facility for the account was 
provided by a high street bank. The bank has therefore been responding to us about this 
complaint and has evidently been carrying out an investigation. 
However, the company which is responsible overall for answering these types of complaint is 
called AXA France IARD. Ill mainly refer to this company in my final decision.
Background
It looks like the card was taken out in a department store and obtained by filling out an 
application leaflet, probably at the counter. Mrs C alleged PPI was added on to the card and 
charged over quite a few years. But she says it was implied by the store assistant that she 
had to have PPI with her card account.
One of our adjudicators assessed this complaint some time ago and noted some £682.74 
had been applied to Mrs Cs account over its lifetime, recorded amongst other things as PPI 
Life. The adjudicator tried hard to get AXA France IARD to explain what this referred to but 
received responses which provided very little help. The replies were short, lacked detail and 
were somewhat cumbersome to come by. This caused a lot of work in trying to establish 
what exactly took place and whether PPI was ever sold with the card. It has also caused 
very unreasonable delays for Mrs C in getting to the bottom of what happened. 
In summary, AXA France IARD denied PPI had been sold with the card account. However, 
the evidence to support that view, in my opinion, is weak and AXA France IARDs 
explanation lacks depth. And based on the apparent presence of PPI over the lifetime of the 
card account and the failure of the business to provide a reasonable explanation (as we 
would expect from a large regulated body) our adjudicator said it was more likely that PPI 
had in fact been mis-sold, as described by Mrs C. AXA France IARD disagreed with this, but 
again without adding any context or an in-depth explanation of what actually had happened. 
So the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
I provided AXA France IARD with a further opportunity to properly investigate this matter. By 
that I mean I issued a Provisional Decision (PD), on 30 April 2020, broadly agreeing with our 
adjudicator. I explained that I thought it was more likely PPI had been sold to Mrs C, given 
the description of the £682.74 lifetime insurance charge. In my PD, I set out 
comprehensively why I thought this and said I also thought the responses by AXA France 
IARD had been wholly inadequate up to that point. 
In my PD I therefore asked either party to provide any further clarifications or evidence if 
they wished, and I said that I would issue a Final Decision after 30 May 2020.
In response Mrs C said she didnt want to add anything. AXA France IARD, on the other 
hand, failed to reply in time. However, in the light of the COVID-19 situation I allowed a little more time for responses. It was nevertheless necessary for me to email and telephone the 
business outside the arrangements I had set in my PD. 
We received an email after the PD deadline, but again with very little explanation provided, 
and another one shortly after that which again speculated that the costs outlined above 
related to optional indemnity cover and not PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Having done this, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint about being mis-sold PPI with her store 
card.
Ive taken into account that the sale was some considerable time ago. Im also sympathetic 
to the fact that AXA France IARD has only limited electronic records to refer to, which isnt 
unusual or indeed unreasonable given the sale was some 37 years ago.
Nevertheless, it is also important to remember that Mrs C had this account for many years 
and we know records must have existed as to its usage or other activity as recently as 2012. 
Its also been disappointing that AXA France IARD has responded so poorly to this 
complaint and Ive taken into account its responses which provide very little detail about the 
alternative product sale which it says must have taken place. 
Its investigation has, in my view, assumed from the beginning that PPI was never sold and 
anything it said after that seeks merely to stick to that view without even-handedly examining 
fairly obvious facts which appear to point the other way. It seems to me, for example, that 
the business view is wholly based on Mrs Cs card account being tagged with a product 
code which is normally associated with optional indemnity cover rather than PPI. However, 
AXA France IARD has failed to adequately explain how optional indemnity cover would have 
been sold, or more importantly, why it racked up excessively high charges that do not seem 
credible for that type of financial product. We know this type of indemnity insurance is 
usually relatively cheap.
After the date I set in my PD for the final decision submissions  and once again at my 
instigation  we got a reply from AXA France IARD repeating that it thought the cost related 
to indemnity cover. I note the response acknowledges that the costs incurred do appear to 
substantially outweigh the amount we would expect to see for this type of product. But AXA 
France IARD seems silent on this obvious anomaly and so has failed to add any further 
explanation or context, which Im afraid has been a common feature of this case.
In short, I dont accept AXA France IARDs explanation which in my view is weak and largely 
unsupported. It has failed to explain how indemnity cover was sold on this card or the 
discrepancies regarding the costs, which in my view are far more commensurate with PPI 
charges. It has failed to otherwise show that PPI was not sold. The only evidence we seem 
to have for these charges not being PPI are a product code on the electronic ledger which 
is normally associated with indemnity cover. Taken as a whole therefore, the costs incurred 
and the description of those costs (examples include PPI life figures) all make it more likely, 
in my view, that PPI was indeed sold to Mrs C.
AXA France IARD invited Mrs C to come up with evidence that she had PPI on her card 
account by producing her card account statements. My understanding is that she can no longer produce these. However, if the business itself is unable to supply us with copies of 
Mrs C card statements  and it has had ample time to do this  then I cant see why its 
prejudicial to her case that Mrs C cant so the same.
I have also thought carefully about Mrs Cs original allegation points. She describes events 
Ive heard before in similar complaint scenarios involving these types of store card and so 
Ive got no reason to think shes mistaken or cant remember what happened. We also know 
that at around this time, it was common for these types of store card account to require 
consumers to de-select the PPI if they didnt want to have it. In other words, it was 
automatically added on to the account unless the consumer specifically said otherwise. This 
type of sale practice is something we consider to be inherently unfair.
My findings are therefore that its more likely that PPI, rather than any other financial 
product, was sold to Mrs C. Ive carefully viewed the screenshots that have been sent over 
to us. And like our adjudicator, I do not think they show that PPI wasnt sold at all. In fact, I 
think that the screenshots show the opposite  I think its more likely PPI was sold. I also 
think that Mrs Cs explanation and what we know about these accounts make it more likely 
the PPI was portrayed as something she had to have with her account or otherwise added 
without her express authority. 
Im upholding the complaint in full and AXA France IARD must now pay back the £682.74 it 
charged Mrs C, with interest.
Redress
AXA France IARD should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI. It may need to make some reasonable assumptions about the period over 
which the £682.74 was charged.
A. AXA France IARD should find out how much Mrs C would have owed when she 
closed her credit card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA France IARD should then refund the difference between what Mrs C owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA France IARD can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA France IARD should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C 
would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she 
gets the refund. The interest rate should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a 
year from then on.
 
C. If  when AXA France IARD works out what Mrs C would have owed each month 
without PPI  Mrs C paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA France IARD 
should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs C paid. And it should carry on 
paying interest until the point when Mrs C wouldve owed AXA France IARD 
something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 15% a year until April 1993 
and 8% a year from then on.
 
D. AXA France IARD should tell Mrs C what its done to work out A, B and C. HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA France IARD to take off tax from this interest. AXA 
France IARD must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Cs complaint against AXA France IARD and I direct it to pay the 
compensation I have set out above.
I ask Mrs C to let us know by 8 July 2020 whether she accepts or rejects this decision.
 
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman