DRN-4094977
The complaint
Mr F complains about the settlement offered by AXA Insurance Designated Activity 
Company following the total loss of his vehicle after an accident. 
What happened
Mr F had car insurance that was underwritten by AXA. In February 2023 he was involved in 
an accident that resulted in his car being declared beyond economical repair. AXA offered a 
settlement of £6,000. However Mr F said he was unable to purchase a suitable replacement 
for this amount, so he made a complaint. 
AXA didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had based its valuation on trade guides that 
provided a reliable value for the car based on its specification and mileage. Unhappy with 
this, Mr F brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought AXAs settlement offer was fair and reasonable and didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr F didnt agree. He said the trade guides provide 
bottom line prices that dealers use and then subsequently resell them at a higher price. So 
they arent a fair guide for a replacement vehicle. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whether a valuation is fair and reasonable, we consider prices provided 
by trade guides. This service considers these to generally be the most reliable for 
calculations as they are based on the amount vehicles have been sold for to the general 
population and take into account the specific car make and model, mileage and age. As well 
as the condition of the car.
AXAs provided copies of the three trade guides it used to reach the calculation. These 
calculated the value as £5,825, £5,390, £6,990 and £5,273. It offered a settlement of £6,000 
and as the average of these guide prices is slightly less than this amount, I think thats a fair 
settlement. 
I note Mr F has said he has been unable to find a vehicle for the same amount. Hes said he 
can only find vehicles over £7,000 that are of the same condition and specification. However 
this isnt enough to persuade me that AXAs offer is unfair.
Mr Fs policy states that in the result of loss or damage to the car it will pay up to the market 
value. This is defined in the policy as:
Market value - The amount that we may pay for your car immediately prior to the loss
or damage.
The trade guides AXA has used base their valuations on the value of the car at the time of 
the loss. And on the exact specification of the vehicle. That means its more likely the guides 
will provide an accurate match for the value for the specific vehicle at that specific time, 
rather than advertised vehicles that will vary in mileage and age. And the policy only requires 
AXA to pay the market value of that vehicle and not the cost of a replacement. So I think 
AXAs offer meets its obligations under the policy terms. 
It is also of note that in response to Mr F raising that he had replaced his tyres shortly before 
the loss, that AXA sent him a further £500 to account for this. 
Based on everything, I think AXA has acted fairly and reasonably when settling Mr Fs claim. 
I therefore wont ask it to do anything further. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman