DRN-3593862
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a payment she says she didnt 
make from her account.
What happened
Miss B reported a payment of £400 made using mobile banking as fraudulent. She says she 
didnt allow anyone else to make payments from her account. She didnt know the person 
named as receiving the payment and the reference was for rent which couldnt have related 
to her.
Barclays said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It said that it didnt accept that this 
payment was made fraudulently and so it was holding her liable.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that it was most 
likely that the payment was made by Miss B or someone known to her with her permission. 
The passcode had been used to log into her account and the device was one which had 
been registered for a number of weeks before the payment. It had been used before to 
access the account. In order to set up this new payee the 16-digit card number, expiry date 
and three-digit security code would be required. So, whoever made the payment would need 
to have access to the device and the security information. 
Miss B didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She said 
the name of the person the money was sent to wasnt someone known to her. And there was 
no proof she did know this person, so she couldnt see how the conclusions had been 
reached. This was a random one-off payment for her supposed rent which she didnt 
recognise. She provided details of her actual tenancy agreement, the amount of rent she 
paid and how the payment was made. The letting agent had written to state that there was 
no one of the name quoted on the disputed payment involved with the property or its 
business. And Miss B has also provided details she said showed family members were 
based overseas and this payment couldnt be connected to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if a payment wasnt  
authorised Miss B wouldnt generally be responsible for it
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. 
And I will consider the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how this payment was made?
- Did Miss B authorise the payment on the account, which could have involved allowing 
someone else to be able to make it?
Barclays has provided information about how the payment was authenticated. It followed a 
log on to mobile banking with Miss Bs passcode and using a device that was already 
registered and had been used before for genuine access to the account. The payment went 
to a new payee and this was set up using her card information. So, Im satisfied that the 
payment was authenticated. 
Miss B told this service that she is the only person with access to her phone and it was with 
her on the day the payment was made, and she was then at home. She said she had never 
allowed anyone else to make transactions on her behalf. She was notified about an 
attempted payment and then saw in the app the payment of £400 had been sent. 
Barclays has shown that no other device was used that day to access the account other than 
the one used to make the payment. Ive noted that the disputed payment was made at 21:41 
and that by 22:18 as a result of Miss Bs call the card associated with her account had been 
marked as lost. Miss B told Barclays that her card remained in her possession and it noted 
that she was accessing the app during the call. 
Ive seen that two payments to a food delivery business were processed to her account on 
28 November 2021 for £12.07 and £14.46 under a continuous payment authority. These 
were later refunded to Miss B by Barclays given that her existing card had by then been 
cancelled. The continuous payment authority was cancelled when she reported this on 3 
December 2021. As these were refunded for this reason and the payment that is still in 
dispute was made using mobile banking I havent needed to look into those.
I have considered the further evidence Miss B has provided. But she hasnt been able to 
give any explanation for how an unknown third party could have accessed a device already 
registered to the account and made the payment. Shes described her accommodation at the 
time and doesnt suspect any of the people who she lived with. The device involved seemed 
to be available to her just after the payment. Although I have noted her comments about the 
name of the person and the reference associated with the payment, it isnt necessary for 
Barclays to prove she knew a person of that name. What Im thinking about is whether the 
payment could have been made without her authorisation. Im afraid I dont see any likely 
explanation for that taking into account how the payment was made and her evidence about 
how she kept her security information safe. Thats something she was in any event 
reasonably required to do by Barclays.
So, Im afraid I think it most likely that the payment was authorised, and this could have also 
included someone known to her accessing the account with details shed provided. I 
appreciate how disappointed Miss B will be by this outcome.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman