DRN-1733805
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1993. Mr N says Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold him the PPI.  
What happened
Briefly:
In 1993 Mr N took out PPI at the same time as arranging a mortgage during a branch 
meeting.
The policy provided protection for Mr N's mortgage payments - around £150 - in the event he 
couldn't work because of accident and sickness only. The policy would pay out for up to 
12 months per claim and it cost around £6 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr N was self-employed, so he didn't have any sick pay entitlement. 
But he says he had several thousand pounds in savings and could've relied on his partner's 
income to make his repayments. He said he was in good health at the time.
B&B's records show the mortgage account ended in 2000.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Mr N chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for him.
Because Mr N disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr N's complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mr N was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold his complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr N have a choice about PPI? 
I think B&B made it clear that Mr N didn't have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. 
B&B has provided a copy of Mr N's mortgage application. Looking at this I can see there was 
a separate PPI section towards the end of the application where Mr N was asked if he 
wanted cover. And there is a 'YES'  written in the box.I can see Mr N says the handwriting isn't his. And this doesn't surprise me given things 
happened during a branch meeting - I consider it likely and reasonable that the branch 
representative completed it on Mr N's behalf. But that doesn't mean Mr N didn't agree to PPI 
or there wasn't a discussion about it. I say this because Mr N only took out accident and 
sickness cover and not the unemployment part of the cover. I think this is significant because 
as a self-employed person the unemployment cover wouldn't have been appropriate for him 
due to the restrictive claim terms. So, this suggests to me there was a discussion about it at 
the time.
So taking everything into account, including the fact that the event in question happened 
more than 25 years ago, I think Mr N chose and agreed to take out PPI.
the information  
Mr N says B&B advised him to take out PPI; albeit I note he also says he can't remember 
how he took the policy out. B&B says this was a non-advised sale. 
Looking at the way the policy was set out in the mortgage application and in the absence of 
persuasive evidence that B&B did recommend the PPI to Mr N, I don't think this was an 
advised sale. This means B&B didn't have to ensure the policy was right or suitable for Mr N. 
But B&B did have to give him enough clear and timely information about it so Mr N could 
decide for himself if it was right for him. 
I accept its possible the information B&B gave Mr N about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been; albeit I think Mr N understood the cost and the benefit based on the 
paperwork I've seen from the time. But as I found above, I think he chose to take it out - so it 
looks like he wanted this type of cover. And based on his circumstances at the time it doesn't 
appear that it was inappropriate for him - so it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. At £6 a month it also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put Mr N off taking out the cover. 
Mr N says he had savings he could've used to make his repayments, and also could've 
relied on his partner's income. But I'm mindful that the mortgage was in Mr N's name only - 
he was solely responsible for it. The policy would've paid out regardless of the savings Mr N 
had allowing him to retain his savings for longer, or to use them for other ongoing household 
expenditure. Without the cover I think his savings would've quickly been depleted if he found 
himself unable to work for an extended period.
So I think the policy could've proved useful to Mr N and would have helped him protect his 
mortgage payments - and ultimately his home - at what would likely be a difficult and 
perhaps uncertain time. And all at a cost which in my view was relatively insignificant.
This means I dont think Mr N has lost out as a result of having PPI, so B&B doesn't have to 
pay back to Mr N what he paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mr N has said in bringing his complaint. But these points dont 
change my decision. For the reasons I've set out above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman