DRN-3829662
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about administrative errors by National Westminster Bank 
Plc (trading as Ulster Bank but referred to here as NatWest). Because of IT issues, the direct 
debit (DD) for Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage wasnt collected for 11 months, resulting in them 
having to make manual payments.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, NatWest has accepted it made an error and has offered 
compensation, so I only need to decide whether or not that compensation is fair or not. 
Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs B being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of 
what happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs B have a mortgage with NatWest. After switching their current account to a new 
provider, NatWest wasnt able to take payment by DD, due to IT issues. Mr and Mrs B had to 
make manual payments, which caused them considerable inconvenience. After a complaint 
was raised, NatWest offered Mr and Mrs B compensation of £400. But after the complaint 
was raised with our service, the bank increased its offer of compensation to £850. NatWest 
also confirmed it had made an interest adjustment for late payments and was taking steps to 
ensure no adverse data was reported on Mr and Mrs Bs credit files.
Our investigator thought that these steps, along with £850 in total compensation, was fair in 
all the circumstances, and was proportionate to the time and trouble to which Mr and Mrs B 
had been put.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. Mr B, whos dealt with the complaint throughout, has made some 
further points, which I summarise below.
there is no evidence of any impact on his or Mrs Bs credit files, but they didnt apply for 
any credit during this period;
they are very sensitive about their credit files and so they didnt want to take the risk of 
the potential impact if theyd applied for credit;
this is not about the compensation, but is about being treated fairly  and having to deal 
with this for almost a year, plus the impact on their credit files, means they feel the 
outcome does not address these concerns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, NatWest has accepted that an error occurred. Despite the correct sort code 
and account number being put into its system, there was an IT glitch which resulted in the 
DD not being collected. I understand Mr B initially wanted a detailed explanation of why this 
had happened, but he has now accepted that NatWest does not have to provide details of its 
internal systems.
The only issue I need to decide, therefore, is what redress would be fair and reasonable to 
compensate Mr and Mrs B for the trouble and inconvenience of having to make manual 
payments for 11 months. Ive noted what Mr B has said about the worry that there might 
have been an impact on his and Mrs Bs credit files, but NatWest has confirmed it took steps 
to ensure there was no adverse data recorded.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that the compensation offered of £850 is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. If this had been an issue that had arisen for a single 
month, I would have awarded compensation of £50 for a customer having to make a manual 
payment that month. Given this, Im satisfied that £850 is fair compensation for the errors 
that occurred over an 11-month period.
Putting things right
I direct National Westminster Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank to pay Mr and Mrs B total 
compensation of £850 (to include any amount already paid) in full and final settlement of this 
complaint. I make no other order or award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order National Westminster Bank Plc 
trading as Ulster Bank to settle the complaint as set out above. I make no other order or 
award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman