DRN-3842771
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds (Tesco) handling of a claim for storm 
damage under her buildings insurance policy.
Mrs W is represented by Ms W, so for ease Ill refer to Ms W. Any references to Tesco 
include its agents. 
What happened
In February 2022, Mrs W says her home experienced storm damage. Mrs W was left unable 
to access the outside of her house due to fallen trees causing damage to phone lines, render 
on the external brickwork, the driveway, and the boundary between Mrs Ws home and her 
neighbour. Ms W contacted Tesco on Mrs Ws behalf to make a claim.
Tesco settled the parts of the claim about the fallen tree and repaired the render. Ms W says 
there were mixed messages about what would happen with the repair to the drive. Ms W 
initially was asked to get a quote for the repair and was then told Tesco wanted to send 
someone out to inspect the damage. This happened in April and Ms W says in July they 
were told the damage to the drive would not be covered. This was because Tesco felt the 
damage was caused by wear and tear.  
Unhappy with this, Ms W complained. Tesco issued its final response July 2022, saying it 
maintained the decision not to cover the damage to the driveway. It said the driveway had 
deteriorated over time and therefore wasnt covered. Tesco acknowledged it should have 
arranged for its contractor to inspect other areas of damage too and apologised for this.
Ms W referred the complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators 
who said she thought it likely a tree of the size that fell would cause some damage to the 
driveway, so Tesco should make a payment for the damaged driveway directly under where 
the tree fell. She also recommended compensation of £300 to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the handling of the claim. As Tesco didnt agree, this matter has 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At this point I think its helpful to clarify that Ive only considered the information on the file 
dated up to the date of the first final response. I understand a second complaint has been 
made, and if Mrs W remains unhappy with Tescos response, she can refer the second 
complaint to this service for consideration. And as the only outstanding issue in the first 
complaint is the driveway, Ive focused my decision on this. 
The Driveway
As Tesco accepted the claim for damage to the house, hedge, and rockery, its been 
confirmed the only issue in this complaint is the damage to the driveway. Ms W says the 
driveway was damaged when the tree fell on it. Tesco appears to acknowledge there is 
damage to the driveway but says this is caused by wear and tear.
When considering a storm claim, wed start by considering three questions, and for ease Ive 
set these out below:
1. Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
2.   Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.   Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
Its accepted storm conditions occurred when the damage happened, and damage caused 
by a falling tree can be consistent with damage caused by storm conditions. So, the answer 
to the two first two questions is yes. The issue here is whether or not the storm conditions 
were caused by the damage to the driveway. 
The report from July 2022 carried out for Tesco said of the driveway damage was as a result 
of wear and tear, and the damage is not consistent with a falling tree. And I appreciate when 
the claim was initially logged, the original images taken by Ms W were done so from a 
distance. This was because health and safety reasons meant she wasnt able to get much 
closer. As a result, some of the photos dont clearly show the impact of the tree falling on the 
driveway as we might otherwise have seen.
However, as our investigator noted, theres an inconsistency between the photos taken by 
Ms W in February and those taken by the surveyor in April 2022. These photos indicate 
there was some damage to driveway. But I accept the arguments put forward by Tesco the 
evidence provided doesnt support the suggestion all the damage to the driveway was 
caused by the falling tree. 
My role here is to decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. I need to weigh up 
the information thats provided and where this is incomplete, or contradictory, I need to 
decide on the balance of probabilities, what I think is more likely to have happened. Having 
considered all the information, I think it is more likely than not the tree caused some damage 
to the driveway when the storm conditions caused it to fall. But Im not persuaded it caused 
all the damage. I say this because from the photographs provided, its clear the tree only fell 
over a section of the driveway, and the photographs provided by both Ms W and Tesco 
indicate there are other areas with damage.
With this in mind, Im going to require Tesco to make a monetary payment to Mrs W to cover 
the cost of repairing the damage to the driveway directly beneath where the tree fell. The 
payment should be based on the invoice for repairing the driveway sent by Ms W.  
 
Ill turn now to the payment recommended by the investigator for the distress and 
inconvenience experienced by Mrs W during the claim. Ms W tells us shes been the key 
point of contact for this case as her grandmother is elderly and, having been provided with 
some conflicting information in the early stages of the claim, felt she needed support with the 
claim. I can see the wider circumstances that led to Mrs W making the claim could have 
been worrying, so Ive considered how Tescos actions have added to this for Mrs W. 
Tesco hasnt refuted Ms Ws claim it wrongly told Mrs W she wasnt covered for storm 
damage when the policy documents show she was. Tesco also acknowledged in the final 
response letter issued in July 2022 it didnt handle the inspection properly and contractor 
didnt assess all damage when they first had the opportunity to do so, and this lengthened the time taken to resolve the claim. I think this would have been really worrying for Mrs W, 
along with the lack of contact between Tesco and Ms W, when its shown Ms W was 
frequently contacting Tesco to try and get an update on the claim. 
I appreciate there were areas of damage that were addressed fairly quickly. But I agree with 
the conclusion our investigator reached in that there were others that took longer. Tesco 
acknowledged the inspection of the property should have happened in a way that all damage 
was assessed together. In the circumstances, Im satisfied £300 compensation is 
appropriate here to consider the distress and inconvenience Mrs W experienced. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to:
- Make a monetary payment for the cost of repairing the damage to the driveway 
directly below where the tree fell. 
- Pay Mrs W £300 for the distress and inconvenience experienced.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman