DRN-3994781
The complaint
Mr M complains that more 2 Life Ltd has unfairly declined his request for a further advance 
on his lifetime mortgage. He says that when he took the lifetime mortgage out with the 
original lender, further borrowing was an available feature but that since more2life has taken 
over the loan  it is unfairly declining to consider his request.
What happened
Mr M has a lifetime mortgage for £300,000  originally taken out with Northern Rock in 
around 2003. Since then, the loan has been taken over by more2life.
Recently, Mr M has asked for a further advance of £100,000 but has been told this was not 
possible. more2life explained that it does not offer further lending on the product that Mr M 
has as it only took over the administration of the loan in 2018 and  as Northern Rock no 
longer offer lifetime mortgages  it is unable to process an application for lending on Mr Ms 
existing plan. 
more2life suggested that Mr M apply to take out a new equity release plan with them  but 
this would incur fees and charges to exit his existing agreement and arrange a new one. And 
because more2life have a first charge over the property  Mr M has said hes been unable to 
get the £100,000 borrowing from another lender. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He said that the agreement 
didnt come with a guaranteed drawdown option and that, as a result, further borrowing didnt 
need to be provided.
Mr M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
After careful consideration, I reached a different conclusion to the investigator. So I issued a 
provisional decision setting out my thoughts. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did this lifetime mortgage allow for further advances?
Due to the passage of time since this lifetime mortgage was taken out, not all of the 
information is available. more2life has told our investigator that it has provided all the 
relevant information and documentation it holds on file since it took over the loan in 
2018. 
Ive considered this carefully  as well as the information Mr M has provided and his 
recollections from the time when he initially took the lifetime mortgage out. 
Mr M has said that, although Northern Rock has not expressed the point in writing, it 
was made clear to him at the time he took the lifetime mortgage out that he would be 
able to apply for additional borrowing. And that this would be available  subject to 
certain criteria such as his age and property value.
Unfortunately, Ive not seen a copy of the terms and conditions that came with the 
mortgage and neither party has been able to provide this. 
But Ive considered the mortgage offer Mr M has provided from 2003 and, whilst Ive 
not seen specific mention of further advances, I think it is likely that this lifetime 
mortgage enabled Mr M to apply for them. I say this as Mr M has made it clear that 
further advances were important to him when he took the product out and I think that 
informed his choice when selecting a lifetime mortgage product. Ive also kept in 
mind that he has been able to extend his borrowing twice since taking the lifetime 
mortgage out  which further implies that this was a feature. 
Has this changed since?
more2life has explained that when it took over the loan  it only took on the 
administration of the loan and that, as Northern Rock were no longer conducting 
lifetime mortgage business, it is not able to process an application for further lending 
on his current plan. 
Ive considered the available paperwork from the time that it was taken over. In a 
letter dated 27 June 2018 from the previous loan owner, Papilio, to confirm the 
transfer there is the following wording: 
the transfer of your mortgage account has been carried out in accordance 
with the terms of your mortgage. There will be no change to the current terms 
and conditions and more 2 life limited will be responsible for setting interest 
rates and charges on your mortgage account after the ownership has 
changed.
This suggests to me that the mortgage was transferred to more2life in its entirety and 
not just for administrative purposes. And in doing so, accepted any features  as well 
as liability of the loan. more2life is the legal owner of this loan  it is Mr Ms lender, 
and owes him the obligations of fairness which come with that.
This was followed by a letter from more2life which explained that the mortgage had 
been transferred to it and they are an award-winning equity release provider and 
retirement specialist. This letter further confirmed that there were no changes to the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage as a result of the transfer. 
And Ive noted from other documentation that more2life has provided that everything 
about your equity release will remain the same. The only changes to the mortgage 
suggested is the fee tariff and some branding now that it has changed ownership. 
There is not mention of a change to any other terms or removal of any features.
Ive also noted in these documents that it is stated that borrowers would always be 
given notice in writing of any changes to the lifetime mortgage. From the information 
Ive seen  I cant see that Mr M was given any notice that he might not be able to 
request additional borrowing on his lifetime mortgage as a result of the change in 
ownership.And so on this basis, I currently dont consider that more2life has treated Mr M fairly 
when it refused to consider his request for additional borrowing on his lifetime 
mortgage. 
Here, Im not saying that further advances are guaranteed, as Ive mentioned these 
would be subject to certain criteria such as Mr Ms age and the value of the property. 
But I dont consider it fair for more2life to simply refuse to consider a request for a 
further advance for the reasons it has provided. 
I say this as more2life is an active lender and has offered for Mr M to redeem his 
mortgage and take out a new one with it. But it doesnt seem fair to me that  simply 
because Mr Ms mortgage was brought by more2life - rather that it originating with it 
 he should have to lose out by paying the additional fees required to do this (other 
than on the additional borrowing which he would have to do anyway). 
Putting things right
With the above in mind, I think a fair resolution would be for more2life to consider Mr 
Ms application for a further advance as if he was a more2life customer rather than a 
Heritage Choice customer. I dont consider it reasonable for him to have to exit his 
existing mortgage contract and apply for a new one  incurring the associated fees  
just because his mortgage was passed from a different lender. This would not be 
required if his loan had originated with more2life. In both scenarios he is a more2life 
customer and so I think it only fair that he should be treated in the same way 
regardless of where his mortgage originated. 
If the application is successful, I think his mortgage should be moved to the current 
product range  waiving any fees  and for the further advance to be taken on those 
terms. 
But if for some reason this is not possible  more2life should provide the reasons for 
this to this service within two weeks of the date of this decision. It should also detail 
the interest rate applicable to the mortgage and further advance, as well as any 
associated cost and fees. 
Having considered all of the factors in this case, Im currently minded to say that, in 
addition to more2life considering Mr Ms application as if he were a customer 
applying on its active book of mortgages, it should also pay Mr M £500 in recognition 
of the loss of expectation and inconvenience that he suffered when he was told he 
was unable to apply for a further advance on his lifetime mortgage. 
Having considered all of the available information and circumstances, I currently think 
this is fair.
Further developments
Mr M let this service know that, as he was not able to take out additional borrowing, 
he sold his property. And so it was not possible to put things right in the way I set out 
in my provisional decision. I reconsidered this and set out that I thought more2life 
should pay Mr M £750 in compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience this matter caused.
Responses to my proposed outcomeMr M responded and accepted this.
more2life responded. It said that Mr M had been advised on numerous occasions between 
2019 to 2021 that no further borrowing was available on his existing plan and the reasons for 
this and that he should consult with an adviser to discuss this. 
It also said that Mr M would not have been charged an early repayment charge (ERC) for 
moving to another product should his adviser deem it to be the best course of action. But he 
would have needed to pay for advice and solicitors fees  which it says he would have 
incurred anyway, had he been able to take out additional borrowing as this required advice. 
It said that as Mr M didnt proceed with a re-mortgage, it was ultimately his decision to sell 
his property. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive though carefully about more2lifes response and reconsidered my provisional decision in 
light of this. 
Having done so, I still dont think that Mr M was treated fairly. Whilst I accept that he may 
have been informed at an earlier stage that further borrowing on his plan was not possible  
I still dont consider it fair that this was the case. As I set out in my provisional decision, I 
think it likely that further borrowing was a feature of Mr Ms original mortgage and as 
more2life took over legal ownership of the loan, it is also acting as the funder and therefore 
has the regulatory obligations to act fairly. 
Whilst Ive noted more2lifes comments that Mr M could have re-mortgaged and that the 
ERC would be waived if the adviser thought this was the best course of action  I still think 
this presented a hurdle for Mr M to overcome. And Im not persuaded, from the information 
Ive seen, that it was made clear to Mr M that any ERC would be waived. 
And Ive also kept in mind that the arrangement of - and interest charged - on any new 
lifetime mortgage could be on less favourable terms than the plan that Mr M had. 
And so for these reasons, and those outlined in my provisional decision  I still think this 
complaint should be upheld and that £750 is fair compensation in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr M. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
more2life Ltd to pay Mr M £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman