DRN-4020248
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the service Nationwide Building Society provided to Mr W 
when he used the Current Account Switch Service (CASS).
The account involved in this complaint is held in joint names, but as the service was 
provided to Mr W, I will refer to Mr W throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr W attempted to switch an account  held jointly with Mrs W, using the CASS on                    
27 November 2022. But during the on-line application Mr W says the system timed out 
leaving him unsure as to whether the application had been submitted or not.
He tried to call Nationwide to establish if the application had been received, but found the 
relevant department was closed. He called back the next day and was eventually told he 
needed to resubmit the application as the original application had not been received. Mr W 
also says that when Nationwide received his application it didnt meet the required CASS 
timescales. 
Nationwide said that it had been unable to find any technical error as to why Mr Ws first 
application wasnt received. It also noted that the first call Mr W made about this was at 
10.13pm on 27 November 2022. It confirmed that an application was received the following 
day. But it added that the application was subject to normal account opening security checks 
and that the CASS timescales start when the security checks are complete. Nationwide 
confirmed the account switch completed 9 December 2022. So, it didnt uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.
Mr W subsequently complained that Nationwide didnt deal with his complaint properly as he 
didnt receive an email copy of the final response letter (FRL). But Nationwide said that the 
FRL was sent to one of Mr W email addresses as agreed in a telephone call when the 
complaint was discussed.   
Unhappy with Nationwides responses, Mr W referred his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into it, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt find that 
Nationwide had made any mistakes leading to Mr Ws application being delayed. Mr W didnt 
accept this outcome and he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. I acknowledge 
Mr W will be disappointed, so I will explain why.
Mr W says his application timed out and that this caused him inconvenience. Nationwide has 
provided evidence to show that it made appropriate enquiries with its IT department. And Ive 
seen that these enquiries determined that there wasnt a technical problem at Nationwides 
end. In the absence of any other evidence, I cant be certain what the underlying problem 
was. But Im persuaded its most likely that the problem Mr W experienced arose from a 
connectivity issue. 
I understand that Mr W tried to call Nationwide to check receipt of his application. From what 
Ive seen, Mr Ws call was made after 10pm. As this was a late evening call, I dont find it 
unusual that Nationwides department was closed at this time in the evening.  
I understand these issues would have been frustrating for Mr W. But we're all 
inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and a certain level of frustration and minor 
annoyance is expected. So, for me to make an award I'd need to see that the impact of a 
mistake was more than most people would expect to experience as part of everyday 
life. And I dont find that is the case here. 
Ive gone on to consider Mr Ws concerns about the CASS timescales. And I think it would 
be helpful to explain at this point that Nationwide signed up to the CASS, along with other 
participating UK banks and building societies to help customers switch accounts. But the 
actual service is managed and overseen by a third-party. 
And on the CASS website, under the FAQ section the switching process, it explains that 
account opening and account switching are not part of the same process. It explains that the 
new bank or building society has to carry out know your customer security checks as part of 
the account opening process. And that only once these are completed, the date of the switch 
can be set.
Ive seen that this is reflected in Nationwides CASS literature which says Once your 
account has been opened and weve checked its up and running (this usually takes 3 
working days), the Current Account Switch Service then allows you to switch your current 
account to us in 7 working days. 
Mr W completed his application on 28 November 2022, and the account switch completed 
on 9 December 2022. Allowing the three working days for the application checks Nationwide 
needed to do, Im satisfied that Mr Ws switch was completed within required seven working 
days timescale. So, I dont find that Nationwide made a mistake here.  
  
Mr W says Nationwide didnt email him a copy of the final response letter about his 
complaint. But Ive seen that the final response letter was emailed to one of Mr Ws email 
addresses on 1 December 2022. Its possible that the email went into Mr Ws spam emails, 
and I accept he may not have seen it straight away. But from what Ive seen it seems Mr W 
did get the FRL, and any delay has not prevented him from referring the complaint to this 
service.
Overall, while I understand Mr W experienced some frustration with the account switch 
process, for the above reasons I dont find that Nationwide did anything wrong to the extent 
that compensation is warranted.        
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman