DRN-3893239
The complaint
Mrs F  as executor of the late Mrs Gs estate, complains that National Westminster Bank 
Plc (NatWest) delayed Mrs Gs request to transfer funds to an investment company.
What happened
Prior to her passing Mrs G sold her house. On 30 June 2021 she called NatWest to request 
that they make a payment of just over £550,000 to an investment company. The call handler 
told Mrs G that she needed to go into a branch to make this payment as it wasnt something 
they could authorise over the phone. Mrs G told the call handler that she was housebound 
and wasnt able to attend a branch. The call handler insisted that this payment wasnt 
something she could complete over the phone, and that Mrs G either needed to attend a 
branch or send a letter of authorisation to the bank by fax.
On 1 July 2021, on her mothers behalf, Mrs F called NatWests vulnerable customer team to 
discuss the payment. Mrs F explained that she held a Power of Attorney (POA) for her 
mother who was housebound and on oxygen due to ill-health. She added that her mother 
wasnt physically able to attend a branch to make the payment and they didnt have access 
to a fax machine. The vulnerable customer team understood the position and said they could 
authorise the payment, but it would still be subject to security checks.
Mrs F then contacted the premier banking team and ultimately the payment was made on    
8 July 2021. Mrs F raised a complaint with NatWest on behalf of her mother. She said:
NatWest had unduly delayed the payment being made.
Mrs G felt shed been discriminated against based on disability. If Mrs G had been 
able to attend the payment wouldve been processed the same day.
She had to call NatWest multiple times for updates, was given incorrect information.
Her mothers health had been impacted, and the money was unnecessarily left in her 
mothers account, leaving her in a financially vulnerable position.
NatWest responded to Mrs Fs complaint. They said theyd followed the right process in 
making further security checks, as they have a duty of care to protect their customers from 
potential fraud. As a gesture of goodwill NatWest refunded the CHAPS payment fee of £20.
Unhappy with NatWests final response Mrs F referred the complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into Mrs Fs concerns, and she asked NatWest to pay £200 
compensation in addition to the refund of the payment fee. NatWest accepted the 
investigators recommendation, but Mrs F remained unhappy. She said £200 didnt recognise 
the level of distress caused. 
So, the complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision.
What I said in my provisional decision dated 19 December 2022
Firstly, Id like to express my condolences to Mrs F on the loss of her mother as she passed 
away during the course of this complaint.
Transfer request
Ive listened to the call Mrs G had with NatWest on 30 June 2021. Im satisfied NatWest 
were correct in saying that this payment instruction wouldnt normally be processed over the 
phone due to the telephone transfer payment limits for the type of account Mrs G had. 
However, its clear Mrs G explained to the call handler that she was housebound and unable 
to get to a branch or fax a written instruction.
On becoming aware of the late Mrs Gs vulnerabilities, I wouldve expected the call handler 
to have acted in line with NatWests vulnerable consumer policy (which NatWest have given 
me a copy of). This states that on identifying that a customer has a vulnerability, that it 
should establish what support they require and document this in order to minimise their 
susceptibility to detriment.
NatWest havent disputed the fact that they should have supported Mrs G better from the 
moment she made them aware of her vulnerabilities. Following the call NatWest had with 
Mrs F about the payment, they then noted Mrs Gs ill health and gave her a premier banking 
portfolio which allowed higher telephone payment limits.
In recognition of the trouble Mrs G had to go to for NatWest to recognise her vulnerabilities, 
and the upset of being told shed have to go to a branch when she was house bound, 
theyve offered £200 compensation in addition to a refund of the £20 payment fee. I 
understand Mrs F doesnt think this amount will have any impact on NatWest. So, I think it 
would be helpful if I explain that our role is to consider if Mrs G suffered a financial loss 
and/or material distress and inconvenience. Its not our role to punish NatWest  we arent 
the regulator.
Having thought about this matter, while the transfer request was delayed, the issue was 
resolved in around a week. So, Im satisfied that £200 fairly recognises the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I do understand that Mrs F also contacted NatWest on Mrs Gs 
behalf, but we can only award compensation to the eligible complaint  in this case, Mrs G 
and now her estate. So, I wont be asking NatWest to pay any further compensation in 
relation to this complaint point.
Discrimination
Mrs F says that NatWest discriminated against her mother on the grounds of her disability 
and left her financially vulnerable causing stress and worry which impacted her ill health. Its 
not our role to consider if NatWest breached the Equality Act 2010  thats a matter for the 
courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
In order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including 
relevant law and what we consider to be good industry practice at the time. So, although its 
for the Courts to say whether or not NatWest has breached the Equality Act 2010, were 
required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other things 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that Mrs G was treated unfairly by NatWest. NatWest
have a duty of care to protect all customers. I appreciate that the late Mrs G wasnt able to 
go to a branch to make the payment or fax her instruction over to the bank. But upon being
notified of Mrs Gs health and disability, NatWest act reasonably in accepting her request for
the payment to be made over the phone, by giving her a premier banking profile, even 
though it was a day later than her original request.And the additional security checks NatWest completed were in line with the account terms 
and conditions and applied to all customers with the type of account Mrs G held, and the 
size of the transaction she wanted to make.
Therefore, Im persuaded that NatWest treated Mrs G fairly and reasonably considering he 
disability, and in line with any other customer in the same circumstances. So, I wont be 
asking NatWest to do anything further in relation to this aspect of the complaint.
Delays in processing the payment
Mrs F says the payment request made by her mother was delayed by 10-13 days. And when 
she called NatWest for updates, she was told incorrect information and given the impression 
that the payment would be paid sooner than it was. I thought it would be helpful to set out a 
timeline of the processing of the payment.
30 June  Mrs G calls NatWest to request the transfer of funds.
1 July  Mrs F calls in Mrs G presence to request the transfer again. Mrs F is told the 
payment would be made by the next day subject to further security checks.
2 July  NatWest send the payment for further security checks. The security team 
then request further information from the processing team.
3 July  Saturday, non-processing day.
4 July - Sunday, non-processing day.
5 July  Further information requested sent to the security team.
8 July  The payment was processed and sent to the investment company as 
instructed by Mrs G.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions in relation to payment requests. These state 
that In limited circumstances (for example, if they suspect fraud), the payment may take 
longer to reach the payees account. It also says theyll follow payment instructions unless: 
we reasonably believe you didnt authorise the instruction, we reasonably suspect the 
instruction is fraudulent.
Considering the large amount that Mrs G wanted to transfer, and that she was a vulnerable 
customer, Im satisfied it was reasonable for NatWest to take extra steps to make sure the 
payment was genuine. Therefore, Im satisfied that this transfer instruction wouldve taken 
longer than usual. However, Im persuaded that there were some unnecessary delays.
Mrs F says that Mrs G lost just under £50 a day interest while the money was being held by 
NatWest. From setting out the above, I think the payment has been unnecessarily delayed 
by four days as follows:
Day 1  The payment was delayed by one day as initial instruction made by the late 
Mrs G on 30/06/2021 wasnt accepted until the next day when Mrs F called.
Day 2  The payment processing team didnt submit the payment for further security 
checks until the next day.
Day 3 and 4  The security team have all information needed to make the payment 
on 5th July, so I wouldve expected the payment to have been made that day.
Im persuaded that the late Mrs G has lost out financially as a result of her payment 
instruction being delayed unnecessarily. To put this right, NatWest should pay the estate of 
the late Mrs G, an additional £200 for the four days lost interest as set out above. This is in 
addition to the distress and inconvenience award mentioned above.
And I said I had provisionally decided  subject to further comments, that NatWest should 
pay the estate of the late Mrs G:£200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused; and
£200 for the lost interest plus 8% simple interest for the delays in processing a bank 
transfer.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to send any additional comments or evidence they had before reaching 
a final decision. Barclaycard responded to say it didnt have anything further to add and that 
theyd be happy to resolve the complaint in the way I recommended in my provisional 
decision.
Mrs F responded and made further comments about the poor and unsympathetic service 
Mrs G had received from NatWest considering her vulnerabilities. She also made further 
comments on the conflicting information given to Mrs F several occasions when she called 
NatWest to establish why the transfer hadnt been made. And that the payment was delayed 
after the security checks had been completed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about what Mrs F has said in response to my provisional decision, Im 
satisfied the service both her and her late mother received from NatWest have been 
considered in my provisional decision. Im satisfied that £200 fairly recognises the distress 
and inconvenience caused, and as explained in my provisional decision, we can only award 
compensation to the eligible complaint  in this case, Mrs G and now her estate. 
Im also satisfied that the delay in transfer the funds was also addressed in my provisional 
decision. Im satisfied that £200 plus 8% interest fairly represents the financial loss caused 
because of the delay.
So, I want to thank Mrs F for her further comments, but ultimately this doesnt change my 
decision. 
Putting things right
National Westminster Bank Plc should now pay the estate of the late Mrs G:
£200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused; and
£200 for the lost interest plus 8% simple interest for the delays in processing a bank 
transfer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
National Westminster Bank Plc should now settle the matter as set out above. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of the late Mrs G 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman