DRN-2698739
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited recorded two claims against his motor 
insurance policy after a named driver on his policy was involved in an accident. 
What happened
Mr R holds a motor insurance policy with Aviva. Mr R claimed on his policy, after his son, 
who is a named driver on his policy was involved in an accident. Mr R said his son bumped 
into the car behind him while reversing into a parking space. In his panic he then hit the car 
in front when pulling forward.
Aviva said this would be recorded as two claims because Mr Rs son had stopped and 
changed gear between hitting the first car and the second. Because of this, it said the 
second incident wasnt a continuation of the first and so there were two separate incidents, 
meaning it needed to record two separate claims. Aviva said it was also dealing with two 
separate third-party claims due to the damage Mr Rs son had caused to the other cars. As 
Aviva had recorded two separate claims, it charged Mr R two excesses. 
Mr R didnt think the accident should be recorded as two claims, or that he should pay two 
excesses, as it all happened within a short space of time. So, he brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
thought Aviva had acted fairly in recording the accident as two claims and charging two 
excesses, because there were two separate manoeuvres.  
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy defines as excess as The amount you must pay towards any claim. Ive 
therefore thought about whether its fair and reasonable for Aviva to have recorded the 
accident as two separate claims and charged two excesses. Having done so, I think Aviva 
has acted fairly and reasonably, Ill explain why. 
It doesnt seem to be disputed that Mr Rs son firstly hit one car while reversing and then hit 
a second when pulling forward. This would mean that, after hitting the first car, he needed to 
finish the reversing manoeuvre and change gear, in order to drive forwards. I find it 
reasonable that Aviva therefore said this is two separate manoeuvres and incidents, rather 
than the second being a continuation of the first. 
Ive also seen a report showing the repairs that were carried out on Mr Rs car. As separate 
areas were damaged when hitting the cars, this  along with there being two separate 
manoeuvres - indicates that there were two separate incidents. 
I appreciate that Mr Rs son panicked after hitting the first car which led to him very quickly 
hitting the second. However, I dont think hitting the second car was an unavoidable result of 
hitting the first, or a continuation of the manoeuvre. So, in this particular case Im not going 
to interfere with Avivas decision to record this as two claims. As this is recorded as two 
claims, I think its fair for Aviva to charge two excesses in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy. 
I appreciate my decision isnt the outcome Mr R was hoping for, but Im not going to require 
Aviva to do anything differently. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman