DRN-3300075
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc refused to cancel a payment holiday on his mortgage 
which had been put in place without his consent.
What happened
Mr R took out a mortgage with Santander with his ex-wife in 2017. He says that he left the 
property in May 2018 and agreed with his ex-wife that she would pay the mortgage going 
forward, until the property was sold.
Mr Rs ex-wife applied online to Santander for a coronavirus payment holiday in 2020. And 
Santander put in place a payment holiday for May  July 2020.
Mr R complained to Santander. He said in particular that hed previously asked Santander to 
mark the account to show that there was a matrimonial dispute. And he said hed been told 
that it would not be possible for a payment holiday to be registered without his consent. He 
asked Santander to cancel the payment holiday to ensure that his ex-partner continued to 
make the monthly repayments.
Santander responded and said:
It didnt agree that anyone had informed Mr R that it would be able to prevent a 
payment holiday being requested using the online facility;
As part of the online request the person requesting the payment holiday had stated 
that they were acting with the authority of both borrowers;
Its systems were not sophisticated enough to record and recognise where details of a 
dispute between borrowers have been registered, and these details would only have 
been apparent to an adviser if the payment holiday was being requested over the 
telephone;
Santander wasnt able to cancel the payment holiday and it would stand for the 
agreed period;
The fact that Mr Rs ex-wife had proceeded by making an incorrect statement was a 
civil matter between her and Mr R.
Mr R didnt agree with Santanders response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt that Santander had dealt fairly with Mr Rs complaint. But Mr R doesnt 
agree, and so his complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments Ive not been 
persuaded to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment for Mr R so Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
When our investigator issued her view on Mr Rs complaint she explained that part of his 
complaint was out of time. For the avoidance of doubt, my decision deals only with that part 
of Mr Rs complaint that she found to be in time.
Mr Rs ex-wife applied for a payment holiday in 2020. At the time, the Financial Conduct 
Authority had put in place guidance in relation to the coronavirus pandemic. This said that 
businesses should accept payment holidays where they were requested without checking to 
ensure that there was financial difficulty. 
Santander has also explained that its online processes were not able to distinguish cases 
where a dispute between the parties had been registered. And it has confirmed that, as part 
of the online process, Mr Rs ex-wife would need to have confirmed that she was in financial 
difficulty and that she had the consent of the other party to make the application.
Mr R says that he was initially told that Santander could reverse the payment holiday, and 
then subsequently told that it couldnt do so. But, although Ive considered what Mr R has to 
say, Im not persuaded that Santander acted unreasonably by not cancelling the payment 
holiday. I say this as Mr R and his ex-wife are jointly and severally liable for the mortgage. 
And, if Santander had reversed the payment holiday, this wouldnt automatically have meant 
that Mr Rs ex-wife would have started making payments again. Further arrears could have 
accrued on the mortgage and this would have negatively impacted both Mr R and his ex-
wife.
I appreciate that Mr R is also unhappy that he later spoke to Santander about a further 
payment holiday but was told that it couldnt agree this without his ex-wifes consent. And I 
can see why he feels this to be unfair. But Santander was aware that Mr R wasnt resident at 
the property and didnt pay the mortgage. So Im not persuaded that Santander acted 
unreasonably by not agreeing to put in place a further payment holiday when it knew that 
Mr Rs ex-wife hadnt consented to this.  
As Im not persuaded that Santander has acted unreasonably I dont require it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman