DRN-1227241
 
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a 
claims management company. 
What happened 
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1995. The policy was added to 
Mrs Ps credit card account when she applied for the card by post. The policy covered her 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs P disagreed. 
Her representative said, on her behalf and in summary, that:
Mrs P would have received generous sick pay from her employer and she had 
savings.
The PPI was the lowest quality scheme.
If the costs and benefits and the optional nature of the policy had been made clear, 
Mrs P would not have taken it.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs P's complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs P's complaint because:
The postal application form included a separate section headed "Payment Protection 
Plan". There were equally clear options to accept or decline the PPI and Mrs P ticked the 
Yes box to show that she wanted it.  So, overall, I think Barclaycard made Mrs P aware 
that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it.
Barclaycard didnt advise Mrs P to take the policy so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. But it did need to provide enough clear information for Mr P to decide for herself if 
the policy was suitable for her circumstances. She's said she would have received generous 
sick pay from her employer  six months full pay followed by six months half pay. But the 
policy would have paid out for up to 12 months in addition. And it covered her if shed 
become unemployed. So I think the policy could have been a useful benefit to her, despite 
her existing arrangements.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mrs P chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely  despite what she 
says now  that Mrs P would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because: 
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because Barclaycard didnt 
tell Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, does have to pay back to Mrs P any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman