DRN-4072429
The complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked his account for 10 days. He thinks 
they have discriminated against him. He would like compensation for the distress caused.
What happened
Mr F had an account with Nationwide. 
In June 2022 the account was blocked for 10 days. Mr F was told this was due to suspicious 
activity. He was asked to attend branch in order to make any withdrawals and would need to 
provide ID and proof of entitlement.
Mr F attended branch on 15 June 2022. He wasnt able to be seen in branch due to delays. 
He was later phoned by staff who asked him questions about his withdrawals and deposits. 
Mr F said some of the questions were too intrusive and he declined to answer.
Mr F tried to take money out of his account on17 June 2022, but he was referred back to 
branch.
Mr F attended branch with ID and provided the requested information on 24 June 2022. His 
account was unblocked. 
Mr F was unable to access the funds in his account for ten days. He told us he was worried, 
and it caused him sleepless nights.
Nationwide provided a response to the complaint, they said Nationwide hadnt made any 
errors as they were carrying out an investigation. They needed the information requested in 
order to protect Mr Fs account.
Mr F came to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought 
Nationwide hadnt been unfair when they blocked Mr Fs account and asked him for 
information. And once Mr F had provided the necessary information the account had been 
unblocked. The investigator considered Mr Fs allegations that Nationwide had discriminated 
against him because of his race or ethnic origin. However, he said he hadnt seen any 
evidence of this.
Mr F was unhappy with the view. He said Nationwide had lifted the restrictions without 
asking him further questions and without him providing answers to the original questions. He 
said he had been treated badly by Nationwide and that only when he had come into branch 
with his former support worker who is white, was he treated differently. He asked that we 
listen to the calls he had with different staff at Nationwide. He was concerned hed been told 
his card had GPS tracking. He said he hadnt presented any ID in branch, and he had been 
allowed to access his account.
Our investigator reviewed the calls  He was satisfied that Nationwide had acted fairly in 
requesting the information they did. He found no evidence that Mr F had been told his card 
had GPS tracking.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has made a number of detailed submissions. Ive considered all of these, but I dont 
believe its necessary for me to address each and every point that Mr F has made in order to 
meet my statutory duty to determine his complaint. Im required to do that with minimum 
formality, and so Ill address the issues that I consider to be the most important. I do stress 
however that Ive considered everything that Mr F and Nationwide have said before reaching 
my decision. 
Review and block of the account
Financial businesses, like Nationwide, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean they have to monitor their customers accounts and may need to 
review an account at any time. While that is happening, they may need to block or restrict 
any payments.
This is reflected in Nationwides terms and conditions. These say Nationwide can block an 
account or card to protect its customer from fraud and to meet its legal obligations. 
Nationwide can also request additional identification. 
Im satisfied that is what it was doing when it reviewed Mr Fs accounts. So, I dont think it 
has done anything wrong.
Mr F was required to provide information to Nationwide. I have already said that Nationwide 
is entitled to request this information in order to comply with its legal and regulatory 
obligations, so I dont think its acted unfairly in requesting the information it did.
Mr F has said that his account was unblocked without the need of him showing his ID 
despite Nationwide requesting it previously. I have looked at the evidence on file in particular 
the account notes from Nationwide and the letter outlining the complaint dated 1 July 2022 
that Mr F sent to us. Both documents refer to Mr F providing his photographic ID in branch. 
So, I think Mr F must have misremembered what happened in branch.  Im satisfied Mr F did 
provide his photo ID in branch and this contributed to his account being unblocked. 
Mr F has said that he has been discriminated against by staff at Nationwide on the basis of 
his race. In particular he is aggrieved that staff in branch were happy to speak to his support 
worker who is white when they werent willing to speak to him. And that it was her 
intervention that caused the account to be unblocked. 
While I can appreciate this is his perspective, it is not my role to decide whether 
discrimination has taken place  only the courts have the power to decide this. I have, 
however, considered the relevant law in relation to what Mr F has said when deciding what I 
think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering the provisions of 
The Equality Act 2010 (The Act). And after looking at all the evidence, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that this was the case. 
Looking at the information on file and in particular the account notes and the letter in which 
Mr F outlined the complaint, I can see that it was Mr F providing his ID and clarification about 
his payments in branch that lead to the unblocking of the account. I have also received information that Mr Fs support worker also provided their ID. From the information I have, I 
cant see any evidence that Mr F has been discriminated against by Nationwide, I dont think 
they have acted for an improper reason, so I wont be awarding any compensation for this.
Mr F has also mentioned that he was told by staff at Nationwide that his card had GPS 
tracking on it. Mr F is very insistent that he was told this. I have listened to the calls, and I 
can confirm that GPS tracking wasnt mentioned to Mr F. I would like to reassure Mr F that 
GPS tracking isnt something that I would expect to be included in bank cards. 
In summary I have considered Mr Fs and Nationwides submissions, I have listened to the 
calls between Mr F and Nationwide staff. Having done so Im satisfied that Mr F wasnt 
treated unfairly when his account was blocked following a review. Im satisfied no delay took 
place.  Ive seen no evidence that Mr F was discriminated against because of his race. And I 
am satisfied GPS wasnt mentioned to Mr F in any phone call. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman