DRN-3768298
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains about the actions of Barclays Bank Plc when it fell victim to 
what it says was an investment scam.
Bs complaint is brought by its director  Mr B. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In August 2020 Mr B transferred £50,000 from Bs bank account with H to an account held 
with Barclays to fund a foreign exchange trading investment opportunity with a firm Ill refer 
to as E. Mr B says he had previously invested through E and the sum hed invested along 
with the profit made had recently been returned (a week earlier), so he did not have any 
concerns about the legitimacy of the opportunity. Not long after, Es website disappeared. 
Mr B says he immediately reported what had happened to H, who contacted Barclays, but 
no funds remained. He also contacted Barclays himself and reported the incident to 
Action Fraud. 
Barclays said it couldnt discuss the dispute with Mr B but will liaise and co-operate with H, 
and directed him back to H. 
Ultimately, Mr B referred Bs complaint to our service. Our Investigator thought there were 
limits as to how much of Bs complaint we could consider. And for what we could, she didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed. He asked for the complaint to be 
reconsidered by an Ombudsman. 
When Bs complaint was passed to me, I could see in response to our Investigators 
outcome Mr B had shared some information which hed managed to obtain from H about its 
interaction with Barclays. Mr B thought this was pertinent to the case. I could also see how 
strongly Mr B felt, and how much trying to recover Bs loss meant to him. So I spoke to Mr B 
to explain in more detail the reasons why I couldnt consider all of the complaint, or ask 
Barclays to do more (for that which I could consider). Mr B asked I share this with him in 
writing, which I did. Both Mr B and Barclays were given an opportunity to comment on my 
intended decision. Neither responded with anything further. 
Ive issued a separate decision setting out which aspects of Bs complaint we can  and 
cant  look into. Now that the jurisdiction matter has been decided, Ill share below what I 
think about the aspects of Bs complaint we do have the power to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate the outcome will be 
disappointing for Mr B, and Im genuinely sorry to hear about Bs loss, but I cant fairly and 
reasonably ask Barclays to refund this. Ill explain why. 
Barclays role here is limited to it providing payment services to a legitimate regulated 
financial firm who Ill refer to as AX. AX provides financial services (specifically foreign 
exchange services) to its own customers. Barclays is not responsible for the onboarding of 
AXs customers, nor the monitoring of those relationships. And I could only fairly direct 
Barclays to refund Bs loss if Im satisfied (in relation to matters within my jurisdiction) it (not 
AX) reasonably failed to prevent this loss or did something wrong where it would be fair to 
ask it to provide a refund.
 
Barclays obligations are to monitor its own customers account  that being AX  not AXs 
customers. With that in mind, the payment B made was in line with the expected activity for 
AXs account and in line with its normal operation. As such, I dont think Barclays ought 
reasonably to have had concerns where Id have expected it to have intervened. Im also 
satisfied Barclays couldnt have, on receipt of Bs payment, reasonably identified it was 
fraudulent. So I cant fairly conclude that Barclays missed an opportunity to prevent Bs loss.
 
Ive also considered whether there were any failures by Barclays when responding to the 
notification of fraud it received from H that hindered the recovery of Bs funds.
 
As Ive mentioned above Barclays would not have oversight of payment instructions received 
from AXs customers and upon notification wouldnt have known whether any funds 
remained. In such circumstances Barclays wouldnt just block AXs account. It would forward 
the fraud notification on to AX so that it can investigate; take any necessary action; and 
update Barclays if any funds remained. Barclays, on receipt of this information, would either 
update the remitting bank (here H) that no funds remained or arrange to return anything that 
may have been recovered.
 
When a bank is notified of fraud its expected to act straight away to prevent further losses  
this includes forwarding any fraud notifications on to the correct party. Barclays has not been 
able to locate information from the time the fraud was reported to them, and any information 
that has been provided is very limited and inconclusive. I understand that Mr B thinks this is 
unsatisfactory, but as I explained when I spoke to him, if information is unavailable (which 
can often be the case for either party) when reaching an outcome, I would rely on that which 
is available. And where the evidence is unclear, I would reach a decision based on what I 
think, on balance, is most likely.
 
In response to the Investigators outcome Mr B obtained and shared with our service an 
email between him and H, in which one of its corporate managers said:
 

H reported the fraud by telephone to Barclays on 14th September 2020.
This was followed up on the 15th September 2020, with H emailing Barclays an 
indemnity form.
Barclays confirmed receipt by email on 16th September 2020.
Barclays commenced its investigations and came back to H on 18th January 2021 to 
confirm that there no remaining funds to return.I understand based on the above Mr B does not consider Barclays response to be 
satisfactory or timely. There are several possibilities for the length of time it took Barclays to 
provide an update to H. These include it awaiting a response from AX; a delay in it notifying 
AX and a delay in it updating H on receipt of the information. Due to the lack of information 
available I couldnt definitively say which one of these it was.
 
But even if there were delays, the nature of the services AX provides means the money 
would have likely been paid away quickly. Similarly, quite often scammers deplete the 
accounts into which fraudulently obtained funds are received as quickly as possible to avoid 
the risk of the scam being identified, reported, and the funds being returned. Taking these 
factors into account, given there was some time between the payments being made (which 
was 6 August 2020) and the matter being reported (according to information provided by 
Mr B this was 14 September 2020), on balance, I think its most likely these funds wouldve 
been spent/paid away even before Mr B had identified and reported to H his fraud concerns. 
So even if there were failures by Barclays when responding to the notification of fraud, I 
dont think these wouldve impacted what it could have recovered.
 
For completeness, Ive also thought about whether a compensatory award is due. But 
looking at things as a whole the inconvenience here has been predominately caused by the 
alleged scammer and not the actions of Barclays. As such I dont think a compensatory 
award is appropriate. 
Despite my natural sympathy, taking everything into consideration, there isnt any 
reasonable basis upon which I can require Barclays to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman