DRN-2477959
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt treat him fairly when the term of his interest only 
mortgage expired. He asks for more time to find suitable accommodation and sell the 
property. He says the mortgage was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr B took out a five-year mortgage with Lloyds in 2002 on an interest only basis. Mr B says 
while he was able to repay the mortgage in 2008, Lloyds said he didnt need to and offered a 
five-year extension. In 2013 Mr B wasnt able to repay the mortgage and the term was 
extended for another five years. The term expired in December 2018 with an unpaid 
balance.
Mr B asked Lloyds to extend the term for 10 years. He says his mother, who is registered as 
disabled, lives with him and the house has been adapted to her needs. Lloyds didnt agree to 
extend the term. A court order for possession was issued in November 2019. 
Our investigator said Lloyds hadnt been unfair. Mr B hadnt provided information requested 
by Lloyds about his situation or engaged with Lloyds about what steps he was taking to 
repay the mortgage. The investigator said it was unlikely Mr Bs situation would be better 
after an extension.
Mr B didnt agree. He said Lloyds had misled him when he agreed to the term extensions in 
2008 and 2013. He says he was led to believe he could continue to extend the term, and its 
important we listen to his phone call with Lloyds in 2013.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was Mr B misled when the term of his mortgage was extended?
Mr B says when he took out the mortgage in 2002 he only needed a loan for a short time. 
The mortgage application says he would repay the mortgage by sale of property. The 
application says Mr B owned a property which was unencumbered and worth about 
£145,000. He planned to sell this and use the funds to repay the mortgage, probably at the 
end of the one-year fixed rate period. The application says Mr B was employed and Lloyds 
assessed the payments as affordable.
Mr B didnt repay the mortgage from the proceeds of sale of the other property. This doesnt 
mean Lloyds mis-sold the mortgage. I think it was entitled to rely on the information it was 
given  that Mr B would repay the mortgage within a short period by selling another property. 
Mr B says he could have repaid the mortgage in 2008. Its not clear why he didnt: hes only 
said that Lloyds said it wasnt necessary and agreed a five-year extension.
In 2013 Mr B said he wasnt able to repay the mortgage. He says Lloyds told him he needed 
a plan to repay the mortgage and he signed a declaration that hed sell the property. Mr B 
says he only signed this because he was told it was just for the paperwork and a further 
extension could be agreed. 
Lloyds provided a recording of its call with Mr B in 2013, which Ive listened to. Mr B didnt 
want to sell the property  he said he was very worried about this. He told Lloyds he had 
zero official income, and this had been the case for over 10 years. He said he was getting by 
with interest only payments and his mother paid his outgoings. Mr B said he had some 
shares and savings, but didnt want to use them to reduce the mortgage balance. 
Mr B said on the call he wanted an extension for 6-12 months. He said this would give him a 
target for repayment. He said hed like to continue making minimum payments with flexibility 
to make overpayments when he had funds available. 
Lloyds said it can agree to extend for up to five years, but Mr B can ask for a shorter term. It 
said it would be beneficial for Mr B to use any available funds to reduce the mortgage 
balance as this reduces the interest costs. It said Mr B would have to sign and return a 
declaration of intent to sell the property as he had no other means to repay the mortgage. It 
said it viewed sale as a last resort and Mr B could look to make overpayments or switch to a 
repayment mortgage if his circumstances improved. Mr B returned the declaration and the 
term was extended for five years.
I dont think Lloyds misled Mr B. I think it was clear each time that the mortgage term was 
extended for five years. The reason for the extension in 2008 is unclear. The reason in 2013 
is clear: Mr B couldnt repay the mortgage and wanted time to find a solution. Lloyds didnt 
give any assurances in 2013 that it would extend the term on an interest only basis again. I 
think Mr B chose to extend the term in 2013 because his only other option was to sell the 
property immediately  which he didnt want to do.
Should Lloyds extend the term again?
The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only mortgages, repayment strategy 
before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages. Mr B wants to vary his mortgage by 
extending the term.
There are two exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014. First, where an 
existing mortgage is to be varied and theres no change to its terms likely to be material to 
affordability. And, if the first exception doesnt apply, the lender doesnt have to carry out an 
assessment of affordability or repayment strategy provided the loan balance hasnt 
increased since 2014 and the proposed change is in the borrowers best interests. 
I should say that this doesnt mean Lloyds cant consider affordability, and ask for 
information about Mr Bs circumstances to do so. Lloyds can fairly take this into account 
when considering whats in Mr Bs best interests. I should also say that while the exception 
allows Lloyds to agree to vary the mortgage despite concerns about affordability it isnt 
required to do so. It could still fairly decline to extend the term for another reason. 
Lloyds extended the term for five years in 2013 to give Mr B time to look for ways to repay 
the mortgage. It seems though that Mr B doesnt have means to repay the mortgage without 
selling the property.
Lloyds says it asked Mr B for information about his mothers occupancy, her health and any 
success with retirement lending, but he hasnt provided this. Mr B told Lloyds he was looking into putting the house into his mothers name so she could take out an equity release 
product. He told us this isnt an option.
I dont think its in Mr Bs best interests for Lloyds to extend the term. Theres nothing to 
suggest he will be in a better position to repay the mortgage at the end of any extension. 
Mr B hasnt provided evidence that the property has been adapted for his mother, other than 
to say they received funding for handrails and a new boiler. If the house has been adapted 
he should provide evidence of this to Lloyds. While moving home might be difficult for his 
mother, it seems likely this will get more difficult as time goes on. 
I must be fair to both parties here. Lloyds is entitled to expect its money to be repaid. 
Fairness suggests as a starting point that Mr B repaid the mortgage when the last term 
extension expired  as he agreed to do. 
Overall, I dont think its reasonable or fair to require Lloyds to offer Mr B a further term 
extension. I dont think Mr B would be in a better position to repay the mortgage at the end of 
any extension. 
What happens now?
Its over two years since the term expired. Lloyds says its repossessions team want to check 
whether the property has been adapted for Mr Bs mother. It says while payments are made 
and given current circumstances theres no urgency to repossess. However, it has a court 
order, which it can enforce when restrictions on evictions are lifted.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and related Government restrictions, the regulator issued 
guidelines to lenders. Current guidelines say other than in exceptional circumstances 
lenders shouldnt enforce repossession before 1 April 2021. Lloyds should take this, and any 
further guidance into account.
Mr B should keep Lloyds informed about the steps hes taking to repay the mortgage. I must 
remind Lloyds of its duty to treat Mr B fairly. And it should of course take guidance issued by 
the regulator into account. But ultimately if Mr B isnt able to repay his mortgage it will be 
entitled to take possession as a last resort. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman