DRN-2180411
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc recorded a CIFAS marker against his 
name with CIFAS, the UKs fraud alert service.
What happened
Mr S had a current account and two savings accounts with NatWest. Between 5 February 
and 5 March 2018 Mr Ss current account received a large number of credits by way of bank 
transfers from a number of different sources. 
On 5 February 2018 a credit of £4,212.38 was paid into Mr Ss current account. At around 
the same time, these funds were withdrawn via fifteen separate payments ranging from £2 to 
£2,520.00 via mobile banking to payees set up using online banking. 
On 22 February 2018 a payment of £6,660.07 was paid into Mr Ss account. This was 
followed by a further credit of £7,462.00 on 23 February 2018. These funds were withdrawn 
in ten separate transactions via mobile banking, cash machines, point of sale transactions 
and a branch payment.
On 5 March 2018, three payments of £1,915.00, £1,897.00 and £1,970.00 were credited to 
Mr Ss account. These funds were withdrawn on the same day via mobile banking and a 
cash machine withdrawal.
NatWest then received notification from a number of other banks, each saying that their 
customer had been the victim of a fraud  in other words money had been transferred from 
their customers account without their authorisation into Mr Ss account with NatWest. 
NatWest accepted what the other banks said and wrote to Mr S on 9 March 2018 to let him 
know that his accounts would be closed. And it recorded information with CIFAS.
Mr S has explained that some months later, he was having difficulty opening a bank account 
and became worried that hed have trouble obtaining a mortgage in the future due to the 
marker. He says he was aware of the activity on his account but was focussed on his studies 
and part time job so didnt have time to do anything about it and alert the bank. He said he 
didnt carry out the transactions. And said he lost his wallet which contained his bank card, 
online banking details including his PIN along with his mobile phone, which he said was 
unlocked via his thumb print or pass code. He said his passcode, which was his date of birth, 
was the same as his PIN and how an unknown individual was able to access his account.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into things 
for him. She couldnt see how Mr Ss mobile banking, bank card and PIN were all 
compromised and thought it was more likely than not that Mr S had made the transactions 
himself or authorised a third party to make them. She hadnt seen any evidence to show 
Mr S had reported his bank card as lost or stolen. So, she didnt recommend NatWest 
should remove the CIFAS marker. Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that the payments made into Mr Ss account were fraudulent. This means 
Mr S had been the beneficiary of a number of credits which werent intended for him but for 
someone else. That in itself doesnt mean that Mr S was involved or knew about them. The 
bar for recording a marker is very high. NatWest needed to have a reasonable belief the 
matter could be reported to the police. A suspicion or concern isnt enough. So, Ive looked 
at whether NatWest was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence it had and the 
investigation it carried out and what the rules say about applying such markers.
Having looked at all the evidence NatWest has provided and reviewed what Mr S has said 
about what happened, Im satisfied that the bank had enough evidence to record a CIFAS 
marker against Mr S.  I say this for the following reasons:
NatWest has evidence that the credits received into Mr Ss account on 5, 22, and 23 
February 2018 and 5 March 2018 were fraudulent
To carry out the mobile banking withdrawals an unknown third party would have 
needed to access Mr Ss bank card, PIN and online security information. The 
transactions were carried out using Mr Ss mobile phone and from an IP address hed 
used previously for transactions he hasnt disputed.
Mr S initially told the investigator that his wallet containing his bank card and bank 
details (including his online customer number and PIN) had been lost between 
September 2017 and January 2018. More recently he said this had occurred 
sometime around 5 February 2018. However, I can see from looking at Mr Ss 
account statement that there are a number of undisputed transactions before, during 
and after the disputed transactions, such as point of sale transactions and cash 
machine withdrawals, which wouldve required Mr S to have been in possession of 
his bank card. 
I can also see that Mr S continued to receive credits into his account and made 
undisputed payments at the same venues before, during and after the fraudulent 
credits were paid into his account. So, I think its likely Mr S was in possession of his 
bank card and mobile phone between September 2017 and March 2018.
Theres no evidence that Mr S reported his bank card as lost or stolen to the bank. 
And theres no evidence that hes reported his phone as lost or stolen. Even if I 
accept however, that Mr S lost his card and mobile phone that doesnt explain how 
anyone who found them knew Mr Ss passcode to unlock his mobile phone in order 
to make the online withdrawals.
Mr S says he was simply too busy with his studies to report what was happening to 
the bank. I note however, that on 24 February 2018, the bank questioned Mr S about 
a £500 transaction hed made. He told the bank this was to buy a car. I think this 
provided Mr S with an opportunity to alert the bank what was happening with his 
account. But he didnt do so.Mr S didnt report the disputed transactions until the bank decided to close his 
accounts in March 2018, yet Mr S has consistently said he was aware of the 
fraudulent activity on his account. I find it unusual that he didnt report the issue 
sooner. I wouldve expected Mr S to alert NatWest as soon as he discovered the 
fraudulent activity on his account so that his account could be safeguarded against 
fraud. I think the only likely explanation is that Mr S knew about and authorised these 
transactions. 
When I weigh everything up, I simply dont find Mr Ss explanation plausible. And Im 
satisfied that NatWest met the burden to proof required in placing the CIFAS marker against 
Mr S. I think it more likely than not that he knew rather more about the account activity than 
hes told the bank or this service.  On that basis, I think its fair that NatWest reported Mr S to 
CIFAS for misuse of his account. So, Im not going to ask it to remove the marker.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman