DRN-3403867
Complaint
Mrs S says that Zopa Limited (Zopa) unfairly refused to change the date for her monthly 
loan repayment and unfairly recorded adverse information on her credit file.
Background and my provisional decision of 18 March 2022
One of our investigators looked into Mrs S concerns. He also initially considered whether 
Zopa failed to make reasonable adjustments when notified of Mrs S additional requirements, 
as well as her complaints about the failure to change her monthly payment date and Zopa 
recording adverse information on her credit file. The investigator initially thought that Zopa 
had acted unfairly in relation in failing to make reasonable adjustments, failing to change  
Mrs S payment date and also recording adverse information on her credit file. 
Both Zopa and Mrs S appear to have accepted the investigators findings in relation to 
Zopas failure to make reasonable adjustments when notified of Mrs S additional 
requirements. But Zopa disagreed with the investigators view on the change of payment 
date and removing any adverse information from Mrs S credit file. In its view, Mrs S 
unilaterally changed her payment date and it was entitled to treat this as an early partial 
settlement. As Mrs S then didnt return to making her contractual monthly payments, missed 
payments were recorded on her credit file. This was a view which persuaded our investigator 
and he issued a revised opinion confirming this. 
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators revised findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review her case.   
On 22 March 2022, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr S 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
The information put before me and in particular the statement of account provided suggested 
that Mrs S has never been in a position where shes owed Zopa more than she was 
scheduled to owe, at any given period during the agreement. So I found it somewhat odd for 
Zopa to have recorded adverse information on Mrs S credit file in these circumstances. 
Both Zopa and our investigator said that this was because Mrs S first payment was made 
early on 15 June 2020 instead of 29 June 2020 and this meant it was treated as an 
overpayment rather than a contractual payment. Zopa relied on the loan contract to support 
its position and in particular the section entitled Repayments which said:   
 You will pay the Total Amount Payable in 60 monthly repayments of £337.86 each. 
The first such Repayment will be due and payable one (1) month after the date on which 
we initiate payment of the net amount of the loan proceeds to you (as confirmed to you in 
writing at the time). Each subsequent Repayment shall be due and payable on the same 
date of each consecutive month thereafter (the Repayment Date). All Repayments are to 
be made in accordance with Clause 2 of the Loan Conditions. 
The contract also contains a section entitled 2. Payment. Subsection 6 says:
a. You can change the Repayment Date by notifying Zopa that you wish to do so and 
specifying the new date within the month upon which you wish your repayments to take 
place. Such requests may be made by logging-in to your Zopa account and following the 
instructions there, or by email to contactus@zopa.com or by calling us at the general 
contact number shown on the Lending Platform (such calls will be recorded to confirm your 
consent to the change).
b. Depending on whether the revised Repayment Date is before or after the original 
Repayment Date in the month, the amount of your next Repayment on the new 
Repayment Date will be adjusted to take account of the number of days between the new 
Repayment Date and the previous one. The remaining Repayments (assuming no further 
changes) will revert to the usual Repayment amount.
Zopa said that the repayment section of the contract together with Mrs S loan being paid out 
on 29 May 2020 meant that her first payment was due on 29 June 2020. And as Mrs S didnt 
want to incur a cost for changing her repayment date and instead unilaterally chose to make 
her payments on a day which suited herself, the payments werent made on the repayment 
date set out on her loan contract and were therefore late.
I thought about what Zopa had said. But I wasnt persuaded by its argument for a number of 
reasons. Firstly, subsection 6 of the payments section of the contract clearly stated that         
Mrs S could request a change to her payment date by email by specifying the new date 
within the month upon which she wished her repayments to be made. And the 
correspondence provided indicated that Mrs S asked for her payment date to be changed 
from the 29th of each month as far back as 1 June 2020. 
Zopa said Mrs S didnt consent to the change because she didnt want to pay the extra 
charge due for changing the payment date. But it was unclear to me what charge Zopa 
believed it was entitled. I couldnt see that the contract set out an administrative fee for 
making such a change. And as Mrs S was bringing her payment date forward rather than 
pushing it back, if anything Mrs S would have been entitled to make a lower initial payment 
to account for the earlier payment date, rather than it being the case that Zopa was entitled 
to levy an additional charge. So I didnt think that it was fair and reasonable for Zopa to 
argue that it didnt carry out, what appeared to me to be a clear, request because Mrs S 
didnt consent to an additional charge, when an additional charge wasnt due. 
I also gave thought to the fact that Zopa may have decided to argue that Mrs S request to 
change her payment date wasnt made in the form prescribed in the contract. I didnt know if 
Mrs S request was made in the form prescribed in the contract as Zopa hadnt provided the 
email address Mrs S sent her emails to. But even if Mrs S emails werent sent to the 
address detailed on the contract, given Zopa was also on notice that Mrs S additional 
requirements (because she struggled to read information on a computer screen) which it 
needed to make reasonable adjustments for, I was satisfied that it, in any event, ought to 
have actioned the request to change the payment date. So I was minded to conclude that 
Zopa failed to act fairly and reasonably by failing to formally change Mrs S payment date.
I also went on to add that even if Mrs S payment date wasnt properly requested, for the 
sake of completeness I went on to make it clear that I didnt consider this to be the case, I, in 
any event, didnt think that this meant Zopa was entitled to treat Mrs S 15 June 2020 
payment as an early partial settlement.
I said this because section 3 of Mrs S loan contract was entitled Early Settlement. And 
subsection 1 of the agreement stated:You may at any time settle your Loan Contract early and end the Loan Contract in whole or 
in part by following the instructions set out in your Zopa account or as notified by the 
Collection Agency and repaying the full or partial amount you wish to repay.
As I understood it, Mrs S 15 June 2020 payment was made via standing order. And after 
she had clearly said that she considered the payment to be her monthly loan payment, I 
didnt think it was fair and reasonable for Zopa to on the one hand argue that it refused to 
accept  Mrs S 15 June 2020 payment as her June 2020 monthly repayment, because it 
wasnt made in the form prescribed in her contract; yet also argue it was entitled to treat the 
payment as an early partial settlement when it also didnt appear to have been made in the 
prescribed form for that either. And this was in circumstances where Zopa had clear 
evidence  namely Mrs S previous emails and the payment being the amount of the 
contractual monthly payment - to suggest that this wasnt what the payment was for either. 
In these circumstances, I thought that even if Zopa did believe that Mrs S hadnt formally 
consented to changing her repayment date, by this stage Id already explained why I didnt 
agree with this, Zopa nonetheless, ought fairly and reasonably to have treated the payment it 
received as an advance monthly payment rather than an early partial settlement. 
I was also concerned by Zopas decision to record adverse information on Mrs S credit file.  
I was concerned by this because the purpose of a credit file is to provide lenders with a 
summary of how well a customer is managing their finances. In this case, Mrs S was never 
behind in terms of the amount that she had to pay to Zopa. In fact, given Mrs S was making 
her payments early and bearing in mind the likely amortisation schedule at the outset of the 
loan, I thought that Mrs S was almost certainly ahead of where she would now be in terms of 
her payments. 
So recording adverse information on Mrs S credit file, in these circumstances, bearing in 
mind this inferred that she wasnt managing her finances well seemed to me to not only be 
logically fallacious but also, arguably mean spirited, and not in keeping with treating Mrs S 
fairly. And Zopa recording adverse payment information on Mrs S credit file in the 
circumstances that it left me intending to issue a final decision finding that it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs S in relation to this.   
Overall and having carefully considered everything, I was minded to issue a final decision 
which found that Zopa failed to act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs S. This was 
because I was minded to conclude that it unfairly refused to change Mrs S monthly loan 
repayment date and it also acted unfairly and unreasonably towards Mrs S by recording 
adverse information on her credit file. 
As I was minded to conclude that Mrs S lost out as a result of Zopas actions, I then set out a 
method of putting things right. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs S confirmed receiving my provisional decision and her agreement with my findings.
Zopa also confirmed receiving my provisional decision and its agreement with the outcome. 
It said it could arrange to amend what it reported on Mrs S credit file and make the 
compensation payment. But it needed to speak to Mrs S or email her to change the payment 
date. And it couldnt restructure Mrs S loan. That said, there was no detriment to Mrs S as 
she was never charged any late payment fees and interest has only ever been charged on 
the outstanding capital amount. My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses. And Im pleased to see that Zopa has agreed with my 
conclusions.
Im also satisfied that what it has proposed to do in terms of getting in contact with Mrs S to 
change her repayment date and its confirmation that no rework of the loan is necessary 
because Mrs S will still make the same monthly payments, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
As this is the case, and as neither party has provided any further arguments regarding the 
conclusions I reached, Ive not been persuaded to alter the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. So Im still upholding Mrs S complaint and Zopa should put things right 
in the way Ive set out below. 
Fair compensation  what Zopa needs to do to put things right for Mrs S
Ive already explained that Zopa should have changed Mrs S payment date in June 2020. 
As far as I can see, Mrs S has made all of her payments on the 15th of each month since 
then. So Zopa should get in contact with Mrs S (via an appropriate method) and formally 
change Mrs S monthly payment date to the 15th for the remaining payments on the loan. 
Zopa also needs to remove any missed payment or other adverse information it has 
recorded on Mrs S credit file as a result of this loan too.
I know turn to compensation for the distress and inconvenience Zopas actions has caused 
Mrs S. Zopa has already accepted that it should pay Mrs S £100 for the delay in making 
reasonable adjustments when notified of Mrs S additional requirements. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that the adverse information recorded on Mrs S credit file caused her 
additional losses  such as preventing her from obtaining credit she would have otherwise 
been able to obtain. 
But I think that the recording of this information clearly caused Mrs S additional stress and 
worry  certainly at a level above the levels of frustrations and annoyance one might 
reasonably expect from day-to-day life  and she did make repeated attempts to try and 
address this matter with Zopa. Bearing all of this in mind, I think that Zopa should pay a 
further £250 (in addition to the £100 it has already agreed to pay) in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it failing to act fairly and reasonably towards Mrs S caused. 
So overall and having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of Mrs S complaint for Zopa to put things right by:
Getting in contact with Mrs S and changing her monthly payment date to the 15th 
of each month going forwards.
Removing all adverse information recorded on Mrs S credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
Paying Mrs S a total of £350 in compensation (including the £100 it has already 
agreed to pay) for the distress and inconvenience it failing to act fairly and 
reasonably towards Mrs S caused.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 18 March 2022, Im 
upholding Mrs S complaint. Zopa Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman