DRN-3134799
The complaint
Mr B and Mr L complain that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
has turned down a cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr B and Mr L booked a holiday abroad to a country Ill call H. They were 
due to travel on 25 June 2020. They took out a Premier Plus TravelTime single trip travel 
insurance policy on 3 February 2020 to cover their trip.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 
17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the 
FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. And on 25 March 2020, Hs 
government closed its border to all non-residents. These restrictions remained in place at the 
time Mr B and Mr L were due to travel.
Mr B and Mr Ls airline cancelled their flights. This meant Mr B and Mr L had to cancel their 
trip. Their accommodation costs were non-refundable though, so Mr B and Mr L made a 
claim on their travel insurance policy for these costs.
Chaucer turned down Mr B and Mr Ls claim. It said the circumstances of it werent covered 
by the cancellation section of the policy. 
Mr B and Mr L were unhappy with Chaucers decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought that Mr B and Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. He accepted that 
the policy didnt cover cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice. But he noted that the 
policy specifically excluded any cover at all if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice. 
This meant Mr B and Mr L wouldnt have been covered if theyd cancelled and they wouldnt 
have been covered if they travelled. He didnt think the policy terms made the combined 
effect of these terms clear. And he considered that if Mr B and Mr L had been aware that 
they wouldnt be covered if FCDO guidance changed before they travelled, they wouldve 
been unlikely to take out the policy. So he felt it would be fair for Chaucer to assess Mr B 
and Mr Ls claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Chaucer disagreed and Ive summarised its response. This policy operates on a specified 
perils basis only and cancellation due to changes in FCDO advice isnt something the policy 
covers. The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and policy wording clearly set 
out the exclusion and so it had been clearly signposted to Mr B and Mr L. It felt it was Mr B 
and Mr Ls responsibility to read the policy wording. It didnt agree that the exclusion created 
a significant imbalance of the rights of the parties. It said the premium paid was reflective of 
the cover offered. It felt most policies included exclusions of this nature and that if Mr B and 
Mr L had required this cover, they couldve bought a policy which covered these 
circumstances.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for Chaucer to turn down Mr B and Mr Ls claim and 
Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for Business) say:
  a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to: 
 act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer; 
 handle claims promptly and fairly. 
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in 
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed. 
Appropriate information includes the information that must be set out in an IPID, which 
gives customers an at a glance summary of their cover. This includes a summary of the 
insurance cover, including the main risks insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, 
the geographical scope and summary of excluded risks. 
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors 
for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions  
or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.   
The policy documentation
Ive looked carefully at the policy documentation which is relevant to Mr B and Mr Ls claim  
the policy terms and conditions and the IPID.
Page 20 of the policy sets out the listed, specific insured events Chaucer covers if a 
policyholder has to cancel their trip. These are as follows:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of: 
a) you 
b) any person who you are travelling with 
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with 
d) your close relative 
e) your close business associate 
2. You or any person who you are travelling with being quarantined on the orders of a 
treating doctor, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance. 
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling with (which qualifies for payment 
under current UK redundancy payment legislation, and at the time of booking the trip there 
was no reason to believe anyone would be made redundant). 
4. You or any person who you are travelling with, are a member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or employees of a Government 
Department and have your/their authorised leave cancelled or are called up for operational 
reasons, provided that the cancellation or curtailment could not reasonably have been 
expected at the time when you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip, 
which occurred or became apparent within 5 days prior to the commencement of your trip or 
during the course of your trip. 
5. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due to 
serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence, 
fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
Page 7 of the policy sets out the Geographical Areas covered by the policy. This states:
Please note: this policy does not cover your travel to a country or specific area or event to 
which the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office or the World Health 
Organisation has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.
Page 11 sets out the general exclusions which apply to the whole policy. This includes the 
following:
Any claim arising as a direct result of a situation highlighted by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office where you have travelled to a specific country or to an area where, 
prior to your trip commencing, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office have advised, against 
all (but essential) travel.
Page 1 of the IPID, under the heading What is not insured says:
Travelling to a country or to an area where, prior to your trip commencing, the FCO have 
advised against all (but essential) travel.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances?
Mr B and Mr L cancelled their trip because the FCDO had advised against all but essential 
travel abroad to their intended destination. Thats not something that is covered under the 
terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. However, 
taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair 
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain.
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr B and Mr L had travelled abroad (in 
the event that it was possible for them to do so), theyd have not followed FCDO advice. So, 
they wouldnt have been covered by any of the policy terms and conditions. But, under the 
terms and conditions of the contract, cancellation of a holiday due to changes in FCDO 
guidance also isnt covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear to Mr 
B and Mr L and I dont think the implications of this were clearly sign-posted to them. 
I think this has left Mr B and Mr L in an unfair position. The policy exclusions relating to 
travelling against FCDO advice which Ive quoted above dont say that no cover is provided 
for the cancellation of a holiday in the event of FCDO advice changing between the date the 
policy was purchased and the policyholders date of departure. And cancellation claims due 
to the FCDO advising against all but essential travel arent included in the What is not 
insured section of the IPID, neither are they mentioned as a specific exclusion under the 
Cancellation or Curtailment Charges section of the policy. 
The IPID only sets out the general exclusion that policyholders wont be covered if they travel against FCDO advice. Page 3 of Mr B and Mr Ls terms and conditions set out the 
schedule of benefits payable under the policy. This says, amongst other things, that Mr B 
and Mr L can claim up to £4,000 per person in the event of cancellation of a trip (based on 
the Premier Plus level of cover which they held). Similar information is contained in the 
IPID. The IPID also says it is: only intended to provide a summary of the main coverage 
and exclusions, it does not replace the policy terms and conditions. Complete pre-
contractual and contractual information on the product is provided in your policy 
documentation. 
Overall, this means a consumer would need to go further into the detail of their policy 
wording to know whether they could successfully claim if they had to cancel their trip 
because of changes to FCDO advice after theyd bought their policy. When a consumer 
reaches page 20 of their policy documentation, which sets out the cancellation cover 
available, claims arising from a change in FCDO advice arent listed as a specific exclusion. 
Instead, claims for this reason are not listed as included within the cover. 
Overall, I dont think the fact that theres no cover under this policy for cancellation claims in 
the event of FCDO advice changing was clearly brought to Mr B and Mr Ls attention. I dont 
think its fair or reasonable to expect consumers to be required to read the terms and 
conditions thoroughly from beginning to end in order to understand important issues about 
what is and isnt covered. I think policyholders would be entitled to expect a restriction such 
as an exclusion from cover for cancellation claims relating to a change in FCDO advice to be 
more prominent (for example, to be in the IPID). 
And I think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims arising from a change in FCDO 
advice isnt transparent enough. The section of the policy setting out what will be covered if 
the policyholder is unable to travel is at page 20. But the exclusions relating to travelling 
against FCDO advice arent presented in the same place. I think the way the cancellation 
section of cover and the exclusions relating to travelling against FCDO advice are presented 
separately means their combined effect isnt clear. 
Chaucer has said that, if Mr B and Mr L had wished to purchase cover for cancellation of a 
trip arising from changes in FCDO advice, they could have done so from another insurer. 
However, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it would have been apparent to Mr 
B and Mr L that they would have no cover whatsoever under this policy if FCDO travel 
advice to their destination changed after they bought the policy. And, even with a cooling off 
period allowing for the policy to be cancelled within 14 days of purchase, I think a consumer 
might not be able to easily understand the full effect of the policy. 
So in these circumstances, I think this is unfair and results in a significant imbalance 
between Mr B and Mr L and Chaucer. Mr B and Mr L were left without any cover at all when 
FCDO advice changed and I think this shifted the rights and obligations under the contract 
significantly in Chaucers favour. And Im not persuaded Mr B and Mr L would have freely 
agreed to a policy that left them without any cover in these circumstances if theyd realised 
that was how the policy would work. If they had, theyd have been able to purchase 
alternative cover. 
At the time Mr B and Mr L bought this policy, there were other travel insurance policies 
available on the market which would have covered the circumstances they subsequently 
found themselves in. So, overall, I think the way the information about the cover available 
under this policy was presented wasnt fair and I dont think Chaucer was acting in the best 
interests of its customers when presenting the information in the way it did. 
In summary then, I think the fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances would be for 
Chaucer to treat Mr B and Mr Ls claim as covered under the Cancellation or Curtailment Charges section of their policy, and to assess their claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company to treat Mr B and Mr Ls 
claim as covered under the Cancellation or Curtailment Charges section of their policy and 
to assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman