DRN-2974031
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK plc wont refund to him the money that he paid for some 
furniture. His wife is also involved in his complaint.
 
What happened
Mr M used his Santander credit card in October 2018 to pay a deposit of £500 for some 
furniture. The total cost of the furniture was £3,800 and he paid the balance of £3,300 using 
his Santander credit card in January 2019. The furniture was delivered in January 2019 but 
Mr M said that it wasnt of satisfactory quality. The supplier agreed to replace the furniture 
and Mr M was asked to inspect it before delivery. He said that it had the same issues as the 
other furniture and that the leather was damaged.
The supplier arranged for the furniture to be inspected at its premises by an independent 
expert in August 2019. The expert said that he  found no fault with the inside backs or the 
headrests; both the inside backs and headrests are sufficiently filled as should be , and 
that he found the furniture  to be of a high manufacturing standard with no manufacturing 
faults.  
The furniture was then delivered to Mr M but he wasnt satisfied with the quality of it so he 
paid for an inspection of the furniture by a different independent expert in July 2020. That 
expert concluded: The furniture clearly exhibits manufacturing faults regarding alignment 
issues with the fixed seat and back cushion covers of the furniture and RHF action of the 
2str and chair. Crush damage to the fixed back cushions and arm pads of the furniture is 
also clearly visible. The control unit has been fitted upside down on the LHF arm of the chair 
and dust cover has not been refitted this indicates a repair prior to delivery. The cosmetic 
repair to the top of the LHF O/side arm of the 2str sofa is clearly visible due to a lack of grain 
in the finish of the repair. The retailer must address this complaint.
Mr M claimed a refund from Santander under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 of 
the cost of the furniture and the £130 that hed paid for the experts report. It said that the 
supplier had an inspection carried out before delivery which concluded that there were no 
faults with the furniture. Mr M wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
there had been a breach of contract because the furniture wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale and that Mr M was entitled to a full refund. She recommended that Santander 
should rework his credit card account and add interest if there was a credit balance. She 
said that the furniture should be collected at no further cost to Mr M and that it should 
reimburse £130 to Mr M for the independent report.
Both Mr M and Santander have asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. Santander says that the two reports are conflicting and that a third independent 
report is needed. It says that the supplier took the correct action when the initial furniture 
was rejected by the customer and then paid for an independent report of the replacement 
furniture which confirmed that there were no faults with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M used credit provided by Santander to pay for the furniture - in certain 
circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a consumer an 
equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit 
if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ms complaint about Santander, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier and that 
Santanders response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but 
Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ms claim under section 75 as only a court 
would be able to do that;
the supplier has accepted that the furniture that was delivered to Mr M in January 
2019 wasnt of satisfactory quality so it agreed to replace it;
the replacement furniture was inspected by Mr M at the suppliers premises before it 
was delivered to him and he said that it wasnt of satisfactory quality so the supplier 
arranged for it to be inspected by an independent expert;
the independent expert inspected the furniture at the suppliers premises  so before 
it was delivered to Mr M  and concluded that it was manufactured to a high standard 
with no manufacturing faults found;
the furniture was then delivered to Mr M and he arranged for it to be inspected by a 
different independent expert in July 2020  the inspection report identified a number 
of issues with the sofa (as set out above), provided a detailed description of those 
issues supported by 15 photos showing the issues and said that the supplier must 
address those issues;
as that report was made following an inspection of the furniture after it had been 
delivered to Mr M and provided a detailed description of the issues with it supported 
by photo evidence, I consider that its reasonable for me to place more reliance on 
that report than the report of the inspection that took place at the suppliers premises;
I dont consider that a third inspection report is required for me to be able to reach a 
decision on this complaint and, as the original furniture was delivered to Mr M in 
January 2019, Im not persuaded that a further delay is justified;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the furniture wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was delivered to Mr M and that Santanders response to his claim under 
section 75 hasnt been fair or reasonable;
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Santander to 
rework Mr Ms credit card account as if he hadnt made the payments totalling £3,800 
for the furniture as more particularly described below; and
I find that Santander should also arrange for the furniture to be collected from Mr M 
at no cost to him and that it should reimburse him for the cost of the independent 
experts report, with interest.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Santander to take the actions described above and as set out below.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order Santander UK plc to:
1. Rework Mr Ms credit card account as if the payment of £500 hadnt been made in 
October 2018 and the payment of £3,300 hadnt been made in January 2019, and - if 
that puts the account into credit - to pay interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on 
the credit balance for the periods that the account was in credit - it should also refund 
the credit balance to Mr M.
2. If Mr M has repaid the £500 and £3,300 (or any parts of it) to Santander but doesnt 
have a credit balance, to pay interest on the amount that he has repaid at an annual 
rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
3. Arrange for the furniture to be collected from Mr M at no cost to him.
4. Pay £130 to Mr M to reimburse him for the cost of the experts report.
5. Pay interest on the amount at 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to deduct tax from the interest payments 
referred to above. Santander must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman