DRN-3028807
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE has paid only part of a 
cancellation claim made under their travel insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs H held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes.
Mr and Mrs H were due to travel abroad in July 2020 but, unfortunately, their trip was
cancelled due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. Mr and Mrs H received a refund
for the cost of their flights. However, Mr and Mrs H had booked their accommodation on a
non-refundable basis through a third-party provider (which Ill call H). H offered Mr and Mrs
H a credit voucher for the full value of the accommodation to be used within 12 months.
Mr and Mrs H said the holiday had been for a special occasion and theyd be unable to use
the credit voucher as their circumstances had since changed and they could no longer afford
to go on a holiday. So, they made a claim under their policy with Great Lakes for the cost of
their accommodation.
Great Lakes initially said Mr and Mrs Hs claim wasnt covered under their policy. It said their
insurance only provided cover for irrecoverable costs and, as Mr and Mrs H had been
offered a credit voucher to rebook their accommodation, it considered theyd already
recovered these costs. Great Lakes said, if Mr and Mrs H didnt use the voucher before the
expiry date and the voucher was then no longer valid, it would reconsider the claim. Great
Lakes subsequently offered to pay 50% of Mr and Mrs Hs claim as a gesture of goodwill.
As Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to the attention of our
service. There was some confusion about whether the 50% offer remained open to accept
but Great Lakes has since paid this to Mr and Mrs H.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said, without confirmation from H that
the credit voucher wouldnt be extended, she couldnt fairly ask Great Lakes to do anything
more.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so their complaint was passed to 
me to decide. I made my provisional decision about this complaint in August 2021. In it, I 
said:
Industry rules and guidance set out by the regulator say an insurer should handle claims
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules and guidance into
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and
Mrs Hs complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy say Great Lakes will, in certain
circumstances, pay for unused non-refundable pre-booked travel and accommodation
costs in the event that a holiday is cancelled.
The general exclusions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy say;
Your policy does not cover you for any claim directly or indirectly resulting from any
of the following: 
20. Any amount recoverable from any other source.
So, in common with most (if not all) travel insurance policies on the market, Mr and Mrs Hs
policy doesnt provide cover for costs that can be recovered from elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs H were originally offered a credit voucher for their accommodation, which was
valid for 12 months. Generally, unless the terms of a voucher are unreasonably restrictive
and/or a consumer has exceptional circumstances, Id consider a credit voucher to mean the
policyholder has recovered their costs from elsewhere.
However, in this case, Mr and Mrs H have provided evidence to show their circumstances
have since changed considerably and that this has affected their financial position  and
therefore their ability to go on holiday. So, overall, Im satisfied it wouldnt have been (and
currently wouldnt be) possible for Mr and Mrs H to use the credit voucher for
accommodation in their intended destination abroad. In these circumstances, I dont think it
was reasonable for Great Lakes to consider the offer of the credit voucher as meaning Mr
and Mrs H had recovered their costs from elsewhere.
In any event, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs H didnt use the credit voucher within the 12-month
timeframe. The original terms of the credit voucher offered by H said it could be redeemed
for a period of 12 months and if you are not able to use the credit voucherthen the
booking will be treated as a cancellation and the cancellation terms will apply. More than 12
months have passed since Mr and Mrs Hs trip was cancelled.
The accommodation provider has told Mr and Mrs H that H holds the full (non-refundable)
funds for their booking and are in control of the travel voucher. Mr and Mrs H have provided
evidence that they have been attempting to contact H directly but have received no
response.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that the credit voucher
hasnt been extended and is no longer valid.
So, even if I were to consider that the original credit voucher meant Mr and Mrs H had
recovered their costs from elsewhere, I think the situation has now moved on and its unlikely
that Mr and Mrs H would still be able to redeem the credit voucher, even if they were in a
position to do so.
Therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Great Lakes to
accept the remainder of Mr and Mrs Hs cancellation claim.
So, my provisional decision was that Great Lakes should pay the remainder of Mr and Mrs 
Hs claim, together with interest. 
Mr and Mrs H accepted my provisional decision. Great Lakes also said it accepted my 
provisional decision, but disputed the interest award. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Great Lakes has already paid 50% of Mr and Mrs Hs claim. My provisional 
decision didnt award interest on this aspect of the claim. Instead, I said I intended to ask 
Great Lakes to pay interest on the remainder of Mr and Mrs Hs claim.   
In most cases, this service thinks an interest award is appropriate to reflect the cost to the 
consumer of being deprived of money in the past. Im satisfied that an award of interest on 
the part of Mr and Mrs Hs claim which hasnt been paid to date is appropriate in this case. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to put things right and do the following:
pay the remainder of Mr and Mrs Hs cancellation claim, subject to any applicable 
policy excesses and/or limits, together with interest at 8% simple per annum from 
the date of the claim until the date the settlement is paid. 
If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much it has taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE and I direct it to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman