DRN-4164229
The complaint
Mr Q has complained about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) had dealt 
with a claim under a home insurance policy.
References to Admiral include companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr Q made a claim for an escape of water at his home. Mr Q chased progress on the claim 
and then made a complaint.
When Admiral replied to the complaint, it accepted communication had been poor. It also 
accepted that there had been some delays in progressing the claim. It offered a total of £230 
compensation for the impact on Mr Q.
When Mr Q complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. She said 
Admiral should pay Mr Q a further £200 compensation because of the disruption to Mr Q.
As Mr Q didnt agree this sufficiently addressed his concerns, the complaint was referred to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
My decision only deals with the period up to 23 February 2023, which is the date of the final 
response Admiral issued on the complaint.
Mr Q complained about the lack of progress on the claim and issues with contacting the 
company dealing with the claim for Admiral. I can see this has been a lengthy claim and that 
Mr Q is concerned that it is still ongoing. However, I will focus on the period covered by this 
complaint. 
Admiral accepted there had been poor communication and some delays in progressing the 
claim. By the time it responded to the complaint, the claim had been ongoing for about five 
months. All claims are likely to result in some level of disruption to a policyholder, but I think 
what happened in this instance was more than I would normally expect. I can understand Mr 
Qs frustration and concern and Im also aware there were other significant events taking 
place in Mr Qs life around this time. 
Mr Q was paid a disturbance allowance because of the disruption to his cooking facilities, so 
I think this addressed some of the disruption. Admiral also accepted there were issues with 
the claim handling. It offered £230 compensation for this. Looking at what happened and the 
amount of compensation I would normally say a business should pay in these 
circumstances, I dont think this was enough to recognise the issues raised, the timeframe 
involved and the impact on Mr Q. As a result, I think Admiral should pay a further £200 
compensation, so that it pays a total of £430 compensation.
Im aware Mr Q has said he doesnt think this is enough compensation. However, looking at 
the period the complaint covered, I think this is a fair amount for Admiral to pay. Im also 
aware Mr Q is concerned that his claim is still ongoing and that he doesnt think this is 
sufficient to incentivise Admiral to address the inaction on his claim. The purpose of 
compensation isnt to punish a business. If Mr Q has ongoing concerns with his claim, 
including whether he should still be paid disturbance allowance, he needs to raise this with 
Admiral directly. 
Putting things right
Admiral should pay Mr Q an additional £200 compensation, which is £430 in total.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr Q an additional £200 compensation, which is 
£430 in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman