DRN-4302541
The complaint
Mr Q complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr Q was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
BMWFS.
Mr Q experienced an issue with the tyre pressure dropping. He had all four tyres replaced in 
November 2022, but the tyre pressure warning light illuminated again, and the tyre came off 
the alloy wheel whilst he was driving. The car was recovered to a garage who told Mr Q that 
the alloy wheel was buckled and had been subject to a previous repair where poor welding 
had caused the tyre to lose air.
Mr Q reported this to the supplying dealer. The dealer said it wouldnt cover the cost of 
repairs, so Mr Q complained to BMWFS.
In its final response, BMWFS said it acknowledged that there was an issue with the alloy 
wheel but felt that it wasnt responsible for the costs of repair or replacement because the 
car had been inspected prior to sale and no faults with the alloys had been found.
Mr Q remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she was satisfied that the crack in the alloy 
was present at the point of supply and that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. The 
investigator said that BMWFS should arrange for the alloy to be repaired and meet the costs 
of repairs to the brakes and battery which had deteriorated as a result of the car not being 
driven for so long because of the fault with the alloy. The investigator also said that BMWFS 
should refund all payments made by Mr Q since November 2022 up until the car had been 
repaired.
Mr Q responded and said he didnt want the supplying dealer to carry out the repairs 
because hed lost faith in them. He said hed found a garage who could carry out the work 
and asked if he could arrange for the repairs to be completed there and be reimbursed by 
BMWFS.
BMWFS failed to respond to the investigators view within the deadline. It later responded 
and asked for a copy of the quote Mr Q had obtained to repair the car.
Our investigator sent BMWFS the quotes which Mr Q had obtained and asked BMWFS to 
confirm that it would agree to pay for the repairs, refund all payments made since 26 
November 2022 and pay compensation for distress and inconvenience.
BMWFS failed to respond within the deadline. Mr Q needed the car, so he went ahead and 
arranged for the repairs to be completed and provided this service with details of what hed 
paid.
Mr Q asked the investigator to reconsider her view and add in a diagnostic report fee hed 
paid and to increase the compensation payable to him to reflect the further delays. Mr Q also 
wanted BMWFS to reimburse him for some repairs which were needed to the spring link ball 
joints.
BMWFS responded to the investigator outside of the deadline. It said it accepted that the car 
should be repaired at no cost to Mr Q. It said it didnt agree to the repair being carried out by 
the main dealer but said it was happy for Mr Qs local garage to carry out the repairs. 
BMWFS said it would reimburse Mr Q for any costs he incurred with delivery and collection 
of the car to his local garage.
Because BMWFS had taken a long time to respond, the investigator explained that matters 
had moved on and issued a second view. In that view, she said that BMWFS should 
reimburse Mr Q for the cost of the repairs hed had carried out, refund the cost of the 
diagnostic report, refund all payments made since 26 November 2022 and pay 
compensation of £400 to Mr Q.
BMWFS didnt respond to the investigators second view within the timescale and neither did 
Mr Q, so the complaint has been referred to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following referral of the complaint to me, BMWFS has advised this service that it accepts 
the investigators second view.
Mr Q hasnt said that he accepts the second view, so Ive issued this final decision.
BMWFS has acknowledged that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, 
so I wont comment on quality issues in this decision. Instead, Ill focus on whats a fair and 
reasonable resolution.
Mr Q has already had the car repaired. BMWFS has agreed to reimburse the cost of these 
repairs. It has also agreed to reimburse the diagnostic report fee and refund all payments 
made by Mr Q from 26 November 2022 until 3 July 2023. BMWFS has also agreed to pay 
compensation of £400.
The outstanding issues I need to comment on relate to points raised by Mr Q before the 
investigator completed her second view. Mr Q said that he wanted BMWFS to meet the 
costs of repairs to the spring ball joints as part of the resolution to his complaint. This issue 
wasnt something that Mr Q raised in his initial complaint to BMWFS, so BMWFS hasnt had 
the opportunity to investigate it. Mr Q will need to raise this as a new complaint to BMWFS 
and allow them to investigate and issue a final response. Im unable to include the costs of 
repair to the spring ball joint in this decision for those reasons.
Mr Q also made the point that hed had to pay tax and insurance even though he was unable 
to drive the car since November 2022. He explained the impact that not being able to use 
the car had on his health, and his family and religious commitments. Ive thought about this 
and I think the fairest way to recognise the impact that being supplied with a car which 
wasnt of satisfactory quality had on Mr Q is to increase the compensation payable. The 
investigator increased the compensation from £250 to £400 which I think is fair and 
reasonable.Putting things right
To put things right, BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must:
Refund the repair costs of £1,514.40
Refund all payments made from 26 November 2022 to 3 July 2023
Refund the diagnostic fee of £99
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amounts refunded calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £400 for distress and inconvenience
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must 
take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman