DRN-3247029
The complaint
Ms H complains that, in 2010, National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a packaged bank 
account (PBA). 
What happened
Ms H had had a fee-free bank account with NatWest since 2001. In 2010 the account was 
changed to an Advantage Gold account. This was a package bank account which cost 
£12.95 and which gave a number of benefits, including travel insurance, mobile phone 
insurance, car breakdown cover, £100 interest free overdraft (if approved) and lower 
personal loan rates. 
Ms H kept the Advantage Gold account until 2014.
On the same day that Ms H took the packaged bank account in 2010, she also took a £7,000 
loan from NatWest. 
Ms H says she was pressurised into taking the packaged bank account. She says she had 
no need of the benefits as she didnt drive or travel, and she already had mobile phone 
insurance. She says she told NatWest this during the meeting but, after the meeting went on 
for a long time, she agreed to take the packaged bank account. She says that the discount 
she got for her loan was less than the amount she paid for the bank account in the first year. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Ms H didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms H has said she was pressurised into taking the account. However a problem I have, in 
assessing this, is that I couldnt know the exact words used by the adviser and the tone in 
which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of 
a packaged bank account, even if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as 
long as it is clear the customer has a choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel 
they have no real sensible alternative to taking the account, the less acceptable it is. But, 
as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say NatWest did 
something wrong in this way unless I had stronger evidence of it. 
I dont think NatWest recommended the account, in the sense used in the banking and 
insurance industry. That is to say, I dont think NatWest said it was carrying out a personal 
assessment of Ms Hs circumstances and was telling her this account was a good fit. 
Instead I think it likely it was pointing out the advantages of the package, and hoping Ms H 
would agree to take the upgraded account. 
Ms H has said she understood what was in the packaged bank account, and how much it 
cost. So it seems she had the information she needed to make a decision. It was then up 
to her to decide if it was good value for money  and shed also have had the choice of 
cancelling the account upgrade later and returning to her fee-free account, if she changed 
her mind about that. 
Overall, I dont have enough evidence to say the account was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman