DRN-3740642
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt handle his 
chargeback request correctly after he was unable to withdraw funds from an investment firm.
 
What happened
In November 2020 Mr L contacted Halifax as he believed that an affiliate of an investment 
firm that I will call C had manipulated him into depositing money and that trades had been 
carried out on his behalf without his consent.
In January 2021 as he was still in dispute with C and was unable to withdraw his funds from 
C, Mr L raised a chargeback claim with Halifax. The chargeback was raised and it was 
defended by C. Halifax declined to pursue the chargeback further and therefore the 
chargeback was unsuccessful. 
Mr L complained to Halifax about this and Halifax responded saying that it felt it had declined 
the chargeback correctly, but it recognised that there had been delays in the process and 
therefore it paid Mr L £100 to reflect this.
One of investigators looked into this matter already and they did not feel that Halifax had 
done anything wrong by declining the chargeback claim and the £100 paid was sufficient for 
the handling of this matter. 
Mr L did not agree with this outcome and therefore this complaint has been passed to me to 
issue a final decision. I should note that Mr L has raised a number of additional issues since 
this complaint has been with us. These include a Section 75 claim and delays in processing 
a subject access request. My understanding is that these are being dealt with separately. 
For the sake of clarity this decision only relates to the chargeback and Halifaxs handling of 
it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because the payments were made on a debit card, chargeback was the only option for 
Halifax to potentially pursue a refund for Mr B. Whilst there are some protections under the 
relevant chargeback scheme, this isnt a guarantee of a refund. 
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme - so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to question the card scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Halifax) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr L. 
The rules of the scheme and the evidence requirements are very specific. I wouldnt expect 
Halifax to pursue a chargeback where there wasnt a reasonable prospect of it succeeding. 
And a lack of the required evidence is one scenario where I think a claim would be unlikely 
to succeed.
In this instance Halifax says it pursued a chargeback and that it was defended by C. 
Specifically it says that a chargeback was raised under reason code 13.5 and was defended 
by C who provided proof that there were no funds in the account when Mr L attempted to 
withdraw money from his account.
What I need to consider is whether Halifax followed its procedures in relation to asking Mr L 
for evidence and if it did not, would it actually have made a difference. As a starting point I 
need to consider the relevant chargeback rules. 
The relevant chargeback reasons under the scheme rules here were 13.3 and 13.5. I should 
clarify at this point there are no chargeback codes for the merchant itself being a scam.
13.3 is for services not as described. For claims under this reason code to have succeeded 
at Visas final stage of arbitration, Halifax wouldve needed to provide evidence that C made 
written representations to Mr L guaranteeing an amount of profit/return he was due to 
receive. 
13.5 required Halifax to present dated evidence that Mr L had an available balance (in the 
form of a screenshot or confirmation from the merchant) and that he tried to withdraw sums 
equal to, or less than, his available balances on the same day.
In this instance, Halifax chose to pursue a claim under 13.5, I should add that Halifax were 
not obliged to raise a chargeback (though we think it is good practice to do so) and they can 
only raise a chargeback under one reason code. Given Mr Ls submissions I think that the 
choice of 13.5 was not unreasonable.
When the chargeback was raised it was defended by Cs bank (the merchant acquirer). 
Given the timescales involved Halifax have been unable to provide the actual information 
that was provided by the merchant acquirer. But given the e-mails and notes from the time I 
am satisfied, albeit on balance, that this evidence showed that Mr L had a zero balance at 
the time he attempted to withdraw his funds.
Halifax said that it then wrote to Mr L to ask for more information as it said it would during 
calls with Mr L around this time, when it did not receive any further information, it declined to 
pursue a chargeback further. I do not think that this was unreasonable. Mr L says he did not 
receive this letter. Halifax has not been able to provide the full letter, but on file there is an 
addressed excerpt that says the chargeback has been declined. Overall then I am satisfied, 
again on balance, that Halifax did write to Mr L to tell him the chargeback had been declined. 
I accept that Mr L may not have received this letter, but I cant hold Halifax responsible for 
postal issues. I should also add that regardless of the letter I cant see why Mr L could not 
have provided all the evidence he had in relation to this matter when he initially raised his 
claim.
I should also add for the sake of completeness that the evidential standard for chargeback is 
very high. I have examined the evidence that Mr L has provided that he says he was going 
to provide to Halifax. Looking at it I am not persuaded that the information wouldve been 
enough to make the chargeback successful. In short, Mr L has not provided dated evidence that shows an available balance when he 
attempted to withdraw funds, so I dont think a chargeback wouldve been successful under 
this code. So even had Halifax not sent him the letter (and I think it did) I dont think that it 
would have affected the outcome of the chargeback.
In relation to the customer service Mr L received during this matter I am satisfied, given the 
overall circumstances of this complaint, that the £100 that it paid Mr L is sufficient.
Having carefully considered this complaint, Im acutely aware of the significant impact this 
whole situation has had on Mr L. And Im of course very sorry to hear that he has lost such a 
significant amount of money. But overall, I am unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman