DRN-3707756
The complaint
Mr R complaints Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave him a line of credit he couldnt 
afford to repay. 
Mr R was also unhappy that in March 2021, Drafty wrote to him to increase his minimum 
repayment each month  by in effect doubling the repayments he had previously making. 
Mr R says he notified Drafty of his intention to close the facility but this wasnt done and 
instead he was threatened with debt collection letters. 
What happened
Mr R approached Drafty for a running credit facility in October 2018. Mr R was given a
facility with a £1,050 credit limit. The limit remained the same throughout the life of the credit 
facility. Drafty has confirmed that by August 2022, an outstanding balance remained due of 
£487.87.
Mr R was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also 
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be 
clear, Mr R was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys most recent final response letter (in October 2021) it explained the information it 
gathered from Mr R before it approved the facility showed hed be able to afford it and then 
service the facility. 
However, it did agree, that the facility may have been unsustainable for him from 
18 September 2019 and so it offered to refund any interest charged on new drawdowns from 
this date. After the refunding and offsetting against the outstanding balance  at the time, it 
left a balance of £762.98. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Rs complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before initially granting this facility were proportionate and showed Drafty Mr R was likely 
to be able to afford the payment amount as outlined by the hypothetical payment schedule in 
Mr Rs credit agreement. This was calculated on the full £1,050 being drawn down at the 
outset and then being repaid over 12 months. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have 
initially approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure the 
facility was affordable at the outset, it also had an obligation to monitor Mr Rs ongoing use 
of the facility. Having reviewed the way Mr R borrowed and repaid the facility, she thought by 
30 August 2019 Drafty ought to have realised that the facility had become unsustainable for 
him. Knowing this, in the adjudicators view Drafty shouldve stepped in and froze the interest 
on the facility. 
The adjudicator also said in relation to the second part of Mr Rs complaint:
So, taking everything into consideration I do think Mr R [full name removed] has been 
caused undue distress and inconvenience in the way youve gone about handling 
and addressing Mr R [full name removed]s overall questions and concerns regarding 
the changes to his credit facility repayments from March 2021 onwards, as well as 
the time it took to reasonably engage with him about an affordable repayment plan. 
Therefore, I think you should pay Mr R [full name removed] £150 to compensate him 
for any unnecessary frustrations and inconvenience he has been caused as a result.
In order to put things right, the adjudicator recommended all interest, fees and charged paid 
by Mr R from 30 August 2019 should be refunded, along with additional interest of 8% 
simple. She also said any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file from the uphold 
date should be removed from his credit file. 
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. It agreed to uphold the complaint 
from the same point in time (30 August 2019) but it agreed to only refund the interest fees 
and charges applied to any new drawdowns from that date. At the time the offer was made, 
Drafty explained this would lead to a new reduced outstanding balance of £213.45 and it 
also agreed to remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file. 
However, Drafty didnt agree to refund all of the interest fees and charges applied from 
30 August 2019. It said this was because: 
As the assessment is about whether our decision to continue lending the money was 
appropriate or not, your decision implies that any draws granted after 30th August 
2019 were inappropriate, and we should refund any interest paid on them. However, 
it also implied that draws granted prior to the upheld date were reasonable for us to 
grant. 
Drafty also agreed to pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that was 
caused. 
Draftys offer was put to Mr R and he didnt accept it. As no agreement has been reached, 
the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
After the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision, Mr R told the adjudicator 
about a new issue he had with Drafty. Mr R had been making manual repayments to pay 
down the balance but Drafty, in October 2022 had reactivated the continuous payment 
authority (CPA) that was previously held on the facility. Mr R has said a new complaint has 
been lodged with Drafty. To be clear, this issue will not be commented on in this decision 
and instead will be subject to a separate complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay 
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their 
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could 
make an informed decision on the lending.Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
As explained, Mr R was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Mr R would be able to both service and then repay his facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Mr Rs repayment record for any sign that he 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point the adjudicator reached, as it 
offered some redress from this time  30 August 2019. And while, Mr R rejected the 
settlement offer by Drafty, he didnt disagree that this is the point where the complaint ought 
to be upheld. 
So, it seems to me, that all parties to the complaint agree the facility should be upheld from 
30 August 2019. However, what is in dispute, and therefore what this decision has focused 
on, is whether the redress proposed by Drafty is fair and reasonable considering the 
circumstances of Mr Rs complaint. 
In addition, Drafty has also accepted that it ought to pay  directly to Mr R £150 due to the 
distress and inconvenient caused by it from March 2021, when it tried to increase his 
monthly repayment. I therefore, also wont make any further finding about this because it 
seems both parties agree this payment is fair and reasonable. 
Both the adjudicator and Drafty have agreed, that Mr Rs borrowing history showed he was 
potentially reliant on the facility and so it had become unsustainable for him. So, there 
doesnt appear to be any dispute as to when the facility likely became unsustainable for 
Mr R.
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for 
Mr R while explaining why I agree with the adjudicators conclusions that all the interest 
charged after the 30 August 2019 needs to be refunded. 
So, I dont think that I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not have 
taken in August 2019. There were a number of options which Drafty could have taken. But 
seeing as none of these were taken and Im satisfied that action ought to have been taken  
as it agrees. Ive considered what Drafty ought to fairly and reasonably do to put things right 
sometime after the event. And the proposed redress is the clearest and fairest way of doing 
this sometime after the event. But I have provided some commentary, about how Mr R used 
the facility. 
Indeed, as the adjudicator pointed out, Mr R made his minimum payment each month (of 
around £70 - £80) and then he would typically return within the same month but sometimes 
within a matter of days to drawdown any available credit he had  which was around £21. 
This pattern was visible from the start of the facility to the point that Drafty has now agreed 
the facility was unsustainable for him. 
The usage, in this case is in my view sufficient to show Drafty that it needed to step in and 
take some action. However, as I said above, I dont know what further help and support may 
have looked like. I mention this here to reinforce why I think all the interest and charges 
should be refunded, if at the end of August 2019 Drafty had taken some further steps to establish what help was proportionate and perhaps verified some of Mr Rs information. Had 
it done so, it wouldve likely seen that Mr R was having financial difficulties. 
Mr R has provided a copy of his credit file, which contains details of credit he had at the time 
(August 2019). Mr R had three credit cards he was servicing, five high-cost credit facilities 
with balances totalling nearly £4,000. In addition, since May 2019, four credit accounts had 
missed payment markers  indicating Mr R was struggling to manage his existing credit 
facilities. Finally, from January 2019, Mr R had repaid a total of 15 payday loans  further 
evidence that Mr R was likely having financial difficulties. 
So whether from a review of how Mr R used the facility or had Drafty taken some, unknown 
further steps in August 2019, whats most important here is that I dont think its fair and 
reasonable for a lender to allow a customer to continue using a facility that has become 
demonstrably unsustainable  instead I think its fair and reasonable to expect a lender to 
help the customer repay what theyve already drawn down and what they already owe.  I 
dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on Mr Rs balance, in 
circumstances where this increased the chances of him being unable to repay, what his 
repayment record suggests he was already struggling to, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately provided 
and appeared affordable for Mr R at the time it was lent, once the point had been reached 
where Drafty accepted the facility was unsustainable, it ought to have exercised forbearance 
in order to allow Mr R to repay what he owed. In these circumstances, it isnt, in my view, fair 
and reasonable for Drafty to have continued charging interest on this balance from 
August 2019 onwards. 
Therefore, given what Drafty said in response to the adjudicators assessment, that the 
whole facility was unsustainable by 30 August 2019, it therefore follows that it isnt just the 
new drawdowns that Mr R couldnt afford. He also couldnt afford to repay what he already 
owed  so actions in failing to offer help to repay this as well as offering further drawdowns 
needs to be reflected in what it does to put things right going forward. 
Thinking about this, and the fact the reasons why Drafty has already agreed to uphold the 
complaint at the point the adjudicator recommended, Ive outlined below what Drafty needs 
to do in order to put things right for Mr R. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Drafty should do the following: 
Remove any unpaid interest, fees and charges added to the balance from 30 August 
2019. 
Treat all payments Mr R has made towards his facility since 30 August 2019 as
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal. If at any point Mr R would 
have been in credit on the credit facility after considering the above, Drafty will need 
to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on these payments, 
from the date they would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
If there is an outstanding principal balance, then Drafty can use any refunds 
calculated as part of the above to repay this. If a balance remains after this then 
Drafty should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr R.
Pay Mr R directly £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by Drafty. 
remove any negative information about the facility from Mr Rs credit file from 
30 August 2019  as Drafty has agreed to do.  *HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Mr R as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman