DRN-2175157
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in declining their claim under a travel insurance policy. They want the claim 
paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had an annual comprehensive travel insurance policy with ERV, starting on 4 
June 2019. They were due to go on holiday in South East Asia on 16 March 2020. Mrs L 
suffered from rheumatoid arthritis, for which she was prescribed immune suppressant drugs. 
She became concerned as the Covid 19 pandemic spread to South East Asia and was 
advised by her consultant and GP not to travel there. Mrs L noted that the terms and 
conditions of the policy wouldnt cover her if she travelled against medical advice and 
cancelled the holiday on 4 February 2020.
Mr and Mrs L made a claim under the travel insurance policy, but it was declined. ERV said 
that the policy only covered cancellations due to circumstances beyond the policy-holders 
control such as unforeseen illness, injury or death of the policy-holder or travelling 
companion. ERV said it didnt cover cancellations in these circumstances as Mrs L was well 
and only cancelling due to the pandemic, which wasnt an insured event.
Mr and Mrs L complained to us and pointed out that ERV was effectively saying that they 
should travel against medical advice. The investigators view was that while Mr and Mrs L 
cancelled their holiday before the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) issued its 
advice not to travel (and the policys cover was limited in any event), ERV had acted unfairly 
and unreasonably in declining the claim. He pointed out that the policy didnt give cover if a 
policyholder travelled against medical advice, and Mrs L had been advised by her consultant 
not to go on the holiday because her immune system was impaired by the drugs she was 
prescribed. The investigator said that the fair and reasonable outcome was for ERV to pay 
the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, together with interest.
ERV disagreed. It said if Mrs L had contacted it before cancelling, it wouldve told her to 
travel and she wouldve been covered. ERV said Mrs L didnt want to travel and this wasnt 
covered. It was adamant that Mrs L wasnt ill and wasnt covered to make a claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to ERV, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that ERV has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy strictly doesnt cover Mr and Mrs L for cancellation in these circumstances. It only 
covers FCO advice not to travel somewhere due to earthquakes, fire, flood or hurricanes, or 
if the policy-holders are unable to travel due to their health or other reasons set out within 
the policy. It doesnt cover cancellations due to health concerns relating to a pandemic.
But while insurers can set out the risks they will and wont cover, they still need to act fairly 
and reasonably when considering claims, even those not legally covered by the policy. In 
Mr and Mrs Ls case, they were advised by a consultant that Mrs L shouldnt travel to South 
East Asia due to the effect of the drugs she was prescribed and the risk she faced due to the 
pandemic. ERV saw fit to have a general exclusion within the policy saying that if a 
policyholder made a claim Arising from you acting against the advice of a doctor., there 
would be no cover at all.
For Mr and Mrs L, this exclusion put them in an impossible position. Either they went on the 
holiday against medical advice and werent covered by the policy, or they followed the 
medical advice and cancelled the holiday but received no payment from ERV. This isnt fair 
or reasonable. ERV says Mrs L simply didnt want to go on holiday, but this ignores the clear 
medical advice she received and the effect of the drugs she was taking  Mrs L would have 
travelled against medical advice if she had acted as ERV suggests she shouldve.
Putting things right
ERV should pay Mr and Mrs Ls claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy, together with 8% simple interest a year from the date of claim until the date of 
payment. I note that the provider has refunded some of the costs of the trip but the 
outstanding amount is irrecoverable and this is the claim Mr and Mrs L wishes to be paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and ERGO Reiseversicherung AG should pay 
Mr and Mrs Ls claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, together 
with interest as outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman