DRN-3105136
The complaint
Ms N has complained about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with a claim under her 
home insurance policy.
All references to AXA include agents acting on its behalf. Ms N is represented in this case 
but, for ease, I will only refer to Ms N, who is the policyholder.
  
What happened
Ms Ns home was burgled. So, she contacted AXA to make a claim. AXA investigated the 
claim and declined it. It said some items were damaged due to wear and tear or a lack of 
substantiation. The gate, a games console and a handbag werent covered under the policy 
because the settlement figure for these items was less than the policy excess.
When Ms N complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She 
said it was reasonable for AXA to decline most of the claim. However, she said a necklace 
and some bangles should be covered as part of the claim because Ms N had provided 
evidence that she had paid less than £1,500 for them, which meant they didnt need to be 
specified.
As AXA didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 14 September 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Following a burglary, Ms N claimed for damage to her property and stolen items. As part of 
this, Ms N said her kitchen units and door were damaged during the burglary. When AXA 
inspected the damage, it took various photos of the kitchen cupboards, which showed that 
the laminate had come off some of the doors, rusted hinges and that the doors were missing 
from two cupboards. Based on the evidence available to AXA, I think it was reasonable for it 
to decline that part of the claim on the basis that damage was due to wear and tear.
Ms N also said AXA should replace the back door. She said it was damaged during the 
burglary and that AXAs contractor had caused further damage to it. When AXAs contractor 
first visited, they replaced the lock on the door and also had to alter the hinges so the door 
would lock, as the contractor said the door wasnt properly aligned. Ms N said there wasnt 
previously an issue with the hinges and that any damage was the result of the burglary. The 
contractor also took photos and provided AXA with an assessment of the condition of the 
door. 
When AXA spoke to Ms N, it explained there wasnt evidence to show the jemmy marks on 
the door were caused during the burglary and it said the condition of the door hadnt 
worsened as a result of the incident. It said replacing the door would be betterment. Having 
looked at what AXA considered, I think it was reasonable for it to decide that it had dealt with 
the damage that was a direct result of the burglary and that the other issues were pre-
existing. So, I also think it was reasonable that it didnt replace the back door as part of the 
claim.
Ms N also said the contractor caused further damage to the door. I havent seen any 
evidence to support this, so I dont currently intend to require AXA to do anything further on 
this issue.
Ms N also made a claim for a phone. AXA turned this down due to lack of substantiation. I 
havent seen anything to show Ms N disagreed with this, so I havent looked at this any 
further.
Ms N also claimed for a stolen necklace and some bangles. The policy booklet said:
When taking out a policy, You are asked the amount it would take to completely rebuild 
Your Home, Outbuildings or replace Your Contents, specified items or general possessions 
(on a new for old basis), the sum insured or, for individual items, their worth.
Ms N initially seemed to claim for scrap gold. She then claimed for a necklace she said 
formed part of a set specified on her policy as a gold necklace and earrings set with a value 
of £5,000. When Ms N provided documents to support her claim, this listed the necklace and 
the amount she had paid for it. Ms N explained that the earrings were bought separately as a 
gift and formed a set with the necklace because they were stored together. 
When AXA declined the claim for the necklace, it told Ms N:
The necklace specified on your policy schedule is not the necklace that was reported stolen 
as the necklace stolen was bought as an individual item and not as a set.
I asked AXA for more information about why this part of the claim was declined. It said:
The claim for the stolen necklace was declined on the basis that it couldnt be confirmed 
that the necklace specified in the policy was the same one that was stolen. This is because it 
wasnt purchased as a set but purchased separately.
It also said:
The earrings are not on the  list [provided by the shop that sold Ms N the necklace] as 
these were brought separately as a gift on the anniversary, they were not a true set, as in 
made by same designer to be worn together but the [policyholder] kept them together in the 
same box [with the necklace] and therefore called them a set.
I read the policy documents and couldnt find a definition of a set. I asked AXA whether it told 
policyholders what it meant by a set, but it didnt reply. AXA also seems to be relying on two 
different definitions of what a set is. One is that the items were bought at the same time. The 
other is that the items were made by the same designer to be worn together. I note that 
these definitions potentially contradict each other, given that it would be possible to buy 
items at different times made by the same designer to be worn together. AXA also now 
appears to accept that the stolen necklace and the earrings were stored together and that 
Ms A called them a set.
Given that I havent seen any evidence that AXA made policyholders aware of what it meant 
by a set, Ive looked at the dictionary definition. This said:
Number of things or persons that belong together as essentially similar or as 
complementary to each other.Ive also looked at how Ms N described the necklace and earrings and why she thought they 
were a set. She told AXA:
 the necklace was purchased separately to the [earrings]. The earring was actually a gift 
from my in-laws on my wedding anniversary. The reason why i insured them as a set is 
because they was mostly kept together and also matched hence the purchase of the 
necklace, however I normally wear the earrings and avoid
wearing the necklace due to weight and value and thats why the earrings was not stolen 
and the necklace was. And my purchase history  will also show that I have never 
purchased earrings at anytime but the only reason I insured them both as a set because 
majority of the time they was kept together.
Based on what Ms N has said, in my view she was describing a set. Ms N said the earrings 
and necklace matched and that was the reason she bought the necklace. She said she also 
stored them together. I also asked AXA what consideration it gave to Ms Ns explanation, but 
it didnt reply.
AXA previously told Ms N that it didnt think the stolen necklace and the specified necklace 
were necessarily the same item. But, AXA now seems to accept that the stolen necklace and 
the earrings were the specified items on the policy, although not a true set. So, this means 
the stolen necklace was insured as a specified item. As a result, I currently intend to say that 
AXA should pay the claim for the necklace. 
There are only limited details available about the stolen necklace, which is mainly Ms Ns 
description of it and the receipt from the shop where she bought it. The receipt described it 
as a fancy necklace and gave a price of £2,100, but that Ms N paid £1,250 due to a 
discount. Given the policy required Ms N to insure items at the replacement cost, I think AXA 
should pay £2,100 to settle this part of the claim, as that is the only evidence Ive seen to 
show the value of the necklace. 
AXA also declined a claim for a set of bangles. The receipt for the bangles showed their full 
price at the time of purchase was £1,600. However, again due to a discount, Ms N paid 
£1,155. The policy said it didnt provide cover for high risk items worth £1,500 or more 
unless they were specified. The set of bangles was valued at £1,600 at the time of purchase, 
so they should have been specified. However, the policy booklet also said:
We allow up to 10% leeway on the threshold for specified items if the value is uncertain. For 
example, if an antique clock is found to be worth £1,600 when You make a claim, We will 
consider paying under Our Contents cover even though We require You to specify High Risk 
Items worth more than £1,500.
I can see from the internal records that AXA did consider whether the 10% leeway should 
apply to the bangles, but it was decided that the replacement cost would exceed the limit at 
which an item needed to be specified. However, I havent seen any attempt to calculate the 
value of the bangles. So, the only value available is the £1,600 specified by the shop. £1,600 
is the specific amount given in the policy to reassure policyholders that leeway might be 
shown and AXA doesnt seem to have attempted to put a replacement value on the bangles 
to demonstrate that the set of bangles was above the policy limit. So, I currently intend to 
say that AXA should use £1,600 as the value and as this falls within the 10% leeway that it 
should pay the claim for the set of bangles as well. 
AXA accepted that a gate had been damaged and a game console and bag had been stolen 
as part of the burglary. However, it declined to deal with these parts of the claim because the 
excesses were more than the cost of replacing the items. Having looked at the costs 
involved and the excesses, I can see why AXA reached this decision. However, given that I think AXA should pay more of the claim, I intend to say that AXA should consider whether 
these parts of the claim can now be paid, given that an excess will be now payable for the 
part of the claim for the jewellery.
I also intend to say that AXA should pay interest on the full settlement amount because Ms N 
lost use of that money.
I have also thought about compensation. Ms N has described how unfair she found AXAs 
decision to be and also that she didnt feel listened to. Based on this and looking at all that 
happened in this case, I intend to say that AXA should pay £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 14 October 2021. Both parties responded before that date accepting my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision.
  
Putting things right
AXA must pay £3,700 to settle the claim for the necklace and set of bangles and reconsider 
the parts of the claim for the gate, games console and bag to see if any of these items can 
now be paid. It must pay interest on the full settlement amount. AXA must also pay £200 
compensation.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay £3,700 to settle the claim for the necklace and the set of bangles.
Reconsider the parts of the claim for the gate, games console and bag to see if any of 
these items can now be paid.
Pay 8% simple interest on the full settlement amount from the date on which the claim 
was made to the date on which the claim is settled.
Pay £200 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman