DRN-4453275
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited dealt with a claim he made under 
his home insurance policy.
Reference to Fairmead includes agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Mr S got in touch with Fairmead to make a claim for damage to his roof, inside his 
property, and to a boundary wall, following bad weather.
Fairmead declined the claim for the boundary wall. It indicated it accepted the other 
claims on the basis they were caused by a storm, but said they wouldnt be paid in 
full as Mr S was underinsured.
Mr S was unhappy with this and referred a complaint to this Service. In January 2023 
Fairmead agreed to pay for a report about the rebuild cost of Mr S home to consider 
the underinsurance point further. And to pay £200 compensation for delays and 
communication problems during the claim. Based on the evidence available at the 
time, our investigator didnt think Fairmead should cover the boundary wall.
Based on the report about the rebuild cost, Fairmead accepted Mr S wasnt 
underinsured. It settled the claim for storm damage to the roof damage in full. But it 
said it wouldnt pay anything toward the internal damage as it was pre-existing and 
not caused by the storm.
Two further complaints arose and Fairmead responded to them in February and 
August 2023. In the first, Fairmead accepted there had been further delays and 
offered £150 compensation. And in the second, Fairmead said its loss adjuster had 
inspected the internal damage and said the damage was pre-existing. It also said Mr 
S hadnt taken steps to carry out any kind of temporary repair to the internal damage.
Our investigator considered the two further complaints. She thought Fairmead should 
cover the internal damage and pay a further £300 compensation, making £450 
compensation in total for the two recent complaints.
Fairmead didnt agree to this and reiterated its earlier position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst underinsurance was previously in dispute, it isnt any longer, so I wont need to 
consider that point. Similarly, as the roof damage has been covered in full, I wont 
need to consider that either. And the boundary wall point isnt currently in dispute.
That leaves two points for me to consider  should Fairmead cover the internal 
damage and how much compensation should it pay for the way its handled the 
claim?
I dont think Fairmead has been clear with Mr S about its view on the internal 
damage. Originally it gave the impression it was covered, subject to underinsurance 
reducing the settlement. Then, once it accepted there was no underinsurance, it said 
the internal damage wasnt covered  some eighteen months after Mr S made the 
claim and based on a single loss adjuster report it had had for around a year.
I bear in mind the inspection on which the report is based took place six months after 
the damage occurred and the claim was made. It noted storm winds had blown tiles 
from the roof, leaving holes in the roof. It said Mr S had shown it damaged plaster 
due to rainwater ingress and there was also pre-existing damp. It also noted that 
some of the property had bare floorboards and walls stripped back to the brickwork in 
places. But the report says very little about the nature or cause of the internal 
damage. It doesnt explain how it reached the conclusion that there was pre-existing 
damp, what might have caused it, or what impact the condition of the property had on 
the claim. So I dont find it very persuasive.
A number of photos were provided alongside the report, but theyre not annotated 
and no comment is made about them in the report  so its not clear what the loss 
adjuster was trying to show with the photos. I cant see any clear signs of longer term 
water damage, such that it was unlikely to have happened as a result of the storm.
Its not in doubt the roof was damaged by storm, leaving holes for rainwater to enter 
and cause damage. So it seems likely that at least some of the internal water 
damage was a result of the storm. Whilst I cant rule out the possibility that some of 
the water damage was pre-existing, Fairmead hasnt provided any persuasive 
evidence to show that it was. And Mr S says there wasnt any damp prior to the 
storm. So Im not satisfied Fairmead has shown any of the water damage was pre-
existing and/or can be excluded from the claim.
Mr S accepts that some of the property was going to be refurbished prior to the 
damage. So its reasonable for Fairmead to take that into account when it thinks 
about the scope of repairs required to put right the storm damage. But just because 
some of the property had stripped floors and/or walls, doesnt mean it cant have 
suffered water damage. So Im not satisfied it wouldnt be fair to decline the claim.
Fairmead says Mr S failed to take steps to mitigate his position and carry out 
temporary repairs. However, Mr S says he asked Fairmead to fund temporary repairs 
 but it didnt agree to do so. And Im not sure what Fairmead reasonably expected 
Mr S to do. Fairmead had the opportunity to inspect the damage promptly and/or set 
out steps for Mr S to take. It didnt do that, instead it indicated the claim was covered 
 and then around eighteen months later decided otherwise. It took a similar amount 
of time for it to pay for the roof repairs. In these circumstances, Im not satisfied it 
would be fair to hold any lack of mitigation work against Mr S.
To put things right, Fairmead should accept the claim for the internal damage caused 
by, or resulting from, water ingress following the storm.
Fairmead has offered £150 compensation for the way its handled the claim since the first complaint. Since then, its caused avoidable delays and its communication has at 
times been unclear, repetitive, and hasnt dealt with all the points Mr S raised. This 
has happened over a prolonged period of time, despite the claim being a relatively 
straightforward and low value one. This has clearly caused unnecessary distress, 
inconvenience and frustration to Mr S.
To put this right, Im satisfied a total of £450 compensation is reasonable in the 
circumstances. This is separate and in addition to the £200 compensation paid for 
the first complaint. If Fairmead has already paid the £150 it offered in February 2023, 
it need only pay the remaining £300.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Accept the claim for the internal damage.
Pay a total of £450 compensation*.
*Fairmead must pay the award within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the award from the 
deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman