DRN-2166154
The complaint
Mr W complains that Close Brothers Limited didnt properly explain a hire purchase 
agreement he entered into. In particular, he wasnt aware that the outstanding balance on 
his previous agreement had been added to the credit provided. 
What happened
In August 2017 Mr W took out a hire purchase agreement for a car from Close Brothers. 
Hed identified the car he wanted at a dealership, M, and had agreed to pay the non-
negotiable asking price of just under £17,600.  
Mr W has explained that he wanted to reduce his monthly payments from his previous 
agreement. M, acting as introducer of Close Brothers, discussed the monthly payments and 
drew up a hire purchase agreement for Mr W to read through. He says that he was left with 
the documents on a computer, but that nobody went through the paperwork with him. 
In particular, Mr W says there was no discussion with him of the negative equity from his 
previous agreement. The value of his previous car exceeded the amount due under that 
agreement by around £6,000, so Close Brothers and M arranged for it to be paid and added 
that amount to the credit he took out under the new hire purchase agreement. 
Mr W complained that this hadnt been explained, but Close Brothers didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. Had the payment not been made as part of the new finance arrangements, 
Mr W would have had to pay it himself.    
Mr W referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He thought however that Mr W would have been aware of the cash price of the 
car and of the amount he was taking on credit under the hire purchase agreement. The 
amount of credit he was taking was clearly more than the cash price of the car. He didnt 
think that Close Brothers had treated Mr W unfairly. He commented however that, if Mr W 
was having difficulty making payments, hed expect Close Brothers to treat him positively 
and sympathetically. He also noted that Mr W had raised concerns about the mileage limit 
on the hire purchase agreement. Whilst that hadnt formed part of the complaint, the 
investigator noted that the hire purchase agreement included a mileage limit. 
Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive indicated, Mr W had selected the car from M and agreed a price of just under 
£17,600. The sales invoice recorded however that the amount to be financed was just over 
£6,000 more. Close Brothers also produced a document headed Pre-contract Credit 
Information, which said that the cash price for the car was £23,675.11  that is, just over 
£6,000 more than the cash price on Ms invoice. That figure was reflected too in the hire 
purchase agreement, both as the cash price of the goods and the total amount of credit. I 
note that the hire purchase agreement also set out the monthly payments, duration of the 
agreement, the total amount he would have to repay and other details Id expect to see. 
I do accept however that none of the finance documents Ive seen  including the invoice, 
hire purchase agreement and pre-contract information  says expressly that the amount of 
credit includes the shortfall from Mr Ws previous agreement. I do believe however that it 
was clear that there was a difference between the invoice price of the car and the cash price 
set out in the finance documents provided by Close Brothers.
Mr W says that the difference in the figures wasnt explained to him. He was however given 
an opportunity to check the documents before agreeing to the finance arrangements. Given 
that one of his main motives was to reduce his monthly payments, I think it likely that he took 
that opportunity. If there was anything he didnt understand or which needed further 
clarification, he could have raised it. I dont therefore accept Mr Ws claim that he was misled 
about the nature of the finance agreement or the amount of credit he was taking on.
I note what Mr W has said about the difficulty hes now having in making payments but 
would simply endorse what the investigator said  namely, that Id expect Close Brothers to 
act positively and sympathetically in the circumstances. Im not persuaded thought that Mr W 
was treated unfairly at the time of supply of the car.            
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Close Brothers Limited to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Ws complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman