DRN-4209264
The complaint
This complaint is about a lifetime mortgage the late Mr and Mrs S had with Pearl Group 
Management Services Limited. Mr S executor has said they were both vulnerable at the 
time of the sale, the interest charged was inflated compared to other interest rates available 
and they were never offered a review of their arrangement. The executor explained the rate 
at which the mortgage debt increased caused Mr and Mrs S anxiety.
In settlement of the complaint the executor would like Pearl to reduce the interest charged 
on the mortgage to a fair rate. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out their lifetime mortgage with Lender N in 2006. The mortgage was 
arranged with a fixed interest rate of 6.39%.
Following that lender ceasing to trade the loan was transferred to Lender P and then again 
to Pearl in 2018. 
Mrs S passed away and the mortgage converted to being in just Mr S name in 2020. Mr S 
died in 2021.
At the end of 2021 an annual statement was sent to the executor. This detailed the amount 
owing on the mortgage and the interest that had been charged each month and in total in the 
preceding year. It included the statement May we also remind you that you may be able to 
obtain from the open market a replacement lifetime mortgage product, or appropriate 
alternative product, with lower interest rates. This was the first annual statement that 
included such information.
The executor contacted Pearl in January 2022 to inform it of Mr S death. When she did so, 
she expressed shock at the interest rate that had been charged on the mortgage and that no 
review had been offered. 
Probate for Mr S estate was issued in August 2022 and a copy was provided to Pearl in 
November 2022. It then dealt with the executors concerns as a complaint, and it issued its 
response on 2 December 2022. Pearl explained that as the mortgage was arranged with a 
fixed interest rate, the lender was not required to review its suitability on an ongoing basis. It 
was required to keep the borrower up to date with the status of the mortgage and this was 
done by providing annual statements. It was also confirmed that if Mr S had been unhappy 
with the interest rate he could have re-mortgaged with no penalty. Pearl also commented 
that Mr and Mrs S would have been fully aware of the interest rate when they took the 
mortgage out.
The executor was not satisfied with the response and questioned Pearl further. Pearl 
explained the statements it sends out on lifetime mortgages contain the information the 
regulator requires of it. Prior to the 2021 statement being produced there had been no 
requirement for it to highlight that borrowers who thought the mortgage was no longer right 
for them had the option to look for an alternative mortgage or a product with a lower interest 
rate. It confirmed that it didnt offer mortgage advice and it was not required to, and so told 
its borrowers they could go to the open market. Pearl said Mr S would have been told to 
seek independent advice if he had asked it for assistance. 
The executor remained unhappy with Pearls response and referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She was satisfied the interest charged during the term of the mortgage had been 
correct and there had been no requirement for Pearl to offer Mr and Mrs S new interest 
rates.
The executor didnt accept the investigators view of the complaint and asked to take it 
further. She said Mr S was a frail 93-year-old, but she believed he would have taken action if 
hed realised he was entitled to have the mortgage reviewed. She reiterated the interest rate 
on the mortgage in no way reflected prevailing rates around the time of his death. The 
executor said that it was scandalous that the ability to remortgage for a better interest rate 
was not highlighted to older, vulnerable people. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is initially appropriate to confirm our remit; we are not the regulator of financial 
businesses. This means we dont set the rules for how a financial business sets up its 
internal processes, what information it has to provide to its customers and when, or how it 
operates generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we are impartial, 
and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint, or when we 
have enough information on file to decide it.
Mr and Mrs S took the mortgage out in 2006; sadly, both borrowers have since died. The 
terms of the mortgage provided that no monthly repayments were required. The intention 
was that the mortgage would become repayable when the last surviving borrower goes into 
full-time nursing care or after their death. It could be repaid voluntarily before either of those 
events had happened, but then an early repayment charge might be payable.
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. The interest rate is set at the beginning of the term. I would comment that in 
general interest rates on lifetime mortgages tend to be slightly higher than the prevailing 
fixed rates available for general residential mortgages. This is because normal mortgage 
rates are only fixed for a relatively short period of time  usually between two and five years 
 whereas the interest rate on a lifetime mortgage may be in place for several decades. 
During that time interest rates can vary significantly; both up and down. All of this means that 
if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a significant balance to be repaid. The 
fixed interest rate means that the borrower can more easily understand the implications of 
the mortgage and how it will affect the value of their estate after their death.
I would firstly respond to the executors comments about the interest rate being inflated and 
that it in no way reflected prevailing interest rates. It was the case at the time of Mr S death 
that mortgage interest rates had generally fallen to record lows. However, the interest rates 
at the time Mr and Mrs S took out their mortgage were nothing like as low as they 
subsequently became. Indeed, interest rates being offered on lifetime mortgages in the years immediately after they took theirs were generally higher than the 6.39% they agreed 
to. The fact that general rates subsequently dropped doesnt mean that Pearl did anything 
wrong in administering the mortgage in line with its terms and conditions. 
In relation to the mortgage being reviewed; it has only been in recent years that it has been 
considered something that would be potentially viable for customers to do. I would explain 
that a lifetime mortgage customer wanting a lower interest rate on their mortgage is not as 
simple as it is for a standard residential mortgage. To have a lower interest rate, a lifetime 
customer would have to seek new advice and remortgage. This process would involve the 
cost of the advice and application to the lender, which can amount to thousands of pounds, 
and often the payment of an ERC, which can in some cases be tens of thousands of pounds. 
As such, the costs of a remortgage can be substantive and until the particularly low interest 
rates of recent years, those costs were often prohibitive or meant any new mortgage applied 
for would not be financially viable. 
Until the FCA issued new guidance in 2021 (due to lifetime mortgage rates decreasing to, 
relatively speaking, very low levels) there was no requirement for a lender to highlight that a 
consumer might be able to remortgage for a lower interest rate. Before that it was generally 
considered that a borrower who was unhappy with the interest rate they were paying would 
raise the matter themselves, either by seeking advice or complaining to the lender or 
whoever sold the mortgage to them. As such, I cant find that Pearl was in the wrong for not 
highlighting to Mr and Mrs S that they could look into re-mortgaging their home at an earlier 
date. This is especially so, given that it would have been unable to provide Mr and Mrs S 
with any assistance.  
I think its important for me to recognise the executors strength of feeling about this matter. 
She has provided detailed submissions to support this complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I am not persuaded that Pearl did anything wrong in its 
administration of the mortgage or communications with Mr and Mrs S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 July 2023. 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman