DRN-1455887
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he bought using a credit card provided by Barclays 
Bank UK PLC (Barclays) to whom he has made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75). He also says the vehicle was misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr K made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
the quality of the car
The car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. The relevant law says the 
quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the 
other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr K. The car here 
was about eleven years old and had already completed about 58,000 miles when it was 
supplied. So, I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to be completely fault free: 
thered be likely to be some wear and tear.
The relevant legislation allowed Mr K to reject the vehicle if it could be shown there was a 
fault with it in the first 30 days. It seems there was a fault with the car because the battery 
was flat, and it had some gearbox problems and a failed blind. I also think its clear that Mr K 
asked to reject the car within 30 days. He took receipt of the car on 2 January 2019 and he 
emailed the dealership in mid-January 2019 asking to do reject it. 
But its clear that hed already accepted repairs to the vehicle and the relevant legislation 
says that where that is the case the right to reject falls away.
But it wouldnt be fair for Mr K to pay for repairs on the car when it seems clear it was faulty 
when supplied. The business should accept those costs. Barclays have been prepared to 
pay for the battery and the repair to the blind and they said the gearbox issue was covered 
by the warranty. Theyve offered to pay Mr K £1330.50 to cover the cost of the repairs and I 
think thats reasonable. Im not asking them to take any further action.
Im not persuaded that the additional faults Mr K complains of were present at the point of 
supply. I say that because the independent inspector, who is an expert in these matters, has 
said so and has explained that these electrical issues, relating to the Signal Acquisition 
Module (SAM), could have occurred at any time. Im also persuaded its unlikely these 
issues were present at the beginning because they werent referred to the dealership for 
some time. 
misrepresentation
If Mr K was told something that led him to enter into a finance agreement, he wouldnt 
otherwise have entered into, then I may think the deal was misrepresented to him.
Here Mr K has explained that the advert said the car had a full-service history. He disputes 
this and says there was no service completed in 2017 and only a partial service completed in 
2018. Theres not been a lot of information provided to support Mr Ks claim.
Ive considered whether, if I had enough information to support Mr Ks assertions, I would 
think the business should take some additional action. But Im not persuaded they should as 
I am not persuaded that, If Mr K knew there was a gap in the service history, he would have 
rejected the deal. 
This was an eleven-year old car and there would have been many services that would have 
been called for. I think, if the service history was important to Mr K, he would have wanted to 
scrutinise it in detail before his purchase. He appears to have known the information was 
available through an authorised dealership and I think its most likely he would therefore 
have sourced this information at inception of the deal.
So, Im not persuaded Barclays have been unreasonable when rejecting his claim that the 
car was misrepresented to him and overall Im not asking them to take any further action.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman