DRN-2623650
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr S are unhappy that their claim with Society of Lloyds hasnt been settled.
Their policy is provided by a syndicate, Equity Red Star. But for ease, Ill only refer to Society
of Lloyds, as theyre ultimately responsible for the complaint.
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision:
Mrs G and Mr Ss motorhome was stolen in January 2019. A few months later, they 
were told their claim had been accepted and they were offered a choice of a cash 
settlement or a new motorhome, in line with their policys terms.
Very shortly after, Mrs G and Mr S discovered that their motor home had been found 
in Spain. Society of Lloyds along with Mrs G and Mr S have since worked to bring it 
back, so an assessment can be made on whether its repairable or a total loss. I 
understand that, to date, thats not been successful.
Mrs G and Mr S are unhappy with the time and effort its taking, as well as the 
continuing costs of bringing this claim to a resolution.
I sent my provisional findings on 22 February 2021. I explained that, while I accept 
that some of the delays were outside of Society of Lloyds control, it has an 
obligation to indemnify Mrs G and Mr S under the terms of the policy. And given that 
it has been around two years since the loss, I thought they ought to offer a cash 
settlement, in line with policys terms, alongside 8% simple interest per year for the 
time theyve been out of pocket.  
Mrs G and Mr S didnt have anything further to add. Society of Lloyds disagreed with 
my findings. They provided an update on how the motorhome is repairable and its 
planned repatriation to the UK. They further explained how the delays were outside 
of its control and how theres no agreement in the policys terms for how long a claim 
of this nature should take to settle. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not changed my mind about the outcome of this complaint. 
As my provisional findings explained, I accept the delays arent entirely Society of Lloyds 
fault. But I dont think that relieves it of its obligations to indemnify Mrs G and Mr S for their 
loss. 
I acknowledge that the policys terms dont set an expectation for how long claims take to 
settle. But all insurers have an obligation to settle claims promptly and fairly. Of course, that 
will require a period of investigation  and whats reasonable will change depending on the 
nature of the claim. But I think there does come a point where pursuing one way to settle the 
claim takes so long (and is uncertain as to how long it will continue to take) that its not been 
handled promptly and fairly. Im satisfied thats the situation here, given that its now two 
years since the loss and, while I acknowledge progress has been made, there are still 
hurdles to overcome to bring the motorhome back to the UK. It follows that I think Society of 
Lloyds ought to have brought this claim to a resolution another way. At this stage, I think the 
fair and sensible way to do this is with a cash settlement. 
So, while Ive considered Society of Lloyds response carefully, it hasnt changed my mind 
that this complaint should be upheld. For completeness, Ive explained my reasoning again 
below: 
I accept that bringing the motorhome back to UK isnt a straightforward matter  and 
that the delays are somewhat outside of Society of Lloyds control.
But ultimately it has an obligation to Mrs G and Mr S to indemnify them against 
certain perils. Here, its not disputed that theres valid theft claim. But two years from 
that peril, the matter hasnt been settled. I dont think thats reasonable.
It follows that, regardless of whether Society of Lloyds is to blame for the delays, 
given its obligations under the policy, I think it needs to bear the loss here.
Society of Lloyds submit that it hasnt done so because it cant assess whether the 
motorhome is repairable or a total loss. But just because it cant assess repairs, 
doesnt mean that it cant settle the claim. The policy explains it can settle a claim by 
either: paying for the damage to be repaired, paying an amount of cash to replace 
the item or replacing the item. Given that repairs havent happened in a reasonable 
timeframe, it seems fair that Society of Lloyds should settle the matter another way. 
Because its been so long since the loss, I dont think a replacement is a sensible 
way forward. Instead, I think Society of Lloyds should offer a cash settlement in line 
with the policys terms  to bring this matter to a neat conclusion.
In settling this claim, Society of Lloyds can take ownership of the motorhome  and 
when its recovered, use it to offset their losses as they wish.
Society of Lloyds should also add 8% simple interest per year to any cash 
settlement, to account for the time Mrs G and Mr S have been out of pocket.
Ive considered the additional expenses Mrs G and Mr S have raised, but Im 
satisfied that the additional interest award fairly accounts for their losses. Thats 
bearing in mind how things like holidays are difficult to compensate for, unless its 
clear theyre like-for-like. And in any event, I consider that the interest award reflects 
their loss of use.
Im also mindful that matters like tax and MOTs are part and parcel of owning a 
vehicle. So, should things have been put right as they ought to have been, Mrs G and 
Mr S wouldve always been responsible for such costs (albeit on their new 
motorhome). So its not something Id expect an insurer to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs G and Mr Ss complaint and order Society of 
Lloyds to:Settle Mrs G and Mr Ss claim by offering a cash settlement, subject to the policys 
terms and conditions.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on any cash settlement, from the date of the loss to 
the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman