DRN-2802499
The complaint
 Mr J is unhappy Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) blocked a number of payments 
he attempted to make to purchase car parts, during a period of approximately three hours.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
                                         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers 
accounts safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. As Mr J is aware, they have 
developed sophisticated systems to help them do so. Sometimes they identify and 
block legitimate payments that a customer wants to take place. That can cause 
distress and inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they 
have acted incorrectly.
Mr Js request that Nationwide change their security procedures, to make them 
easier for their customers and more efficient is admirable, but not something our 
service is able to direct them to do. This is because we do not interfere with how a 
building society, runs their business or the policy decisions they make. We are not 
the regulator. As a dispute resolution service, our role is to decide if Nationwide have 
followed their procedures and, in doing so, if they have treated Mr J fairly. 
I appreciate that having a number of payments blocked on the same day would have 
been very frustrating for Mr J, especially as he was working towards a deadline. I 
also agree with our investigator, that increased communication from Nationwide may 
have been helpful under the circumstances. That said, the restrictions Nationwide put 
in place, were ultimately done to protect Mr Js account, as his payments were 
flagged by their system as potential security concerns. So, Im satisfied Nationwide 
acted fairly by relying on their terms and conditions, and internal security procedures 
to block Mr Js transactions in the way that they did. 
As Nationwide have now offered to pay Mr J £50 compensation for the trouble and 
upset this matter caused him, I think this is a reasonable resolution to the complaint. I 
know Mr J feels strongly that this amount should be increased to £100. However, 
having carefully considered everything thats happened, and the timeframe involved, 
I see no reasonable grounds for doing so. 
My final decision
 I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr J £50 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman