DRN-3154159
The complaint
K complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) gave them an unreasonably low settlement offer for 
their vehicle after it was stolen.
What happened
K owned several company vehicles and insured them under a commercial vehicle insurance 
policy underwritten by QIC. In May 2021, one of the vehicles was stolen, and K made a 
claim on their insurance. QIC offered K £28,866, less the policy excess, to settle the claim.
K didnt accept this. They said the vehicle was worth a lot more than QICs offer. They 
provided an advert showing a lower specification vehicle a year older than theirs on sale for 
over £35,000. They believed a realistic offer should be made in the region of £60,000. 
QIC reviewed its valuation and  after further exchanges with K  increased this to 
£32,200.05. It offered K this, less the excess, as final settlement. QICs senior engineer 
explained how it reached this figure.
K was still unhappy with this so brought a complaint to this service. They said, in summary:
They couldnt replace the vehicle for the amount QIC offered.
Thered been an unprecedented increase in the value of second-hand vehicles. 
Using trade guides isnt the fairest way of valuing second-hand vehicles. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ks complaint should be upheld. She checked QICs 
offer against trade guide valuations and found it was consistent with these valuations. She 
thought QICs offer was reasonable.
K disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 2.2 of Ks policy explains how QIC will settle a claim. This says it will pay the market 
value of the vehicle, less the policy excess. Market value is defined as: the cost of 
replacing your vehicle with another of a similar make, model, age, mileage and condition as 
at the time of the loss or damage, up to the value stated in your policy schedule.
QIC says it used three trade guides to value the vehicle. These guides provided market 
valuations of between £28,229 and £35,255. QICs final settlement offer was the average of 
these.
Our investigator has explained this services approach to vehicle valuations. We dont look to 
value the vehicle ourselves but instead we consider whether the insurers offer is 
reasonable. To do this, we first look at trade guides, which are particularly useful for valuing 
second-hand vehicles because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely 
sales figures. The guides also consider other factors, such as the vehicles condition. 
In this case, Im satisfied that QICs offer was reasonable. It referred to three recognised 
trade guides for valuations based on the same make, model, age, mileage, and condition of 
Ks vehicle on the date it was stolen. It provided us with copies of these valuations. As our 
investigator explained, weve checked the trade guides and found either the same or very 
similar valuations.
I understand Ks argument about recent increases to the value of second-hand vehicles. 
While we can consider adverts, generally the final sales price will be lower than the 
advertised price. Thats why we first look to the trade guides, as these provide stronger 
evidence of retail selling prices. And Im satisfied that K valued the vehicle fairly at the time it 
was stolen, as per the policy terms. 
Section 2 (page 16) of the policy booklet says VAT isnt covered by the policy. I think thats 
right. If the policyholder is VAT registered and only uses the vehicle for business they can 
usually claim the VAT back through their HMRC return. That means the actual loss suffered 
is the cost of the vehicle excluding VAT, so the insurer doesnt need to add VAT to the 
settlement. I also note that QICs offer  when adjusted for VAT  is in line with the 
comparable vehicle K highlighted and the advertised selling price of a similar vehicle found 
by our investigator.
For the reasons above, Im satisfied that QICs settlement offer was fair. I wont be asking it 
to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman