DRN-2525584
The complaint
Mr S complains Landmark Mortgages Limited have placed incorrect information about 
missed mortgage payments on his credit file.
What happened
Mr S was looking to re-mortgage and discovered he had late payments recorded on his 
credit file by Landmark. He didnt understand why, because hed been making his monthly 
mortgage payments on time, so asked Landmark to explain whatd happened.
Initially, Landmark said on the phone on 4 June 2020 the arrears dated from 2017, but then 
when following up in writing on 5 June 2020 Landmark clarified the issues actually related to 
payments not made for May 2020. Mr S maintained hed made his monthly mortgage 
payments, so complained to Landmark about this.
They replied to the complaint and explained Mr S had been making payments to an old 
account. Mr Ss mortgage was transferred from another entity in July 2016 and Landmark 
say they wrote to him at the time to tell him about the new account details. They said they 
could see hed continued to use the old account details, and the monthly payments were 
transferred from the old account, to the new account. Landmark added theyd also written to 
him in April 2020 to tell him he was making payments to an old account, and said theyd told 
him in this letter theyd no longer be able to accept payments made into this account. 
Landmark added that any payments made to the wrong account since May 2020 would be 
returned to the originating bank  and as a result of this hed missed payments from May, 
June, July and August 2020.
Landmark did acknowledge theyd made a mistake on 4 June 2020 on the phone when 
telling Mr S his arrears dated back to 2017. But said its Mr Ss responsibility to ensure the 
correspondence address is up to date, and that he makes payments to the appropriate 
account. Because of this, they wouldnt uphold his complaint and remove the late entries on 
his credit file.
Mr S said he didnt get the letter in April 2020 and continued to make the payments so it 
wasnt right Landmark wouldnt remove the late payment markers. So, he asked us to look 
into things.
One of our investigators did so and upheld Mr Ss complaint. He said the July 2016 and 
April 2020 letters werent clear. And when Landmark called Mr S about the missing 
May 2020 payment (the first missing payment after their own redirection service ended) they 
didnt check what account he was paying the money into or look into why the payments 
werent being received. So, he felt it was reasonable for the late payment markers to be 
removed from Mr Ss credit file.
Mr S accepted this outcome  and asked us to get copies of the call recordings to support 
his complaint. But Landmark didnt accept our investigators assessment. They said, in 
summary: 
The July 2016 letter was clear in providing the new account details, but Mr S 
continued to use the old ones.
The April 2020 letter was sent, and it was Mr Ss responsibility to update his address 
details with them, which he didnt. 
Mr S missed payments in May, June, July and August and didnt make full payment 
until September 2020  but he was aware on 9 July 2020 he needed to change his 
details but didnt. As they have a responsibility to record the correct information, they 
dont think theyve done anything wrong.
Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Landmark have said, and at face value it does seem like 
theyve got a point  as from their perspective theyve written on several occasions to Mr S 
to say he needs to update his account details. But, for reasons Ill go on to explain, I do think 
this case should be upheld.
Taking things in chronological order the first letter is dated July 2016. This does have the 
new account details Mr S needs to use. These are though on page two, and on page one it 
says Please note that the administration of your mortgage will not be affected. I dont think 
itd be entirely unreasonable for someone, reading that on the first page, to think they didnt 
need to do anything differently.
For the letter in April 2020 Mr S says he didnt receive it. There appears to be a dispute 
about whether his address was updated with Landmark or not. He says he did update it, 
Landmark say he didnt. But Im not considering this as part of this complaint and think I can 
reach a fair outcome without deciding this issue. I say that because the letter says the 
redirection service will be ending soon. This is different to what Landmark said in their 
complaint response to Mr S  where they said they wouldnt accept any further payments at 
all.
So, at this stage, even if Mr S had got both letters its not unreasonable to say there could 
have been some confusion. When Mr Ss May payment got returned they did discuss things 
with him. I dont have the call recordings Mr S has asked our service to get  but again, I 
think I can decide matters without this.
I say that because initially Mr S was told these arrears related to 2017 on the phone  but 
then in a letter dated the very next day  he was told the arrears were from May 2020.
On 9 July 2020  the date Landmark have said Mr S should have known what was going on 
and started making payments to the correct account details  theyve recorded in their notes 
they needed to trace the payments. So, I dont see this as persuasive evidence of Mr S 
knowing what was going on, and why his payments werent being credited to his mortgage 
account.
In his complaint to us, Mr S has evidenced he was making his monthly mortgage payments. 
So, at this stage and assuming Mr S had been sent and read all of the letters, hes been 
given unclear and conflicting information about why hes being told hes not made his 
monthly mortgage payments when he actually has made them. Because of this hes raised a 
complaint.Upon the outcome of his complaint  in a letter dated 1 September 2020  Mr S has then 
brought his account up to date. This letter actually explained what the issues were. 
Overall then, Im satisfied Landmark have caused some confusion in this case with their 
communications to Mr S  and that crucially he had actually made the payments as hed 
been doing for years. Im also satisfied Landmark had opportunities to better investigate 
what was going on and didnt. Because of this, I think its fair and reasonable for Landmark 
to remove any adverse information theyve recorded about these payments from his credit 
file.
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint, and order Landmark Mortgages Limited to remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file relating to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman