DRN-1657712
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr T says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. I say 
this because Ive been given a copy of the application form completed at the time and 
I can see that this included the option to take out the PPI. Mr T has ticked the box to 
confirm he wanted the cover. And there was a No box he could have ticked if he 
didnt want the cover. And Mr T has signed the application form which suggests he 
agreed with everything that had been input on the form. So I think its most likely that 
Mr T chose to take the cover and that he understood this was something he could 
say No to.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. But it did have to make sure Mr T got the information he needed to decide if 
it was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But he chose 
to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time it seems he was eligible for the policy and it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI 
cover. And Ive considered that Mr T was only entitled to statutory sick pay in the 
event he was too ill to work. And hes told us he had no other means he could have 
relied on in that event, or if he lost his job, such that he may have needed to rely on 
his family to help him make his credit card repayments. So as this policy could have 
paid out for up to 12 months in that event, or if Mr T lost his job, and for longer than 
he would have received sick pay, and as it would have reduced his reliance on any 
help his family may have been able to offer him at the time, I think the policy would 
have been useful to Mr T if something went wrong. 
 
So I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost would have put Mr T off taking 
out the cover.
my final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman