DRN-3807026
The complaint
Mr W has complained about QIC Europe Ltds (QICs) decision to decline a claim he made 
for damage to his roof, caused by a storm.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr W made a claim on his buildings insurance policy for damage caused 
by a storm to the roof of his house. The storm dislodged a number of roof and ridge tiles, 
which lead to an ingress of water into the roof space. 
When Mr W spoke to QIC, he was told that he could arrange for temporary works to be 
done, to stop the damage from worsening and QIC would reimburse the cost. So, Mr W 
arranged for the repair work to be done. But when he submitted his claim for reimbursement 
QIC declined the claim on the basis that there was no evidence of the pre-repair state of the 
property. Mr W had the work carried out by a colleague so was only able to provide QIC with 
a receipt for the materials. Also, at the time QIC inspected the property, the damage had 
been repaired so QIC felt the claim had been prejudiced by their inability to validate whether 
the damage was caused by the storm.
Mr W complained about QICs decision to decline the claim. He said a number of other 
properties in his street were also damaged in the storm, but their insurers settled the claims. 
Mr W also said he was only claiming £700 which he thought was very reasonable.
On 22 April 2022, QIC issued their final response not upholding Mr Ws complaint. They 
accepted that the weather conditions around the time of the incident met the definition of 
storm in the policy documents. However, they said that because the works had been 
completed by the time their surveyor had attended the property, they couldnt confirm that 
the damage was caused by the storm conditions. Because no evidence of the damage was 
provided (such as photographs of the damaged roof), the claim was declined. Also, QIC said 
that as Mr W carried out the permanent repair works without their permission, he was in 
breach of a condition of the policy. 
Unhappy with QICs response, Mr W brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into everything that had happened and issued a view upholding the complaint. She 
said that on the basis of the available evidence, the roof generally appeared to be in a good 
condition. She explained that Mr W said the tiles that came off were from the peak position 
on the roof, where it was likely to be most affected in storm conditions. Our investigator 
concluded that the storm was the most likely cause of the damage, and given the ongoing 
weather conditions, and the months delay in QIC being able to send a surveyor to the 
property, Mr W acted reasonably in replacing the small number of damaged tiles. 
Our investigator recommended that QIC settle the claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions and pay him £150 for the distress and inconvenience hed been 
caused by the way theyd handled his claim. Mr W accepted our investigators view, but QIC 
requested an ombudsmans decision on the complaint. QIC repeated that Mr W could have 
provided photos of the area following the damage, to provide a clear picture of the damage 
the storm may have caused, and as he failed to do so, the claim was fairly declined. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr W is unhappy that QIC have declined his claim, particularly as he was told to go ahead 
with temporary repairs because the surveyor wouldnt be able to attend the property for a 
further month. However, QIC believes that the claim should be declined as Mr W carried out 
permanent repairs before their surveyor could assess the damage and validate the claim, 
and he didnt take any photos of the damaged roof, prior to the repairs being completed. 
When our service considers complaints about claims for storm damage, we ask ourselves 
three questions. If the answer to all three questions is yes, its likely that the complaint would 
be upheld as the claim mostly likely ought to have succeeded. The three questions we ask 
are: 
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the reported damage? 
 Is the damage reported consistent with damage typically caused by a storm? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
So, Ive next gone on to consider each of these questions in turn. 
Were there storm conditions? 
QIC has accepted there were storm conditions around the time Mr W reported the damage 
to his roof, so this point isnt in dispute.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
The damage in this case, of tiles being blown off a roof, is consistent with damage typically 
caused by storm force winds. 
Was the storm the main cause of damage?
QIC declined Mr Ws claim because he carried out permanent repairs before their surveyor 
could visit the property and validate the claim by confirming the damage had been caused by 
the storm. 
I think that QICs actions, in relation to determining whether the storm was the main cause of 
damage, in this case, have been unfair and unreasonable. Mr W told us that the surveyor 
declined to inspect the internal damage to the rooms. Mr W also provided photos of the ridge 
tiles that had come loose which he had jet-washed, and photographs of the repaired roof 
which showed the roof itself was well maintained and in a good state of repair. And he only 
claimed for the costs of materials and labour to repair the damaged tiles, not the entire roof. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, as it is here, I make my decision based on what I think 
more likely than not happened. And taking account of all of the available evidence, I think it 
likely that the storm was the main cause of damage to the roof and ridge tiles, so the repairs 
ought to be covered by the policy.  
Ive next gone on to consider whether QIC have acted fairly in declining Mr Ws claim on the 
basis that he carried out permanent, rather than temporary repairs in breach of a condition of the policy. 
QIC said that in carrying out the repairs to the roof Mr W was in breach of the following 
policy condition: 
You may carry out any temporary repairs that are necessary to reduce any further loss or 
damage, but do not carry out any permanent repairs without first getting our written 
permission.
However, I think the way QIC has applied that term to decline Mr Ws claim and has created 
an unfair outcome for him. I will explain why.
I note that the policy also includes another condition, at paragraph 11 of the same section 
which says:
11. Reasonable care and preventing loss: a. You must take all necessary and reasonable 
steps to prevent or limit..loss or damage to your buildings and contentsIf you make a 
claim under this policy and we decide that the loss, damagethat led to the claim was 
caused or made worse by you failing to meet your obligations under this clause, we may 
refuse to pay the claim or we may reduce the amount of any payment we make for the claim, 
pay only part of the claim or we may cancel your policy.
So, had Mr W decided to wait for the surveyor to attend the property a month later, before 
carrying out any works to the property, his claim could have been declined on the basis of 
this condition, and his policy potentially cancelled. 
Mr W called QIC and asked them if he could carry out repairs to the property because the 
surveyor couldnt attend the property for a month, and after a few days of heavy rain the 
missing tiles on the roof were allowing water to ingress into the property which was causing 
damage to the front and back bedrooms. Mr W explained that he was told to do what he 
could to stop the damage worsening. He obtained a couple of quotes from roofers, but, with 
the inclusion of scaffolding costs, the quotes were more than £2,000 plus VAT, which he felt 
was too expensive to proceed with. Mr W said hed tried to carry out temporary repairs from 
the inside of the house but they werent effective. 
Mr W therefore went ahead and had the roof tiles and ridge tiles replaced at his own cost. 
He said there were approximately 12 broken roof tiles and nine ridge tiles that had come 
loose. A former colleague of Mr Ws, a retired roofer, spent a week helping him to do the 
repairs. They took the ridge tiles down from the roof and jet washed them, and replaced 
them, and the broken tiles. Mr W provided a copy of the receipt for the materials to QIC and 
explained that hed paid the roofer £400 to do the works. Given that he wasnt claiming for 
the internal damage to the rooms, or the damaged fences on his property, Mr W felt that he 
was being reasonable. However, QIC disagreed. They maintained that Mr W had prejudiced 
their position by completing the repairs without first taking photos of the damaged roof. 
Without that QIC said they couldnt validate his claim and confirm that the damage was 
caused by the storm. 
When Mr W phoned a claims handler to complain about the claim being declined, she said 
that if hed carried out temporary repairs, they would have been covered. However, its not 
clear how Mr W could have temporarily repaired the 12 roof tiles and 9 ridge tiles without 
replacing and reinstating them as he did. I think it was reasonable for him to proceed to carry 
out those works, in the circumstances, given the limited nature of the works and associated 
costs. Also, I note that at no time have QIC offered an alternative suggestion as to how such 
temporary repairs could have been carried out in these circumstances.  Im upholding this complaint on the basis that QICs decision to decline Mr Ws claim by 
applying the above-mentioned policy condition creates an unreasonable and unfair outcome, 
in his circumstances. In addition to requiring QIC to fairly settle Mr Ws claim in accordance 
with the remaining policy terms and conditions, Im also awarding £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hes suffered as a result of the unfair way theyve handled his 
claim. Should Mr W be unhappy with the way QIC settles his claim, then he may make a 
further complaint to QIC about that, and if his complaint isnt resolved to his satisfaction, he 
may seek to bring a further complaint about that to this service.
Putting things right
For the reasons detailed above, I uphold this complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to fairly 
settle Mr Ws claim in accordance with the remaining policy terms and conditions, and pay 
8%* interest on any amounts Mr W has already paid, to have his roof repaired from the date 
of payment to the date this settlement is paid. 
I also require QIC Europe to pay Mr W £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused by the way theyve handled his claim.
(*If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr W a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate).
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
QIC Europe Ltd to pay the awards detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman