DRN-3504799
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) has refused to refund her the amount she lost as 
the result of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mrs J found an advertisement on Facebook for a business called Expert 
Financial Solutions Limited (EFSL) offering investments. Mrs J contacted EFSL and after 
gaining confidence with Mrs J she decided to invest with it.
EFSL told Mrs J that she would need to open an account with the cryptocurrency exchange 
Wisenex so that she could make her investments. EFSL asked Mrs J to download the 
screen sharing application AnyDesk so that it could help her with this process which she did.
Mrs J made several payments to Wisenex using her Resolut Visa debit card in several 
currencies as listed below:
1. 19 November 2021 - £1,167.51
2. 30 November 2021 - £1,183.38
3. 3 December 2021 - 9,920.12 PLN
4. 6 December 2021 - 19,795.67 PLN
5. 6 December 2021 - 10,042.45 PLN
6. 7 December 2021 - 15,198.45 PLN
7. 22 December 2021 - €2,006.55
These funds were then forwarded to EFSL.
EFSL gave Mrs J login details to her account with it where she was able to see her 
investments increasing in value. But when Mrs J attempted to make a withdrawal from EFSL 
she was asked to make further payments, and when she declined to make the payments 
EFSL ceased all communication.
It became clear that Mrs J had fallen victim to a scam, and she was unable to recover any of 
the funds she had sent to EFSL.
Our Investigator considered Mrs Js complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs J 
disagreed. She said Resolut should have done more to prevent the scam taking place. 
As Mrs J disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mrs J and Resolut set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Resolut should 
refund any of the money Mrs J lost because of this scam.
Resolut was unable to request a chargeback for the payments Mrs J made in relation to this 
scam.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mrs J was dealing with EFSL, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mrs J 
didnt make the debit card payments to EFSL directly, she paid a separate cryptocurrency 
exchange (Wisenex). This is important because Resolut was only able to process 
chargeback claims against the merchant she paid (Wisenex), not another party (such as 
EFSL).
The service provided by Wisenex.com would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mrs Js payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Wisenex provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mrs J paid. As Wisenex provided 
the requested service to Mrs J any attempt at a chargeback would likely fail.
Mrs J has accepted she authorised the payments she made to Wisenex, so the starting point 
here is that Mrs J is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers 
(PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to 
undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Resolut should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
to prevent the payments Mrs J was making.
Mrs J made payments to Wisenex which was a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange 
business. So, the business itself would not have been of a concern to Resolut, and 
payments to the business would be unlikely to trigger Resoluts fraud prevention systems.
The initial payment made by Mrs J was for a reasonably low amount of £1,167.51. While Mrs 
J had not previously made payments to Wisenex it would not be reasonable for me to 
suggest Resoluts fraud prevention systems should be triggered every time one of its 
customers pays a business that they havent paid before.
The second payment Mrs J made was 11 days after the first, so was not in quick succession. 
It was also not for a particularly high amount so for the same reasons I wouldnt expect the 
first payment to have been stopped I wouldnt have expected Resoluts fraud prevention 
systems to be triggered by this payment either.
Mrs J made a further five payments throughout December 2021 to Wisenex. By the time the 
third payment was made Mrs Js account had started to show a history of paying Wisenex (a 
legitimate business) on a regular basis. These payments were also spread across the month 
of December with only two payments being made on the same day. None of the payments were of a significant value that I would expect to trigger Resoluts fraud prevention systems.
Mrs J has told us her account had not previously been used  to pay cryptocurrency 
exchanges. But, as explained above, I dont think the payments Mrs J made to Wisenet 
would reasonably have triggered Resoluts fraud prevention systems, so it was not able to 
step in and stop this scam from taking place, and I dont think its responsible for any of Mrs 
Js loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman