DRN-4224583
Complaint
Ms C has complained about a personal loan Oplo PL Ltd (Oplo) which she says was 
unfairly lent to her. 
She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Oplo provided Ms C with a loan for £10,000.00 in May 2019. This loan had an APR of 
28.85% and the total amount to be repaid of £16,096.32, which included interest fees and 
charges of £6,096.32, was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just over £335.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Ms C and Oplo had told us. He thought that Oplo 
ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Ms C and so upheld the 
complaint. 
Oplo disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to take a look at the case.
My provisional decision of 3 July 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 3 July 2023 - setting out why I wasnt intending to uphold           
Ms Cs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible 
and unaffordable lending on our website. And that Id used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Ms Cs complaint. 
Oplo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
what this means is that Oplo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Ms C could afford to make her repayments before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Oplo said it approved Ms Cs application after she provided details of her monthly income 
and some information on her expenditure. It said it cross-checked this against information on 
a credit search it carried out. In Oplos view all of the information it gathered showed that       
Ms C could comfortably afford to make the repayments she was committing to. 
On the other hand, Ms C said she was already in difficulty and couldnt afford this loan.
I carefully thought about what Ms C and Oplo said. 
It was clear that Oplo did obtain a reasonable amount of information before it decided to 
proceed with Ms Cs application. And this information did appear to suggest that the loan 
repayments were affordable for Ms C. Indeed our adjudicator appeared to have accepted 
this but he in any event thought that the percentage of Ms Cs income that would be going 
towards credit repayments was unsustainable. 
I did think about the percentage of Ms Cs income that would be going towards repayments 
to credit. However, the information from the time suggested that Ms C was going to use the 
majority of the funds from this loan to settle other debts. I could see that Ms C provided Oplo 
with an undertaking that she would settle the outstanding balance on seven accounts. 
I didnt know if Ms C did use the funds in the way that shed undertaken to. But I explained 
that Oplo could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had available at 
the time. It had a written undertaking from Ms C and I thought that it was reasonably entitled 
to believe that Ms C would follow through with her commitment. 
I also thought that it was worth noting that there appeared to be no dispute that the monthly 
payments were affordable whether or not the existing balances were cleared. So I didnt 
think that Oplo had to contact Ms Cs existing creditors and clear the balances on her 
accounts in the way that our adjudicator had suggested. 
Furthermore, as this was a first loan Oplo was providing to Ms C, there wasnt a history of 
Ms C obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way she 
committed to. So given the particular circumstances here, I was satisfied that Oplo was 
reasonably entitled to believe that Ms C would be left in a better position after being provided 
with this loan.
I did accept that Ms Cs full circumstances may not have been reflected in the information 
Oplo gathered or in the information she had since provided. But it was only fair and 
reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a firm did something 
wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I didnt think that 
Oplo did anything wrong when providing this loan to Ms C - it carried out proportionate 
checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were 
affordable. And it obtained written confirmation from Ms C that shed use the funds to clear 
what she owed elsewhere. 
So overall and having considered everything, I was not persuaded that Oplo acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when lending to Ms C. And I wasnt intending to uphold Ms C complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms C confirmed that while she was very disappointed with my provisional decision she had 
nothing further to add.
Oplo confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and that it had nothing further to 
add. My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I wasnt intending to uphold Ms Cs complaint in my provisional 
decision of 3 July 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further to consider by the 
parties, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So I still dont think that Oplo failed 
to act fairly and reasonably towards Ms C and Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that Ms C is very disappointed. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 3 July 2023, Im not 
upholding Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman