DRN-4099893
The complaint
Mr H complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call), a broker, mis-sold him
an executive home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H took out a buildings and contents home insurance policy online through One Call in
January 2020. The policy included basic home emergency cover.
Mr H enhanced his basic home emergency cover by taking out an additional executive home
emergency insurance policy. He paid an additional premium for this policy of £49.99. Mr H
renewed his home insurance policy in January 2021 and it again included the executive
home emergency insurance cover for the same premium.
In November 2021, when his heating and hot water failed, Mr H made a claim on his
executive home emergency insurance policy. The engineer who came to Mr Hs home to fix 
the fault told him he was a gas plumber and wasnt trained on Mr Hs type of boiler. Mr H 
says the engineer left very swiftly and Mr Hs claim was subsequently turned down.
Mr H complained to One Call hed been mis-sold the executive home emergency insurance 
policy. He said if hed known his type of boiler wasnt covered by it, he wouldnt have bought 
it. 
One Call didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said Mr H wouldve been referred to various
documents before he bought the policy, including the policy wording. One Call says this told
Mr H the policy didnt cover electricity, any electric related domestic appliances, in addition
to pumps and any associated electrics or valves. As a gesture of goodwill, though, One Call
said it would refund Mr H the premium of £49.99 he paid for the 2021 policy.
When Mr H brought his complaint to us, the investigator who looked at it upheld it. He didnt
think One Call had given Mr H enough information to allow him to make an informed 
decision about whether the executive home emergency insurance policy was right for him. 
He said One Call should refund Mr H the premiums hed paid for the policies in 2020 and 
2021.
One Call disagreed. It says Mr H knew what type of boiler he had and the exclusions
pointing towards the electric issue are clear enough for [Mr H] to see that cover would not be
applied. So Mr Hs complaint came to me to decide.
In my provisional decision of 29 March 2023, I explained why I thought One Calls offer to 
refund Mr H his premium of £49.99 for his 2021 executive home emergency insurance policy 
was a fair resolution to his complaint. 
Mr H doesnt agree with my decision, while One Call hasnt responded to it. So Mr Hs 
complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that One Calls offer to refund Mr H his premium of £49.99 for 
his 2021 executive home emergency insurance policy is a fair and reasonable resolution to 
this complaint. 
In my provisional decision, I explained why Id reached this conclusion, as follows:
Mr H bought the executive home emergency insurance policy online. Ive seen nothing to
make me think One Call made a recommendation advising Mr H to buy the policy. So this
was a decision he needed to make himself. But One Call needed to give Mr H information
about the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could make that decision in an
informed way. This included One Call bringing to Mr Hs attention any significant policy
exclusions or limitations that could impact his decision about whether or not the policy was
right for him. So thats what Ive looked at here.
In a Statement of Demands and Needs One Call gave Mr H at the time he bought the policy,
it said (among other things):
From our knowledge of your circumstances and the information provided by you during our
recent communications it has been established that you have a requirement for the following
cover: 
Boiler cover, this will provide emergency repairs following an emergency which occurs as a
result of the failure to function or breakdown of the main source of heating in your home.
Mr H says by taking out the executive cover, he thought hed have all the safety and security
he needed if his main source of heating broke down. He says he relied purely on the
wording Ive quoted to make his decision to buy the executive cover. And he says there was
nothing in the policy about his particular source of heating not being covered.
Mr H gets his heating and hot water from an air source heat pump. One Call says Mr Hs
policy doesnt cover him for repairs to this type of heat source. And it says this is clear from
Mr Hs policy document, which he couldve reviewed before he bought the cover. Im not
sure it is clear and I note Mr H said he had read and checked the policy. I think if he thought
there might be issues with the policy hed have spoken to One Call.
Mr Hs policy has exclusions for, among other things, Electricity, mechanical/electrical
breakdown of any domestic appliance and pumps including: sewerage pumps, drainage
pumps, shower pumps, any associated electrics or valves. The exclusion for Electricity is
also set out in the Statement of Demands and Needs Ive already mentioned. One Call says
this information, which is also referred to in other documents it says Mr H couldve looked at
before he bought the policy, was ample to enable Mr H to make an informed choice before
he bought the policy. 
Im not sure I agree One Call gave Mr H ample information to enable him to make an 
informed choice about the cover. But, ultimately, I dont need to decide this point. Thats 
because One Call has already agreed to refund Mr H his policy premium for 2021 (and has 
sent him a cheque for this amount). Mr H says his policy premiums for both years should be 
refunded because the cover he got was useless. But Mr Hs executive home emergency 
cover had other policy benefits that wouldve been available to him if hed needed to claim 
across both years. So. in all the circumstances, from what Ive seen so far, I think One Calls offer to refund Mr H his 2021 policy premium is a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points in response to my provisional decision. Among other 
things, Mr H says that, having read the policy booklet, he believed he had the cover he 
needed as theres no mention or distinction of source of heating. Mr H also says, in relation 
to the 2020 policy he took out that, although I said in my provisional decision hed have 
cover for other things, he doesnt think this is relevant because he didnt make any claims in 
2002. So Mr H says One Call should refund him the premium for the 2020 policy as well.
Ive considered all the comments Mr H has made but they dont change my conclusions on 
this complaint. For the 2021 executive home emergency insurance policy, on which Mr H 
was unable to claim for the fault with his source of heating, One Call has offered to refund 
him his premium of £49.99 (and Mr H says One Call has sent him a cheque for this amount 
(although I believe he hasnt cashed it so far)). In the circumstances, I think One Calls offer 
is fair and reasonable. 
For the 2020 executive home emergency insurance policy, while I understand Mr H didnt 
make any claims, the cover the policy gave for other insured perils wouldve been available 
to him had he needed it. So I think the 2020 policy did give Mr H a benefit and I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to direct One Call to refund the policy premium for it.
My final decision
One Call Insurance Services Limited has already offered to pay Mr H £49.99 to settle this 
complaint (and I believe it has sent him a cheque for this amount). 
For the reasons Ive given here and in my provisional decision (which now form part of this 
final decision), I think One Call Insurance Services Limiteds offer of £49.99 to settle this 
complaint is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  I dont make any further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman