DRN-4348943
The complaint
Miss P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost when 
she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In May 2022, a friend of Miss Ps told her about an app they had been using. The app 
allowed users to deposit money to unlock tasks, which were typically visiting or liking 
products on an online marketplace, and then to earn money by completing those tasks. Each 
completed task would earn the user a small payment and, by depositing larger amounts, 
users could unlock tasks that earned larger payments. Miss P says her friend told her they 
had made enough money from the app to quit their job, and showed Miss P how they could 
withdraw money from the app back to their bank account. Miss P then signed up to the app 
herself and made a series of payments to deposit money into it, as directed to by someone 
working for the company running the app  who she understood to be her manager.
Miss P says the payments she made were to buy cryptocurrency, which was then deposited 
into her balance which she could see on the app. This balance would then unlock tasks, 
which could earn her more money that would be added to her balance. And as the balance 
itself was in cryptocurrency, it could also increase as the value of the cryptocurrency 
increased. Ive set out the payments Miss P made below:
Date Details Amount
3 May 2022 £170
3 May 2022 £1,000
4 May 2022 £111
4 May 2022 £10
4 May 2022 £1,299
9 May 2022 Withdrawal from app £20
10 May 2022 Withdrawal from app £20
23 May 2022 £15
23 May 2022 £30
25 May 2022 £35
25 May 2022 £200
30 May 2022 £32
31 May 2022 Withdrawal from app £240.16
6 June 2022 Withdrawal from app £100
6 June 2022 £100
6 June 2022 £200.88
Unfortunately, we now know the app and the company running it were a scam.
The scam was uncovered when Miss P tried to withdraw a significant amount of her balance. 
The app told her she needed to deposit more money before she could make a withdrawal 
and, despite having been able to make smaller withdrawals previously, her manager also 
now said she needed to pay more in before she could withdraw. Miss P then realised the 
app was a scam and says she asked NatWest to refund the money she had lost.
NatWest doesnt appear to have responded to Miss P, so she referred a complaint to our 
service. I sent Miss P and NatWest a provisional decision on 16 August 2023, setting out 
why I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set 
out below:
Are the payments covered by the CRM code?
Ive first considered whether the CRM code applies to all the payments Miss P made as a 
result of this scam.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) is a 
voluntary code NatWest has signed up to. It sets out a number of circumstances in which 
firms are required to reimburse customers who have been the victims of certain types of 
scam. But it only covers certain types of payments where a customer paid funds to another 
person for what they thought were legitimate purposes, but which were in fact fraudulent.
Miss P has said all the payments she made were to buy cryptocurrency. I recognise that she 
only did this under the direction of the scammer. But, the buying of cryptocurrency isnt one 
of the types of payments covered by the code. And the purchase of the cryptocurrency itself 
was not fraudulent, as Miss P appears to have actually bought and received cryptocurrency. 
So the way the CRM code is written means that I dont think it applies to these payments.
Did NatWest do enough to protect Miss P?
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And Miss P 
accepts she made the payments here. So while I recognise she didnt intend for the money 
to go to scammers, she did authorise the payment. And so the starting position in law is that 
NatWest was obliged to follow her instructions and make the payments. So Miss P isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund.
Even though I dont think the payments Miss P made are covered by the CRM code, the 
regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out requirements for 
banks to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. So, in line with this, I think 
NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
And so Ive also considered whether NatWest should have identified that Miss P was 
potentially at risk of fraud as a result of these payments.But the payments Miss P made werent for what Id consider to be particularly large 
amounts. There were other payments for similar amounts going out of her account around 
the same time. And the payments didnt form a suspicious pattern or leave the balance of 
her account at a particularly unusual level.
So I dont think the payments will have looked particularly suspicious or unusual to NatWest. 
And I think its reasonable that NatWest didnt identify that Miss P was potentially at risk of 
fraud as a result, or ask any further questions or carry out any additional checks before 
allowing them to go through.
Did NatWest do enough to recover the money Miss P lost?
Once they have been notified of a scam, we expect businesses to take reasonable steps to 
try to recover any money their customers have lost.
But NatWest can only try to recover the money from where it was sent to. And the payments 
Miss P made were to buy cryptocurrency, and these purchases appear to have been 
legitimate  Miss P actually did receive the cryptocurrency she was paying for and then sent 
it on to the scammers. So any attempt by NatWest to recover the money would likely have 
been unsuccessful, as Miss P received what she paid for with these payments.
And so I dont think anything wed reasonably expect NatWest to have done would have 
recovered the money Miss P lost.
I sympathise with the position Miss P has found herself in. She has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and Im in no way saying she did anything wrong herself. I appreciate that my decision 
will come as a disappointment to her. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think 
NatWest has acted unreasonably or that anything I would reasonably have expected it to do 
would have prevented this scam or recovered her money. So I dont think it would be fair to 
require NatWest to refund the money Miss P has lost.
I said Id consider anything further Miss P and NatWest sent in following the provisional 
decision, provided it was received by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest didnt respond to the provisional decision. Miss P responded to say she didnt 
accept the outcome of the provisional decision, but didnt send in any further evidence or 
arguments.
As neither Miss P not NatWest sent in any further evidence or arguments, I still think the 
conclusions I reached in the provisional decision are correct, and for the same reasons.
I still dont think anything we would reasonably have expected NatWest to have done would 
have prevented Miss P falling victim to the scam or recovered the money she lost. So I dont 
think it would be fair to require NatWest to refund the money Miss P has lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman