DRN-3227064
The complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) mis-sold her a free 
standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) policy. Mrs M says taking this policy was 
not a suitable option given her circumstances at the time.
What happened
On 23 November 1994 Mrs M had a meeting with an Aviva representative (tied advisor). 
Advice was given to Mrs M around her pension requirements.
Aviva has provided a copy of the fact find document that was produced as a result of what
was discussed during the meeting.
The fact find included details about Mrs Ms age, employer, salary, marital status and that 
she had no dependents. The fact find also showed that Mrs M was enrolled on her 
employers pension scheme and owned her own home with a mortgage.
In addition the fact find also found that Mrs M was not considering changing her career.
Mrs M signed in agreement to take the FSAVC in December 1994 contributing £35 per 
month.
Our Investigator considered Mrs Ms complaint and didnt think the advisor had done
everything they should have at the time they sold the policy. They found that had the advisor
done everything they should have Mrs M would have taken an in-house additional voluntary
contribution (AVC) policy.
As Aviva didnt agree this case has been passed to me to deicide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the advisor did everything he should have at the time of the
policy sale. Tied advisors at the time of the sale were required to follow the rules set out by
the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO).
The rules say that the advice tied advisors gave should include that:
In-house money purchase AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the 
FSAVC
Added years might have been available under a defined benefit occupational 
scheme, particularly in the public sector - these provided a guaranteed benefit 
linked to salary and an additional component of tax-free cash, neither of which 
were available under an FSAVC
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid 
into either in-house option
The recommendation written by the advisor states:
When advising Mrs M to take out an FSAVC, I asked [her] on 23/11/94 to investigate and 
compare the costs and benefits of the past added years and scheme AVC options available 
from [her] current pension scheme. Having had an opportunity to do this, [she] now wish to 
proceed with the received contract.
There is no other evidence within the document that shows the generic benefits were
discussed, including that it was likely an in-house AVC would be cheaper.
Had the above information had been discussed I think it would have prompted Mrs M to 
consider her options in more detail and she would likely have taken more time to consider 
what option would have worked best for her.
Had Mrs M been given the required information from the outset I think it is likely she would
have opted to take an in-house AVC option as it likely offered her substantially the same
product at a cheaper cost.
Aviva has explained that it feels Mrs M would have been aware of the available options 
and appeared to be open to a greater risk with the potential for higher returns. But this 
doesnt take away from Avivas responsibility to have fulfilled its obligations listed above. 
And as Ive said, I dont think Mrs M would have taken the FSAVC if it had.
Aviva has also looked at other complaints we have considered that it says are broadly 
the same as Mrs Ms. Aviva says these cases were not upheld. But as Aviva knows, 
each case is considered on its own merits, so this doesnt change my decision.
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with 
the regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into 
account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 
January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January
2005, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should use the CAPS mixed with property index up 
to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid
into Mrs Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it wouldconflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mrs M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax 
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement 
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to put things right by 
doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman