DRN-3045758
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys Bank) has refused to refund 
transactions (made using his Sainsburys Bank credit card) to a fraudulent binary options 
company (Golden Markets).
 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mr M has told our service the following:
In November 2018, he made several payments to Golden Markets.
Golden Markets and their brands prevented from me [sic] the allowance of 
withdrawal when I demanded such. And did not invest my money.  But only stole it.
He later discovered that Golden Markets were operating as a scam and that 
warnings had been published about them by several regulators  including the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Visa and Mastercard rules were not met regarding the payments he made.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Sainsburys Bank is jointly and 
severally liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation regarding the 
payments.
The transactions in dispute are:
£5,500 to Golden Markets (7 November 2018).
£4,500 to Golden Markets (14 November 2018).
£1,600 to Golden Markets (28 November 2018).
Mr M contacted Sainsburys Bank to try to recover his money but was unsuccessful.  
Sainsbury Bank told him that he had no chargeback rights under the Mastercard scheme 
rules; nor did he have any rights under section 75 because of the type of payments he 
made.
Unhappy with Sainsburys Banks position, Mr M referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  He thought had a 
chargeback been raised, there would have been no reasonable prospect of success through 
Mastercards chargeback scheme due to the nature of Mr Ms claim.  However, he argued 
that in his view, Mr M did have a valid claim for misrepresentation and breach of contract 
under section 75, so he suggested Sainsburys Bank refund Mr Ms money.
Mr M accepted the investigators findings, but Sainsburys Bank did not.  In the interest of 
conciseness, I will repeat Sainsburys Banks response here:
We fundamentally disagree with this assessment.  Mr M has purchased a holding account 
for the purpose of transacting in trades, these are not purchases but instead cash 
transactions and do not fall under the jurisdiction of Section 75.  We dont feel it fits with the 
legal analysis of these transactions which would show that there was not a debtor-credit-
supplier transaction.  This has clearly been considered a transfer of funds by all parties, with 
the customers hope and expectation that they would make a profit.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for reasons I set out below.
Chargeback
I have first considered that Mr M had no valid chargeback rights under the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme.  I say this because he did not have the evidence needed to satisfy the 
requirements of the scheme rules.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
I have considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ms complaint on the 
basis that Sainsburys Bank is liable to him under section 75.  As a starting point, I think it 
would be helpful if I set out what the section says:
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor 
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise, there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000.
I will deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn.  
Debtor-creditor-supplier agreement
First, there does not seem to be any dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement under the 1974 Act.  And, I am satisfied here there is nothing 
that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  insomuch as there are three parties 
involved:1. Mr M (the debtor);
2. Sainsburys Bank (the creditor); and
3. Golden Markets (the supplier)  as shown on Mr Ms paperwork and on Sainsburys 
Banks business file submissions.
A transaction financed by the agreement
Secondly, the next consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction is not defined in the 1974 Act, but it has generally been given a wide 
interpretation by the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal.  
Here, Mr M has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished. 
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  I am satisfied there 
were transactions (which I will call the deposit-transactions) as defined by section 75.
Again, to finance, is not defined in the 1974 Act.  An ordinary definition would be to provide 
funds to do something.  In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004], Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed, The phrase to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial 
accommodation in respect of  A credit card issuer clearly provides financial 
accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to his purchases from suppliers, because he is 
given time to pay for his purchase under the terms of the credit card agreement.  
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Mr M had not used his credit card, he would have 
had to find the cash from his own resources to fund the deposit transactions and obtain the 
investment account this supposedly entitled him to.  So, it is clear that the deposit-
transactions were financed by the agreement. 
A claim related to that transaction
Thirdly, a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract must relate to the transaction.  It 
is important to consider what Mr Ms claim is here. It is evident from his testimony and 
correspondence he provided that he feels he was tricked into depositing the payments with 
Golden Markets for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Mr M to deposit further amounts. 
Mr M does not believe that Golden Markets was operating legitimately and believes he was 
misled into thinking they were.
This claim, that Mr M was misled into depositing funds, is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transactions.  The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.  In this case, if Mr M was told by Golden Markets matters that were factually untrue 
in order to trick him into entering into the deposit-transactions, his claim would be for 
misrepresentation.  Or, if the merchant made binding promises to him as part of those 
transactions and went on to breach these that would make his claim one for breach of 
contract.  
Cash price value
Finally, the claim must not relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash 
price of less than £100 or more than £30,000.  Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is the value of that deposit-transaction.  It is both the consideration and subject 
matter of the contract. 
For the reasons set out above, I am satisfied that section 75 does apply to the credit card 
deposit-transactions in this case.
I will therefore go on to consider whether Mr M has a valid claim for misrepresentation and/or 
breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Mr M has made a claim of misrepresentation by Golden Markets  that claim 
being that they represented to him that they were a legitimate enterprise when this was not 
the case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful, it is necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact, but also that the statement induced Mr M into entering into an agreement. 
A false statement of fact
If I am satisfied that Golden Markets were not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise  
one in which Mr M could never have received back more money than he deposited  then it 
follows that any statements made by Golden Markets to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mr M could make money from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade.  And, I am satisfied that based on Mr Ms account of events and the nature of the 
situation, Golden Markets did claim that Mr M could have made money from the trading 
platform.
That induced him into entering the agreement
Again, had Mr M known that the trading platform was essentially a scam, designed to relieve 
investors of their money, rather than a legitimate service  there is really little question, to my 
mind, of him not investing with Golden Markets.  Consequently, should I be satisfied that 
Golden Markets is not operating a legitimate enterprise, then inducement will also be 
demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail, I should mention that I have found Mr Ms account of 
events both detailed and compelling.  But more than this, it is corroborated not just by other 
complaints of this nature, but specific complaints against Golden Markets.  Because of this, 
Im minded to find his account to be truthful.
So, turning to Mr Ms account, which includes not only what he has submitted to this service, 
but also his submissions to Sainsburys Bank.  I note Mr M says Golden Markets provided 
him with direct investment services/advice not related to real market/exchange data  
manufacturing false charts etc.  I also note Mr Ms description of the tactics used by Golden 
Markets.  In particular, they told him they were regulated, made unrealistic guarantees 
regarding returns/yields and were trading on his behalf without permission.  Moreover, Mr M 
says he was prohibited from withdrawing his funds.There is a body of external information available through various regulators, law 
enforcement agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that 
repeat the tactics used by Golden Markets.  This does lead me to seriously question whether 
any actual trades were being placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact 
Golden Markets offered little more than a video game or simulation.
There is further evidence in the form of a warning on the FCAs website dated 25 May 2018.  
This warning was published prior to the payments concerned, and suggests Golden Markets 
may not have been acting legitimately:
We believe this firm has been providing financial services or products in the UK without our 
authorisation. Find out why to be especially wary of dealing with this unauthorised firm and 
how to protect yourself from scammers.
In summary
Further to Sainsburys Banks failure to intervene, I do not think it is likely Golden Markets 
were operating a legitimate enterprise.  So, I am persuaded they made misrepresentations 
to Mr M.  That is, that they were running a genuine enterprise through which he could never 
have got back more than his deposits from the platform.  I am also satisfied that if Mr M had 
known this, he would not have deposited any money, so he was induced into the contract on 
the basis of these misrepresentations.
Breach of contract
Here, Mr M has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished.  
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  I am satisfied there 
was a transaction (the deposit-transaction) as defined by section 75.
It follows, I think, that Golden Markets had contractual obligations:
a) To enable Mr M to use the funds from his deposits on an investment platform; and 
b) To enable Mr M to withdraw the funds deposited as and when he wished.
Mr M was not able to use the funds from his deposits on the investment platform.  Further, 
he says Golden Markets prevented him from withdrawing funds from his trading account 
when he wanted to.  Taking these points together, I am satisfied that Golden Markets 
breached the above contractual obligations.
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Mr Ms loss amounts to the full 
amount of each of his deposits.
Putting things right
Ive established two grounds Mr M could have recovered his deposit-transactions:
Misrepresentation: I am satisfied Mr M has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that Golden Markets made a series of misrepresentations, namely that it 
was operating a legitimate enterprise and that Mr M could access his money freely 
and earn a profit from his deposit-transactions. 
Breach of contract: I am satisfied Mr M also has a claim for breach of contract as 
Golden Markets breached their verbal promises to Mr M.  Namely, that he could use the funds from his deposits on an investment platform, and withdraw funds deposited 
as and when he wished.  This provides another basis for recovery. 
As a claim for misrepresentation gives the highest sum, Sainsburys Bank should put Mr M 
back into the position he would have been had the deposit-transactions (totalling £11,600) 
not been entered into.  So, he should receive refunds of these amounts, less any amounts 
credited to him by Golden Markets. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I therefore 
direct Sainsburys Bank Plc:
Refund to Mr M the deposit-transaction, less the amounts credited by the supplier;
Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement; and
If Sainsburys Bank Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Mr M with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman