DRN-2150697
The complaint
Mr O complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) failed to repair his car fully following 
an accident. He feels that the car should have been classified as a write-off.
What happened
Mr O had a car accident in May 2017 causing damage to the wheels on his car. He 
contacted esure who instructed a repairer to carry out the repairs to Mr Os car. esure 
advised Mr O that there would be a £550 excess once the repairs had been completed. 
Repairs were carried out and the car was returned to Mr O in July 2017. Mr O contacted 
esure as some warning lights on the dashboard were coming on, so the car was taken back 
to the repairer to see what was causing this. In August 2017, the original repairer closed 
down so the car was collected from there and taken to a different garage to try and identify 
the issue.
In September 2017 Mr O made a formal complaint to esure about the way his claim had 
been handled. He was originally told the vehicle would be repaired within four days and the 
garage was demanding that he pay the excess even though he was not happy with the 
repairs. Mr O wanted his excess back by way of compensation and also the cost of the 
repayments he had made for the vehicle on finance since the car had not been in his 
possession. 
Mr Os car was returned to him from the second garage later in September and he contacted 
esure to say that the car was pulling to the left and there was a noise when applying the 
brakes. At this point the garage said that it had carried out diagnostic checks and found the 
battery was flat, so it erased the fault codes and charged the battery up. A road test had also 
been carried out and everything was OK at the time of testing. 
Mr Os car was collected again and taken back to the garage. In October 2017 the garage 
said that all issues with the car were not related to the accident. Mr O maintained that the 
issues were related to the accident and over the five months that his car had been in for 
repair.
In November 2017 esure responded to Mr Os complaint. It said that the car had been 
assessed in relation to the new issues raised about the car pulling to the left and the clicking 
noise. These were deemed to be due to the brake discs and pads being worn and in need of 
replacement; a four-wheel alignment had also been carried out and no issues were noted. It 
also noted that all four of the alloys had been damaged again and that one of the tyres was 
badly damaged. However, it said that one alloy had been replaced and three wheels 
refurbished previously so there should have been no damage on the wheels. Based on the 
findings, esure deemed the issues not to be accident or repair related and said it wouldnt be 
taking any further action in respect of this. 
However, esure did credit Mr O with £550 to compensate him for the inconvenience caused 
by the delay in the further work and investigation being carried out following the initial return 
of his car. This was due to the initial repairer no longer having a contract with esure. 
In August 2018 Mr O contacted esure again. He said that the front disc had been replaced 
three times and the issues still remained and the steering wheel was still shaking. His 
garage had done a further investigation and found other issues which he was unhappy 
paying for as he said they were caused by the accident. 
Mr O provided a copy of an invoice from his garage for the work carried out dated 
September 2018. This sets out that the steering wheel was shaking and that the front brake 
pads and discs were replaced on the first visit. Mr O had reported that the vibration was still 
present so on the second visit a further investigation was carried out and the run out on the 
front offside wheel hub was out so this was replaced. It was noted that the car was tested 
and the technician advised that the steering vibration was gone. On the third visit the 
technician reported a slight vibration coming through the chassis and it was indicated that 
the rear brake discs were warped. The rear brake pads and discs were replaced and the car 
was tested and found to be OK. 
A response was provided by esure in October 2018. It apologised for the delay in providing 
this response and credited Mr O with £100. However, esure said that it was not in a position 
to contribute towards the costs of repairing the car as the invoice didnt say how or when the 
wheel was damaged or if it was part of the May 2017 incident and there were no images of 
the damaged wheel. It also reiterated that all four wheels had been damaged again following 
the initial repairs and that a wheel alignment was carried out and no issues reported. It had 
also now been ten months since esure had previously advised Mr O that the issue was 
unrelated. esure confirmed that, without any evidence the issue was due to the incident in 
May 2017, it would not be able to do anything further.
esure subsequently spoke with Mr Os garage in October 2018, who confirmed that the car 
had done over 10,000 miles since the accident and that they couldnt conclude when or how 
the damage had occurred to the wheel hub. Having spoken with one of its senior engineers, 
it maintained that the damage wasnt related to the accident. However, as a gesture of 
goodwill, esure paid Mr O £470.19 to cover the cost of the wheel hub (parts and labour).
In December 2019, Mr O contacted esure again as he said the damage was still causing 
problems with the brakes and the steering wheel shaking. He said that he was told by his 
garage that the car should have been written off and provided further invoices. An invoice 
from September 2019 shows that the discs and pads had been replaced again. An invoice 
from December 2019 sets out that the garage was investigating a judder when braking and 
that Mr O complained this had only occurred since the accident. 
esure reiterated that it couldnt relate the issues with the car to the accident in May 2017 and 
Mr Os garage also couldnt confirm the issue was related to the accident. It asked Mr O to 
obtain a report confirming what the issue is and how it was caused, otherwise it would not be 
taking any further action.
Mr Os garage has also corresponded with esure in order to try and resolve the problem for 
him. In March 2020 it wrote to esure saying that three members of its staff had driven the car 
and deemed it unsafe to drive as it vibrates and pulls to one side, which are traits of the 
chassis not being in correct alignment. It had sent Mr Os car to a bodyshop as the original 
garage which carried out the repairs had gone into liquidation in 2017. As the garage 
couldnt confirm the issues were related to the accident, esure has reiterated that it wouldnt 
be taking any further action, so Mr O brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at this case and decided that esure had dealt with Mr Os complaint 
fairly. In relation to whether the car should have been written off, the investigator found that it 
was for esure to decide how to address the claim and they decided to repair the car. He was 
unable to conclude that esure should have written the car off as the value of the car was significantly higher than the cost of the repairs. 
In relation to the initial repairs, the investigator found that it had taken longer than it should 
have done as esures commercial relationship with the initial garage ended during this time. 
However, he concluded that esure had dealt with this fairly by compensating Mr O with £550. 
Although it was esures responsibility to rectify any problems with the initial repairs, the 
expert report did not find that the damage following these repairs was accident related and 
esure were not liable to fix any damage amounting to wear and tear. Without an alternative 
report to say the ongoing issues were related to the accident, the investigator was therefore 
satisfied esure had acted fairly and reasonably. 
Following this view, Mr O said that esure had not assessed the car to be able to determine 
the cause of the issues. It was subsequently agreed by both parties that an independent 
assessor would examine the car to assess if the ongoing problems were related to the 
accident in May 2017. 
An independent report was prepared in August 2020 as agreed between the parties. This 
concluded that the repairs undertaken by Mr Os garage did not have any bearing on the 
original collision and subsequent repairs and that the repairs were not attributable to the 
claim. 
As a result of the new report, the investigator found that it still wasnt possible to conclude 
that esure was responsible for the current damage.
Mr O then instructed another company to carry out a further inspection. A summary was 
provided which said that 
This vehicle has been involved in an accident and has been repaired to a very bad 
standard. 
Looking at the history, the vehicle has had more than 4 sets of front disc and pads since the 
accident and is unlikely the quality of the parts fitted are failing. When investigating further I 
found major abs/rear steering faults permanently in the cars ECU. These faults are causing 
other systems to malfunction also. The faults to the abs module is definitely causing the front 
discs to overheat and warp. All these faults should be easily rectified at a main dealer and 
should all be covered under the insurance 
Also all 4 wheel were heavily damaged in the accident but again the repairer has took the 
short be trying to refurbish them [sic]. 
I feel that all the accident damage (including mechanical) has not been rectified by a 
competent repairer. All the faults mentioned can and should of been rectified before the 
customer received the vehicle back, this is a breach of trust and workmanship. [sic]
This report was provided to esure for its comments. It noted that Mr Os report doesnt 
contain the qualifications of the person who inspected the car, so it wasnt able to tell 
whether they were a competent engineer. It also said the report didnt allude to the fact that 
the car has done several thousand miles since the accident and the alloys have been heavily 
damaged again since then. It maintained that it would not take any further action based on 
the report alone.
The investigator considered this report but was unable to say, on balance, that esure was 
responsible for any additional work to the car.
Mr O doesnt agree so the case has come to me to make a decision. He says that his car still has an issue with the brakes which has persisted since the car was returned to him after the 
accident in 2017. Mr O says that the initial repair didnt replace the alloys but they were 
painted over except for one wheel and the paint has come off. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons and Ive explained these further below.
Should the car have been written off
Ive first considered what Mr O has said about the fact that his car should have been written 
off from the outset.
The policy schedule sets out that for loss or damage to the car, esure will either pay to have 
the damage repaired, replace what is lost or damaged if this is more cost-effective than 
repairing it, or settle the claim by a monetary payment. The terms set out that esure will 
decide which of those methods it will use to settle the claim.
Ive looked at the damage report provided by esure. In May 2017, the value of the car was 
estimated to be between £8,920 - £11,690. The report also shows that the total figure for the 
repair in July 2017 was £3,546.25. 
In light of this, it clearly wouldnt have been more cost-effective for esure to write off the car 
instead of repairing it. It is for esure to determine how to settle the claim and I dont find 
esure has acted unreasonably by deciding to do this by paying to have the damage to the 
car repaired. 
Initial repairs carried out in 2017
It was esures responsibility to rectify any problems with the initial repairs. Mr O brought the 
car back to the initial garage later in July 2017 to look at the dashboard steering light. 
Unfortunately, the initial garage closed down in August 2017 so the car had to be moved to 
an alternative garage, which caused a delay in this issue being investigated and rectified. 
When Mr Os car was returned in September 2017, the garage had carried out diagnostic 
checks, erased the fault codes, carried out a road test and deemed everything to be fine with 
the car at that time. 
I can see that there was a delay in the further investigation being carried out following the 
initial repairs due to the initial garage closing down. However, esure gave Mr O £550 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this delay. This covered the cost of the excess Mr O 
had paid for the claim and I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Issues with car following initial repairs in 2017
The policy schedule sets out that the policy doesnt cover loss or damage caused by wear 
and tear or depreciation, or any mechanical, electrical, electronic, computer or computer 
software breakdowns, failures, faults or breakages. 
When Mr Os car was taken back into the garage in October 2017 due to pulling to the left 
and a clicking noise, the issues were deemed to be due to the brake discs and pads being 
worn and in need of replacement. A wheel alignment was also carried out and no issues 
were noted. As the issues were not deemed to be accident or repair related, esure said it 
wouldnt take any further action in relation to paying for these repairs.Although, Mr O has said that the initial repairer didnt replace three of the alloys and just 
painted them, its clear from the damage report provided by esure that the initial repairs 
included replacing or renewing of all wheels and tyres in July 2017. The report included 
some photos provided from after the work was done. The report also noted the pre-accident 
status of the car to be poor. When the car was returned by Mr O the first time in July 2017, 
the garage noted that three of the four wheels had been damaged again and photos are also 
contained in the report showing some of this damage. 
In light of the above, its my view that it was reasonable for esure to rely on what the garage 
had said when deciding how to deal with the claim and whether to pay for the further work. In 
the circumstances of this case I dont think it was unreasonable for esure to conclude that 
the issues arising at this stage were not related to either the accident or the previous repair. 
As esure was not liable to repair damage caused by wear and tear, I think it was reasonable 
for it not to pay for the further repairs at this stage.
Issues with car from 2018 onwards
Ive looked at the invoices from Mr Os garage from September 2018, September 2019 and 
December 2019. There is nothing in these invoices to show that the issues arising were 
related to the accident in May 2017. By the time of the former invoice, the accident had been 
a year and four months earlier. By the time of the latter, it had been two years and seven 
months earlier and the documentation show that the mileage was over 22,000 higher than 
the time of the accident.
When an independent report was obtained following the investigators view, the author 
concluded that the repairs and replacements carried out since the initial repairs didnt have 
any bearing on the original collision and werent attributable to the claim. The author also 
noted that the car had significant kerbing impacts around all four alloy wheels and tyres. 
These were all As New following the initial repairs. The vehicle has also covered a further 
22000 miles since initial repair.
In light of these reports, I find that the position hadnt changed since 2017, as there was still 
no evidence to support the fact that the ongoing repairs had been attributable to the 
accident. 
I have considered the most recent report provided by Mr O and, like esure, I note that the 
qualifications of the author have not been provided. But even if this information had been 
provided, its not clear what information was given to him prior to the report being carried out. 
The author has noted the issues with the replacement of the brake discs and pads since the 
accident and the ABS and steering faults in the cars ECU, which are causing other systems 
to malfunction and the front discs to overheat and warp. Whilst the author has said that the 
car has been repaired to a poor standard and that the faults should all be covered under the 
insurance, he hasnt actually said that the faults identified were caused by the accident. 
The car has now done 22,000 miles since the accident subject to the claim and that the 
wheels were noted to have been damaged again shortly after being returned to Mr O; neither 
of which have been addressed by the author. So on balance Im not persuaded that this 
report shows that the further damage was caused by the accident or that esure is 
responsible for any additional repairs. 
In summary, the repairer appointed by esure In October 2017 looked at the damage to Mr 
Os car. I think that it was reasonable for esure to rely on the repairers comments when 
deciding how to deal with the claim. Ive also seen the report prepared by the independent 
examiner which concludes that the further repairs were not related to the accident in May 2017. So I cant say esure has acted unfairly and unreasonably in coming to the decision it 
has. I note Mr O has provided his own report, but my role is to decide whether esure has 
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. I think it has as nothing I have seen 
persuades me that the findings of the repairer in October 2017 (or the independent expert in 
August 2020) are incorrect or that it was unreasonable for esure to rely on its engineers 
report.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr O, but I can't fairly say that esure 
has acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case. So I won't be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont require esure Insurance Limited to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman