DRN-3214672
The complaint
Mr V, a sole trader, complained about National Westminster Bank Plc. He said:
- there were problems resulting in several CHAPS payments being delayed, which 
resulted in financial losses; and 
- he had poor service from his relationship manager, who failed to resolve the problem 
despite repeated promises and much chasing.
Mr V wants more compensation than NatWest has offered hm for the financial losses and 
stress this caused him.
What happened
On 18 December 2020, Mr V planned to send payments electronically but couldnt do so 
because of a password error. He rang NatWests helpdesk, and the adviser told him to try a 
different password. On the third attempt, Mr V said that if he did, hed be locked out it if were 
wrong. The adviser told him not to worry, as they could unlock it. Mr V tried again and was 
locked out, but the adviser then checked with a colleague who said that Mr V was right.  
Nothing could be done until a new password arrived with Mr V by post in four or five days 
time.
Mr V needed to send the payments, so he felt he had no option but to leave work and cancel 
a weekend away, and he went to a branch to try to carry out manual transfers there. Early 
the next morning, a Saturday, Mr V went to a different NatWest branch and manually 
completed CHAPS forms for three more payments. He was told these would go on the 
Monday.
Only one payment went out on the Monday, and Mr V contacted his relationship manager. 
The relationship manager promised that the payments would go out, but they didnt until the 
Tuesday.
So three of the six payments hadnt gone through promptly.  These were:
- a payment for around £341,000 instructed on 18 December;
- a payment for around £364,000 instructed on 18 December;
- a payment for around £903,000 instructed on 21 December.
Mr V complained. NatWest spoke to Mr V, and apologised for the poor service hed received 
in relation to his payments and from his relationship manager. NatWest offered Mr V £200 
compensation for the overall trouble and upset caused, but Mr V wasnt willing to accept this. 
He pointed out that as one of the payments had been for a mortgage which had been 
redeemed three days late, hed been charged additional interest which he couldnt pass on 
to his client. NatWest asked for evidence and said it would look at reimbursing the costs. It 
promised to confirm the conversation in writing. Theres an email dated 23 December, but it 
appears from later events that Mr V didnt receive this.
By 19 January, Mr V hadnt had confirmation and he asked his relationship manager to 
provide details of the complaints department. The relationship manager said the person 
dealing with your complaint hasnt put any notes on the system, so it looks as though no call 
ever took place. Mr V assured his relationship manager that the call had taken place, and 
told him what had been said.
On 20 January, Mr V did get a call from the person who had verbally offered him £200 and 
had said he could provide evidence of his financial losses resulting from the delayed 
payments. But she said shed been waiting for Mr V to contact her, even though Mr V said 
he had no contact details for her. And she said that although NatWest would consider Mr Vs 
financial losses, there was no certainty. Mr V asked for immediate reimbursement of the 
CHAPS costs, but the adviser asked when theyd taken place. The adviser said shed email 
Mr V, but two weeks later he told his relationship manager that hed still heard nothing. 
Mr V chased his relationship manager in late February and early March. On 4 March, the 
relationship manager told Mr V that he was moving to another job within the bank, and Mr V 
would soon be contacted by a new relationship manager.
Mr V contacted this service. He also provided evidence of £291.09 extra which had been 
charged for three days from 18 December, and evidence showing that Mr V hadnt passed 
on this charge to his client.
Our investigator upheld Mr Vs complaint. He said that there didnt appear to be any dispute 
that NatWest agreed Mr V had had poor service, and that £200 had been offered together 
with an offer to reimburse the extra interest Mr V had had to pay on the late mortgage 
redemption. 
The investigator commented that it wasnt clear why the January to March 2021 emails 
showed that Mr Vs relationship manager couldnt find a record of the banks discussions 
with Mr V, nor did he seem to have seen NatWests offer. 
The investigator thought NatWest should pay Mr V:
- £291.09 for the financial loss for the extra interest charged;
- A refund of all CHAPS fees charged; and
- £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  This took into account the high 
value of the transactions, Mr Vs time on the phone and the inconvenience of having 
to make two visits to a branch, the errors that meant the relationship manager 
couldnt see that an offer had been made and overall delays, plus resulting damage 
to Mr Vs business reputation with his client.
 
There was further correspondence, and NatWest agreed. It agreed to pay £132 for all the 
CHAPS payment fees, although only three had been delayed. But Mr V said the first person 
hed spoken to had said all would be refunded, because hed had to go to a branch in 
person. So NatWest agreed to refund the fees for all six.
Mr V didnt accept this. He wanted more compensation and said he remained most unhappy 
with the compensation suggested. He also said that the total of the CHAPS fees should be 
£134 not £132. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What happened here isnt disputed. NatWest has also agreed to refund Mr V for all the 
CHAPS fees at the relevant time. As Mr V has disputed the amount, I checked this with NatWest and it confirmed that the correct figure was £132.  Ive seen the statements which 
show three £21 fees and three £23 fees, which total £132. NatWest also agreed to refund Mr 
V £291.09 for the interest he was charged because the mortgage redemption payment was 
paid three days late.
So the outstanding issue for me to consider is how much compensation is fair and 
reasonable for NatWest to pay Mr V for the distress and inconvenience he suffered as a 
result of:
- incorrect advice about logging on, which meant Mr V couldnt make the payments 
himself and had to go to a branch instead;
- the failure of three CHAPS payments to go through in a timely way; and 
- the system and customer service issues which led to Mr Vs relationship manager not 
being able to see previous discussions and the confusion Ive set out above.
Mr V set out the different aspects of his claim for compensation when he complained to this 
service. As well as the extra interest which he was charged for the late payment, which has 
been agreed, Mr V said his claim included the following:
- he said he was told NatWest would waive bank charges when he was offered £200 
compensation, but this hadnt happened;
- he couldnt provide evidence to show hed taken the Friday off when this happened, 
but he said hed had to cancel a booking to go to a wedding in a different part of the 
country, though he didnt have evidence of the hotel cancellation. Hed had to go in 
person to branches on the Friday, Saturday and Monday to deal with the payments;
- the stress and inconvenience caused was horrendous, but despite this NatWest had 
refused any compensation whatsoever. He said his relationship manager had said he 
couldnt do anything, and there was no record until hed forced the issue. Even then, 
NatWest hadnt provided compensation or a response. Mr V said NatWest hadnt 
acted reasonably or fairly and should be fined.
Ive taken Mr Vs comments, and the documentary evidence, into account when deciding 
how much compensation would be fair and reasonable. First, Id point out that it isnt the role 
of this service to fine businesses.  Thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). 
I accept that the experience caused frustration to Mr V.  What started out as a login problem 
became a much more significant problem, with multiple CHAPS payments being delayed. 
These were for large amounts, all relating to his business, and the efficient operation of 
these payments would have had the potential to impact on his relationship with his clients.  
Mr V also had to go to a branch in person several times, which was inconvenient, though I 
cant take into account the fact he said hed had to cancel going to a wedding, because Mr V 
hasnt been able to provide evidence of this.
I also consider that an aggravating factor was the problems throughout early 2021, when Mr 
V was trying to get confirmation of a verbal offer, and find where to send evidence of the 
financial loss resulting from the late mortgage payment. Its odd that the documents supplied 
to this service include a final response email dated 23 December 2020, but Mr V appears not 
to have received this, and the relationship manager couldnt see it on file. Mr V was 
understandably annoyed when the relationship manager said the person dealing with your 
complaint hasnt put any notes on the system, so it looks as though no call ever took place.
On the other hand, Ive seen no evidence that the call handler promised Mr V that NatWest 
would waive its bank charges. I think there may have been confusion with the CHAPS 
charges.  As the CHAPS payments didnt go through as normal, I think its right the fees should be refunded. But I dont agree that the fee for Mr Vs normal business banking should 
be waived, because compensation is more appropriately dealt with by the CHAPS fee and 
by distress and inconvenience. Waiving bank charges as well as these would be double-
counting.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider that a fair and reasonable figure for the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience would be £300.  Thats in addition to the 
payments for financial loss, which Ive set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order National Westminster Bank Plc to 
pay Mr V:
- £291.09 for the extra interest he was charged for the late mortgage payment;
- £132  for the CHAPS fees for the payments at the relevant time; and 
- £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience which all the problems 
caused to Mr V.
It appears that NatWests offer of £200 hasnt yet been paid because Mr V refused it. If it 
has, however, or if either of the other two payments have been made, they should be 
deducted from the figure now due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman