DRN-3947747
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as J complains that ClearBank Limited wont refund payments 
it didnt make 
Mr K, who is a director of J, brings the complaint on Js behalf.
ClearBank partners with Tide to provide accounts for its customers. For ease, Ive generally 
referred to ClearBank throughout the decision as its ultimately responsible for the complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), the starting position is 
that ClearBank is liable to refund payments J didnt authorise. 
ClearBank has seemingly accepted these disputed payments were unauthorised. I 
agree. Its clear Mr K didnt go through the agreed steps to consent to these 
payments using Apple Pay, which is whats needed to regard a payment as 
authorised in line with PSRs. Instead, he was tricked into completing the process to 
load his card on to someone elses device  and they made the payments.
Under the PSRs, ClearBank can refuse to refund J if it can show that J failed with 
gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep its personalised 
security details safe.
Its unclear if thats what ClearBank is alleging. In its response to Js complaint, it said 
it found Mr Ks thoughts and explanations to be reasonable. But it only offered to 
refund half the money lost. In response to our investigators view that J should be 
refunded in full, it said it was clear from the message sent to Mr K with the one-time 
passcode that it was to add Js card to Apple Pay and that he shouldnt share it. It 
added that Mr K ought to have known the steps for removing a card from Apple Pay, 
and that it doesnt need a one-time passcode. 
Im not persuaded these points demonstrate that Mr K failed with gross negligence. 
Or, in other words, that he acted with very significant carelessness; seriously 
disregarded an obvious risk; or fell so far below what a reasonable person wouldve 
done. 
In saying that, Ive considered Mr Ks understandable belief he was talking with 
someone from Tide, given the information they knew about him and the spoofed texts 
they sent that appeared to come from Tide. I think lots of people wouldve trusted the 
caller in these circumstances. 
I accept that, if Mr K had taken in the entirety of the message, he might have 
questioned sharing the code. But Im mindful its easy to be critical of someones 
actions with the benefit of hindsight. Here, Mr K said he focused on the code to 
share. He explained hed been told they needed to stop a large payment on the 
account, and they needed the code to remove Apple Pay from a fraudulent device. 
So he was understandably panicked and acted in the heat of the moment. He said he 
was also reassured by the timing and sender of the message  he believed he was 
talking to Tide, and when he was told to expect it, a message came through from 
them.   
Considering these circumstances, I can see how he didnt read the message in full 
and instead focussed on the code he believed would protect Js account from fraud. 
In saying that, I note how the code appeared underlined on his phone  making it 
easier to share without reading the context. It follows that I dont think he acted with 
very significant carelessness to conclude he failed with gross negligence. 
ClearBank also suggested he ought to have known the process for removing a card 
from Apple Pay. Firstly, the process its referenced is how to remove it from your own 
device, not someone elses as was the scenario falsely presented here. And either 
way, I wouldnt expect someone to remember technical processes in the heat of the 
moment  so they could immediately question what theyre being asked to do. Again, 
I think this is using the benefit of hindsight to challenge Mr Ks actions. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think ClearBank has shown Mr K failed with gross 
negligence. So I conclude that J isnt liable for the disputed payments and ClearBank 
needs to put things right  by refunding Js losses from these payments alongside 
interest to compensate it for the time its been out of pocket. 
Ive also considered Js non-financial losses. ClearBank ought to have refunded this 
much sooner. And while a limited company cant suffer distress, it can be 
inconvenienced and its reputation can be damaged. Here, the unresolved matter 
meant J struggled to pay staff and its bills. So I also award £100 to reflect this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Js complaint. ClearBank Limited must:
Pay J the total of the unauthorised payments, less any amount recovered or already 
refunded.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay J £100 for its inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Emma SzkolarOmbudsman