DRN-2887556
The complaint
Mr R complains on behalf of S, a limited company, about the way Covea Insurance plc has 
dealt with a claim made under S buildings insurance policy.
  
What happened
S owns a block of flats. In 2018 a nearby retaining wall collapsed into the block, causing 
damage to it. Much of the material the wall had been supporting was released, contributing 
to the building damage and leaving debris on S property.
A claim was made to Covea for the cost of rebuilding the wall, repairing the damage to the 
building, and clearing the site of debris. Covea appointed a loss adjuster and investigated 
the claim.
Covea agreed to repair the damage to the building. It also agreed to pay for scaffolding and 
associated costs with making the area safe and the debris removal required to do so. But 
Covea said the cost of rebuilding the wall wasnt covered. It said the policy is all risks, which 
means all damage is covered unless theres a relevant exclusion in the policy. It considered 
three exclusions meant the policy didnt cover the cost of rebuilding the wall. These were for 
damage caused by wear and tear, defective design, and collapse of the buildings. 
S later arranged for the wall to be rebuilt and the remaining debris to be removed. Covea 
then arranged for the building repairs to be carried out in December 2019. Shortly after, Mr R 
reported problems with those repairs and the structure of the building that he thought Covea 
should resolve. I understand Covea treated this as a new and separate claim and appointed 
a different loss adjuster to handle it.
Unhappy with Coveas response to his complaint, Mr R referred it to this service. Our 
investigator considered Covea had acted fairly when it declined to pay to rebuild the wall. Mr 
R disagreed. An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are other complaints relating to this claim, which have been considered separately. 
That includes the problems Mr R reported with the building after repairs were carried out in 
December 2019. In this decision I will only be considering Coveas decision to decline to pay 
for rebuilding the wall and the associated costs of debris removal.
The policy is on an all risks basis. That means it covers damage, subject to a number of 
exclusions. Theres no dispute the wall was damaged. Covea declined to pay for it based on 
three exclusions. Ill consider each separately. And then the cost of debris removal.
Wear and tear
The policy doesnt cover damage caused by or arising from wear and tear. Covea says this 
means the general degradation of a wall over time isnt covered. Ive considered whether the 
evidence supports Coveas view that the wall collapsed as a result of wear and tear.
The wall was inspected by a chartered engineer, P, in 2015. Ps report said the wall looked 
uncared for but the wall in general was relatively free of fracturing and there were no major 
distortions or dislocations. It noted there was a localised section of the wall that had been 
damaged by a tree, since removed, and suggested that with repairs the wall should continue 
to perform its function without failure. I understand this section of the wall was rebuilt to its 
original height and design, as suggested by P.
The loss adjuster prepared a number of reports which said there was no evidence of a 
specific insured event. As the policy is all risks theres no requirement for damage to be 
caused by an insured event, such as flood or subsidence, in order for the claim to be 
covered. If theres damage, it falls to the insurer to cover the claim or rely on an exclusion to 
decline it, as Covea has done here. So I understand the loss adjuster meant there wasnt a 
clearly identifiable cause of the collapse.
The loss adjuster took advice from a chartered engineer, R, in 2019. Much of the report 
focused on how to rebuild the wall, but there was also discussion about the cause of the 
collapse. R said it was difficult to determine the main cause of the instability. And whilst there 
were some factors which may have made the wall less stable, it wasnt clear that any of 
them were sufficient to cause its failure. There was no mention of wear and tear or general 
degradation causing the collapse.
None of the experts who inspected the wall after its collapse suggested it was caused by 
wear and tear or gradual degradation. I interpret Ps comments to mean the wall hadnt been 
maintained as well as it could have been. But with repairs, which were carried out, it would 
continue to function as it should. That doesnt give the impression of a wall suffering from 
wear and tear likely to lead to a collapse.
Based on the views of the experts, Im not satisfied Covea has shown the collapse was 
caused by wear and tear.
Defective design
The policy doesnt cover damage caused by or arising from inherent vice, latent defect, 
defective design, plan or specification or the use of faulty materials.
Covea says the wall was once the outside wall of an older structure, suggesting it was never 
designed or built to be a retaining wall. Ive considered whether the evidence supports 
Coveas view that the wall collapsed as a result of a defect in the way it was designed.
P said the wall was Victorian era and unlikely to have been built specifically as a retaining 
wall. As noted above, P didnt have any concerns with its structural stability in 2015. R said 
the wall had performed adequately for possibly in excess of 100 years prior to its collapse.
Given what P has said, I accept Coveas point that the wall may not have not been designed 
to act as a retaining wall. But that doesnt necessarily mean the design of the wall was 
defective or unsuitable to perform adequately as a retaining wall.
The opinion of both experts is that the wall had stood without a problem for over 100 years. 
And three years prior to the collapse it showed no signs of structural failure. I havent seen any evidence from Covea to explain why it thinks the design was defective  or how this 
caused the collapse.
Whilst the wall may not have been intended to act as a retaining wall, Im not persuaded 
Covea has shown the collapse was caused by defective design.
Collapse or cracking of buildings
The policy doesnt cover damage caused by, arising from, or consisting of collapse or 
cracking of the buildings. The policy defines the word buildings to include walls, so this 
exclusion could apply to the retaining wall.
If the wording of the exclusion were to be taken literally, the exclusion would apply because 
theres no dispute the wall collapsed. But to take the exclusion literally would mean any 
cracking or collapse, however caused, would be excluded. And that would effectively mean 
any claim for problems to do with subsidence or structural damage resulting from fire, flood 
or other commonly insured causes would likely be excluded. This would be an unusual and 
significant limitation for a buildings insurance policy  and particularly an all risks one which 
is usually intended to provide more cover than a standard buildings policy. So I dont think it 
would be fair to take the exclusion literally.
I think Covea has recognised that because its explained how it interprets the exclusion. It 
says generic collapse or collapse in isolation of the wall isnt covered. My understanding is 
that if the collapse had been caused by something acting on the wall, for example 
subsidence or impact from a vehicle, it wouldnt consider it fair to decline the claim based on 
this exclusion. But if the wall collapsed due to a weakness within the structure, it would 
consider it fair to decline the claim. Ive considered the available evidence about the cause of 
the collapse to decide whether Covea has shown it would be fair to rely on this exclusion.
Ps 2015 report was written prior to the collapse and at that time didnt have any concerns 
with its structural stability. And R was unable to pinpoint any particular cause for the 
collapse. The loss adjuster was also unable to identify a specific cause.
Mr R told Covea he thought there had been a landslip, possibly resulting from heavy rainfall. 
Covea seemed to accept a landslip problem had caused the wall to collapse. It didnt 
challenge that point. However, it said a fourth exclusion would apply to a landslip problem. In 
summary, the exclusion says damage to walls by landslip isnt covered unless the main 
building is also damaged by landslip at the same time. This is a common exclusion in 
buildings insurance policies.
Covea considers there were two different causes of damage. It said the main building had 
been damaged solely by the falling wall and not the landslip. Mr R considers the collapse of 
the wall and the damage to the main building to be effectively the same, single event. He 
says there was around five seconds between the collapse and the damage to the main 
building.
Mr R received further advice from P in 2019. They said there had clearly been an incidence 
of landslip, noting the material which had previously been supported by the wall was now on 
the ground, extending up to the building. P was clear in their view that the building had been 
damaged by landslip as well as the collapse of the wall. Ive seen photos which show a 
considerable depth of the material, piled up against the building. Im persuaded the photos 
and Ps report support Mr Rs view more than Coveas.
R noted the wall would likely have experienced many wet weather events during the time it 
had stood  many of which would have been more severe than this one was. It accepted a degree of water pressure build up behind the wall would have made the wall less stable, 
although it thought this reduced stability would have been caused by other factors too. And 
overall it didnt think this increased pressure alone had led to the collapse. R hasnt 
mentioned landslip and wasnt persuaded the rainfall was likely to have led directly to the 
collapse. R didnt suggest what they thought did cause the collapse. They didnt, for 
example, say the wall collapsed due to a weakness in its structure.
Taking all the expert opinion into account, Im persuaded landslip was the likely cause of the 
wall collapse. And Im satisfied landslip damaged the wall and the main building at the same 
time, so the landslip exclusion doesnt apply. As a result Im satisfied a cause acting on the 
wall has been identified. That means Covea hasnt shown the wall collapsed as a result of 
generic collapse or collapse in isolation. It follows that Im not persuaded it would be fair 
for Covea to rely on the collapse or cracking exclusion to decline the claim.
Debris removal
Mr R also claimed for the cost of debris removal, site clearance and making the site safe. I 
understand all the invoices initially submitted for scaffolding and making the site safe soon 
after the collapse have been paid by Covea.
Some of the debris was beneath the scaffolding and in the area where the failed wall was 
being supported. It couldnt be safely removed until work to rebuild the wall began. Covea 
accepted that meant some further debris removal costs would be incurred when the work 
began. It asked Mr R to provide evidence of these costs when the work was carried out.
The work has been carried out and Mr R has provided information about the costs involved, 
although I understand some are being finalised with the contractor. At the time of the 
complaint, part of the dispute was about which costs were for removing the debris that 
couldnt be removed before  and which were to do with facilitating the repair of the wall. 
Given my findings above, Im satisfied all the debris removal should form part of the 
accepted claim.
Responses my provisional decision
Mr R said S accepted my provisional decision but had some further points to raise. In 
summary:
Coveas decision to decline the claim caused a lot of concern, stress and worry for 
members of S.
S had a number of emergency meetings to plan how to fund and repair the wall.
If Covea had accepted the claim, Mr R considers much of this would have been 
avoided, so hed like Covea to pay compensation.
£479.25 was paid towards Ps 2019 report.
I suggested Covea pay £479.25 for Ps report  and £500 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. Mr R said S accepted this, although he noted the level of 
compensation didnt reflect the amount of effort members of S had put into the claim.
Covea didnt agree with my provisional decision or subsequent suggestion. In summary:
Ps report cant be relied upon because it was based on a limited one-off superficial 
inspection for another party. Its not objective and not supported by periodic 
inspections or measurements.Mr R didnt commission the report, so P owed him no duty of care and made merely 
superficial statements not supported by any engineering basis.
A retaining wall must be specifically designed to act as a retaining wall and pass 
Building Regulations. The wall wouldnt pass this kind of test.
Although the wall had stood for many years, that doesnt mean it cant eventually 
collapse due to self-failure.
The failure of the wall and the damage to the building are two separate and distinct 
causes of damage. The building was only damaged because it was in the falling 
zone of the wall.
The collapsed wall should be reviewed by an industry recognised expert.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea relied on policy exclusions to decline the claim. And that means the onus is on Covea 
to show that at least one of those exclusions apply. In my provisional decision, I wasnt 
satisfied it had done that. In its response, Covea hasnt provided any further evidence or 
expert opinion into the cause of the damage. Ive thought about the points its made. But I 
havent been persuaded to change my mind. Ill explain why.
Ps report
Covea has set out a number of reasons why it doesnt think I should rely on Ps report. Ive 
considered what its said. But I havent been persuaded to disregard this evidence.
Ps reports were written by a chartered civil engineer who is a member of a relevant 
professional body. Im satisfied that means the opinions P expressed are objective and 
provided by a suitably qualified and experienced engineer. So I dont think it matters who 
commissioned P. Its the content of the report thats important.
Whilst Ps findings were based on a single structural inspection, I dont consider that makes 
them unreliable. Covea provided reports from its loss adjuster and R, which I understand 
were also primarily based on visual inspection. R took a number of measurements but 
seemingly in order to recommend a replacement wall, rather than to assess the cause of 
failure. And in any case, R was unable to determine a cause. So I dont think Coveas 
reports were informed by significantly greater levels of investigation or inspection than Ps 
was. My findings based on Ps report still stand.
Building Regulations
Covea accepts the wall had stood the test of time for many years but maintains it could still 
have collapsed due to defective design. I accept that possibility in principle. But for Covea to 
rely on the defective design exclusion, it would have to persuade me this is whats likely to 
have happened  not merely that it was possible.
To do that, Id usually expect it to show what the relevant regulations were at the time the 
wall was built or first used as a retaining wall  and how the wall failed to meet these 
regulations. Covea hasnt done either of these things. Its told me the wall wouldnt have 
passed the same tests the replacement wall has. Even if that was the case, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to judge the design of a wall that was built around 100 years ago by the 
standards of today.Covea insists that because the wall wasnt designed as a retaining wall, it must have been 
defective. But without any reference to the regulations that might have applied to a retaining 
wall at the relevant time, Im not satisfied thats the case.
Was the building damaged by landslip
Coveas response on this point is essentially the same argument I considered in my 
provisional decision. It says the building wasnt damaged by the landslip  only the falling 
masonry from the collapsed wall.
Ive reconsidered this point. But Im not persuaded Coveas view is supported by the expert 
evidence or the photos, which show a significant amount of material up against the building. 
And with no new evidence provided, Im satisfied the landslip damaged the building for the 
same reasons as I outlined in my provisional decision.
Further expert evidence
Covea has offered to pay for an expert to review the cause of the wall collapse. If the expert 
evidence currently available was unclear, contradictory or equally persuasive, I may find that 
a reasonable way to resolve the complaint. But for the reasons above, Im satisfied it can be 
fairly resolved on the evidence already available.
Its now around two and a half years after the claim was made. And around two years since 
Covea considered this complaint. So I think its had a reasonable amount of time to look into 
the cause of damage and take expert advice.
The wall was replaced in 2019. That means the expert would be unable to inspect the 
damage  or carry out the kind of periodic inspections, measurements or investigations 
Covea considered P ought to have done. In these circumstances, I think its unlikely a further 
review would add significantly to the evidence already available.
Putting things right
As Im not satisfied Covea has shown any exclusions apply, it should accept the claim.
And as Ps 2019 report was a significant factor in the outcome of the claim, I think it would 
be fair for Covea to pay £479.25 for it.
Mr R has described the situation members of S faced when the claim was declined and they 
were left to take steps to fund the replacement of the wall themselves. It was a significant 
cost, so I can understand why it caused them difficulties.
I can consider whether a policyholder should be compensated for any distress and 
inconvenience caused by an insurer when declining a claim unfairly. Here thats S, which is 
a limited company. That means its a separate legal entity from the people who run it. Whilst 
those people may have suffered distress, the company S didnt. But a company can suffer 
inconvenience which should be compensated for if, for example, it had to spend more time 
than it usually would, as a result of something the insurer did wrong.
Im satisfied S was caused inconvenience as a result of Covea unfairly declining the claim. 
Its clear members of S held more meetings than it usually would and had to spend time 
planning and arranging to fund the wall  which it wouldnt have done had Covea accepted 
the claim.Mr R has explained the stress and worry he and other members of S felt after Covea 
declined the claim. Whilst I dont doubt that was the case, given what Ive said above, I cant 
take that into consideration when deciding what level of compensation is fair to award. 
Overall, I think £500 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Covea Insurance plc to:
Accept the claim for the collapsed wall and debris removal, subject to the terms and 
conditions of the policy
Pay £500 compensation
Pay £479.25 for Ps 2019 report
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman