DRN-3170924
The complaint
Miss H and Mr G complain that Landmark Mortgages Limited should not have given them a 
mortgage.
What happened
In February 2007 Miss H and Mr G took out a mortgage with a lender, which has since 
become part of Landmark Mortgages Limited. For clarity Ill just refer to Landmark in my 
decision. They borrowed £158,045 (including fees) on an interest only basis over a term of 
25 years. They also took out an unsecured loan, which was linked to the mortgage, at the 
same time from the same lender. The unsecured loan was for £8,275. This was borrowed on 
a capital and interest repayment basis, also over a term of 25 years.
Miss H and Mr G were advised to take the mortgage and loan by an independent third-party 
broker. 
In 2019 Miss H and Mr G complained to Landmark. They said they were unhappy with how 
the mortgage had been sold. They said the mortgage was not suitable for them. They 
believed the adviser didnt properly establish their circumstances or check whether the 
mortgage was affordable. They also said they hadnt been given clear information about the 
cost or alternative options.
Landmark responded and said it was not responsible for the advice given. This was the 
responsibility of the broker and it said Miss H and Mr G should refer their concerns to the 
broker. It said, as the lender, it had no reason to doubt the information given in the 
application. So, it thought it acted fairly by providing the mortgage.
Miss H and Mr G asked our service to review their complaint. They clarified that they 
believed Landmark was at fault as they dont think the mortgage should have been provided. 
They explained that theyd been turned down by other lenders at the time. So, they thought 
Landmark should have questioned if the information from the broker was potentially 
incorrect. They said that Miss H had spoken to Landmark as part of the application, so it had 
gathered information directly. And they believe it should not have lent. They said Landmark 
actually offered them a higher unsecured loan. But Miss H and Mr G declined this as they 
felt they wouldnt be able to afford it. They felt this showed it hadnt acted responsibly. 
Miss H and Mr G said theyd struggled to afford the mortgage from the start and explained 
they had cut back spending in all other aspects of their life, just to maintain the mortgage 
payments.
One of our Investigators considered the merits of the complaint. He explained that Landmark 
was not responsible for the suitability of the advice to take the mortgage. So, his findings had 
focused on whether Landmark acted responsibly when providing the mortgage and loan.
He reviewed the information provided by both parties. Having done so he thought Landmark 
had acted responsibly when providing the loan. It had recorded information at the time about 
Miss H and Mr Gs income and outgoings. He noted Miss H and Mr G now disputed the 
accuracy of some of those figures. But he didnt consider Landmark had any reason to 
question the information it was given at the time. And these figures indicated the mortgage 
was affordable. 
Miss H and Mr G did not agree. They reiterated that Miss H had spoken to Landmark at the 
time of the application. Miss H said the call had been casual in nature, despite the 
importance of what was being discussed. And she said she had been prompted by 
Landmark to guess or estimate figures during the call where she didnt have information. 
She said shed felt compelled to answer. And she hadnt understood what she said would be 
used by Landmark when deciding to lend without any follow up calls. So, she and Mr G 
didnt agree that Landmark had acted correctly, particularly considering other lenders had 
declined their application for a mortgage.
Our Investigator noted that Landmark had no record of speaking to Miss H about the income 
and expenditure figures used in the application. And, as a broker recommended the 
mortgage, thought it was more likely that any conversations took place with the broker. But 
whether the conversation had been between Miss H and Landmark or the broker, he still 
though Landmark had acted responsibly. He didnt consider there was anything unusual in 
the information provided to Landmark at the time. So, he didnt believe Landmark wouldve 
had any reason to doubt or question what it had been told. And its decision to lend was 
reasonable  based on what it was told.
Miss H and Mr G remained unhappy with our Investigators opinion. They said that records 
kept by businesses are not always correct and they were adamant that a call did take place 
between Miss H and Landmark. And they still felt it had acted irresponsibly. So, they asked 
for their case to be reviewed again. As a result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H and Mr Gs mortgage was taken out in February 2007. And their complaint is about 
Landmark agreeing to lend and whether this was right. So, it relates to the lending decision 
taken in 2007.
Firstly, its important to say, given how long ago the mortgage was taken out, not all 
documentation from the time is still available. Which is reasonable. Business are not 
required to retain information indefinitely. Where information is unavailable or incomplete, I 
have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities. This means deciding what is most 
likely to have happened, based on the evidence I have seen.
And when considering if Landmark did anything wrong, I have to consider the rules and 
regulations that were in place when the mortgage was granted in 2007. I cant 
retrospectively apply regulations or requirements from now.
The rules around mortgage regulation are found in the Mortgage and Home Finance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOBS). These are set by the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority.At the time the mortgage was taken out in 2007, these rules explained that the party selling 
the mortgage was responsible for checking its suitability for the borrowers. The seller was 
also responsible for checking affordability. A broker was involved in the sale of this 
mortgage. So, the broker was the party selling the mortgage. Which means that broker was 
responsible for ensuring that the mortgage was suitable and affordable. And I cant hold 
Landmark accountable for the brokers responsibilities.
Landmark, as the lender, did have an underlying duty to lend responsibly. That is what I will 
be looking at and deciding  whether Landmark lent responsibly. Again though it is important 
to note that the relevant rules within MCOBS, applicable at the time, explained that this just 
entailed checking the ability of the borrowers to repay. Landmark was entitled to rely on the 
information provided to it by the selling party. And Landmark was not required to verify any 
of that information, unless it had reason to think the information was wrong.
Miss H and Mr G have said that other lenders refused to provide them with a mortgage. So, 
this shouldve made Landmark question the information provided to it as part of the 
application. But I dont agree. There isnt any indication in the information Ive seen that 
Landmark was aware that other lenders had declined an application from Miss H and Mr G. 
But even if it was, all lenders set their own lending criteria. So, Landmarks would be 
different to other lenders that had been approached. So, I dont consider that other lenders 
being unwilling to provide a mortgage means Landmark was wrong to do so. Or means that 
it shouldve been sceptical of the information provided as part of the application  as its 
criteria was likely to be different anyway.
Miss H and Mr G have told us that they met with their broker in person and that Miss H was 
later called by Landmark.
The information Landmark holds in relation to the application itself is limited. For example, 
the application form itself is no longer available. But Landmark has been able to provide its 
system and contact notes from the time, covering the duration of the application. It says 
these notes show, amongst other things, the information contained within the application.
The first notes Landmark holds relate to all of the details in the application itself. They 
summarise Miss H and Mr Gs personal information, details of the mortgage they were 
applying for, the property that was being purchased and their incomings and outgoings. The 
notes also include questions for the broker, including how the application was made  with 
face to face having been recorded. This is in line with what Miss H and Mr G have told us, 
that they met the broker in person, first. 
Overall, Im satisfied that these initial notes likely represent information provided by the 
broker, within the mortgage application.
Based on this information, it was reasonable for Landmark to conclude that Miss H and Mr G 
would be able to meet the mortgage payments. Information about their salary was included. 
As were details of their outgoings. This showed that they had sufficient disposable income to 
meet the mortgage payments. And the information also suggested Miss H and Mr G 
wouldve been able to meet higher payments - if the interest rate applicable to the mortgage 
increased.
Miss H and Mr G have said that Landmark initially offered them a higher unsecured loan 
than they ended up taking. And they believe this shows it was irresponsible. But the 
information about their disposable income suggested that they had a surplus available. And 
this was even after the monthly payments required to service this mortgage were taken into 
account. This suggested they could afford higher repayments and to borrow more. Based on 
this, Landmark initially discussing a higher unsecured loan appears reasonable.Landmark also appears to have been told by the broker that Miss H and Mr G intended to 
sell the property to repay the capital balance of the mortgage at the end of the term. Again, 
Landmark wasnt responsible for looking at whether this was suitable. That was the 
responsibility of the broker. Landmark was only required to check that Miss H and Mr G 
could repay the mortgage. And this suggestion for how they intended to do so at the end of 
the term appears reasonable.
I also dont consider any of the information recorded about income and expenditure was 
unusual to the point that Landmark ought to have had reason to think it was wrong. The 
recorded figures for income appear realistic. Given what Landmark knew of Miss H and 
Mr Gs position at the time  that this appeared to be their first mortgage  Landmark did not 
appear to have had any reason to question the figures provided for outgoings. So, I consider 
it was entitled to rely on the information provided as being accurate. And, based on the 
requirements of it at the time, I dont believe it was obliged to verify this further.
Landmarks notes indicate, even though it wasnt required to, that it did take steps to verify 
Miss H and Mr Gs income figures. There are notes which explain that, before the application 
could proceed, it wanted to see payslips and valid P60 forms and that this was explained to 
the broker. And there are notes from several days later saying that this information had been 
confirmed. 
Miss H and Mr G have said, albeit in relation to a separate point, that notes held by a 
business are not always accurate. And I agree  system notes stored by a business arent 
always completely accurate. But I havent seen any evidence that leads me to conclude 
these notes were not accurate. 
Miss H and Mr G have said that they now dont believe the information about incomings and 
outgoings was correct. Theyve estimated that their outgoings in 2007 wouldve been 
significantly higher. And theyve said they think their income may have been less than 
stated. Miss H has provided a bank statement from approximately six months after the 
mortgage was taken. This shows a payment to the account, which Miss H has explained was 
her salary.
Ive thought carefully about what theyve said. Im conscious though that the figure theyve 
given now for what they think their outgoings were, is an estimate. Which theyve said it is 
based on their current expenditure. And I dont consider itd be reasonable, based on this 
estimate, to say that Landmark was wrong at the time to accept the information it was given. 
If the credit on the bank statement provided was Miss Hs total monthly wage, and was the 
same for twelve months, this suggests her annual salary was less than noted at the time of 
application. But this bank statement is from after the mortgage was taken out. And it only 
shows a single credit. So might not have reflected Miss Hs annual wage. And as Ive said, 
the information available from the time indicates that Landmark required payslips and P60 
details before agreeing to lend. This was in order to verify the income details it was given. 
And all of this notwithstanding, as Ive explained, Landmark had no reason to question the 
information it recorded at the time. And Im satisfied this information represents what the 
broker likely provided. So, based on what Ive seen, I believe Landmark acted responsibly 
when it agreed to lend.
Miss H says that Landmark called her as part of the application to ask her about her and 
Mr Gs finances. Miss H has said the tone of the call was very casual. But Landmark 
prompted her to give answers immediately even if she didnt know what the answer was. 
As a result, she may not have given Landmark the right information. And she says that this 
means that Landmark didnt make its decision based on accurate information. Ive thought carefully about what Miss H has said. Ive seen in Landmarks notes that there 
were several calls with Miss H as part of the application. So, its likely that one of these calls 
was about her and Mr Gs finances. Miss H has said she remembers the call taking place. 
But she doesnt remember exactly what she said about her finances  other than she had to 
estimate some answers. Shes calculated what she thinks her income and outgoings were at 
the time, based on what they are now. But those calculations dont match what was on the 
application  and it was the application that Landmark used to make its lending decision. 
My view is that it is more likely that the figures Miss H gave Landmark in this call matched 
what was said in the application at the time, rather than the figures Miss H has calculated 
now. And that is what Landmark based its lending decision on  the information at the time. 
Ive already said that it was reasonable for Landmark to rely on what it was told unless it had 
good reason to doubt it. And Im satisfied it didnt have good reason to doubt what it had 
been told. 
Miss H has also made us aware of a neurological condition she has that impacts how she 
processes what she is told. Ive taken into account what she has said about her condition 
and how it affects her and what this meant in terms of the discussion with Landmark  
particularly her feeling like she had to provide answers. But Landmark wasnt aware of her 
condition at the time. It didnt know that it might have been better for Miss H if it had done 
things differently  so it couldnt have thought about whether to do so. As it didnt know that, 
it was reasonable for Landmark to call Miss H. And it was reasonable for it to use what she 
told it in the call, as well as what was in the application, in deciding whether to lend.
And so, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss H and Mr G, for the reasons 
Ive explained I consider Landmark has acted responsibly when providing this mortgage.
Miss H and Mr G have said they continue to find it difficult to make the mortgage 
repayments. And they are concerned about what will happen when their interest only term 
ends in 2032. Based on what theyve said, Id expect Landmark to engage with them and 
discuss what support it could provide now  particularly as theyve talked about having 
difficulty making repayments. And Id expect Landmark to contact them proactively, at the 
conclusion of this complaint, to do so. Id also expect, as theyve indicated they are 
concerned by this, Landmark to discuss what options are potentially available to Miss H and 
Mr G regarding of the repayment of the mortgage balance  while there is still a reasonable 
portion of the mortgage term left to run. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman