DRN-3857932
The complaint
Mr F complains that Quidie Limited, trading as Fernovo, lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Quidie, here is a brief table of the loans approved. There is a break in 
the lending after loan 2.
Loan Date Capital Settled Term
(M)Monthly 
repaymentIncome
1 29/10/2019 £250 31/01/2020 3 £128.56 £1400
2 12/03/2020 £300 30/06/2020 4 £111.74 £1400
gap in lending 
3 12/01/2022 £250 02/05/2022 4 £95.76 £2800
After Quidie had issued a detailed final response letter (FRL), in which it gave reasons as to 
why it did not uphold Mr Fs complaint, he referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at it and did not think that Quidie needed to put things right 
for Mr F.
Mr F disagreed and said:
as you can see from my credit report, my financial situation only worsened as I got 
more loans from Quidie. If you look at my credit score, you can see by loan 2 I was in 
a worse situation than before in loan 1. Then, in loan 3 I was in an even worse 
position than the first loan. This should have encouraged Quidie to have some 
concerns.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Quidie needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Quidie should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable, but this does not apply to Mr Fs situation 
s he took too few loans (with a gap in the middle) for there to be any suggestion of repetitive 
lending. 
Quidie was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint.
Loans 1 and 2 were applied for when Mr F was a new customer. They were for relatively 
modest sums and repayable over three or four months. The nature of these sorts of loans is 
that the interest is high but that is a policy matter for the individual regulated lenders and not 
a matter in which the Financial Ombudsman Service gets involved.
 
The proportionate checks for loans 1 and 2 were carried out and it was reasonable for 
Quidie to rely on the information Mr F gave it and its own credit checks. I have reviewed the 
information it had and these loans would have looked affordable. I would not have expected 
Quidie to have done more.
Mr F has sent to us his bank account statements but I would have considered it 
disproportionate for Quidie to have reviewed those. Loan 3 was the first in a new lending chain and I say this because there was a significant 
gap between Mr F paying off loan 2 and him returning to apply for loan 3. 
Added to which, loan 3 was for a relatively modest sum, his salary had increased a great 
deal and had been verified by Quidie. The checks that it carried out were proportionate and 
I would have considered it disproportionate for Quidie to have reviewed any bank 
statements. There was nothing in the credit search results it obtained to lead it to think it had 
to do more before approving the loan.
I realise Mr F will  be disappointed but I do not uphold his complaint. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman