DRN-2409930
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility 
for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs S says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In December 1999 Mrs S opened a store card account. 
In February 2000, PPI was added to her account following a telephone call.
The policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs S owed on her store card and it protected 
Mrs Ss store card monthly repayments if she couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Mrs S disagreed. 
In summary, Mrs S mainly says that she doesnt recall any mention of PPI or any information 
about it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
AXA hasnt been able to provide a call recording or a copy of the call script used at the time. 
So I dont know what it said to Mrs S when the policy was sold. But based on what this 
service knows about the sales process, the purpose of the call was to sell PPI. So it seems 
likely that AXA wouldve taken the opportunity to explain the main features of the policy to 
see if Mrs S wanted to take it out. 
Given that the policy was taken out when shed already had her store card for a couple of 
months, even though she hadnt taken out PPI, I think Mrs S wouldve been aware that the 
policy was optional. 
And looking at Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, I can see that she mightve had a use for 
the policy. (Ill say more about this later).
On balance, I think its likely that the PPI was added to her account during the phone call 
when Mrs S chose to buy the policy offered after hearing about the benefits and deciding 
she wanted PPI to protect her card monthly repayments. 
I dont think AXA advised Mrs S to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Mrs S with clear information 
about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
Looking at the sort of policy that its likely Mrs S had it appears that she was eligible for the 
cover it offered. 
The policy paid out a benefit if Mrs S couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. It couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card until the outstanding 
balance was cleared if she wasnt able to go back to work. This couldve been a useful 
benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mrs S needed to claim as she mightve 
had extra costs if she was ill or disabled and she told us she wasnt entitled to any sick pay 
from work.
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs S if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Looking at everything Mrs S told us about her financial situation at the time, it doesnt appear 
to me that Mrs S had any significant other means she couldve used to cover the store card 
monthly repayments if she wasnt working. So I think Mrs S couldve benefitted from having 
the policy. 
Its possible some of the information AXA gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But I dont think having 
more information about the circumstances in which the policy wouldnt pay out wouldve 
affected her decision to take out PPI. 
I've taken into account how long shed been in her job. But it doesnt look as if there 
wouldve been any reason why Mrs S wouldnt have been able to take advantage of all the 
main policy benefits. 
So, I dont think that knowing more about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put Mrs S off 
taking the policy out.   
I dont know if AXA explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs S to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think its 
likely that if Mrs S had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve 
thought the policy potentially useful given the evident benefits it offered in her particular 
circumstances. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for Mrs S when she 
signed up to have it. And she took it out when she didnt have to, so it seems she wanted the 
cover. 
Looked at overall, I dont think having clearer information wouldve put Mrs S off taking out 
the policy, given her situation at the time.
This means that, even if AXA didnt give Mrs S all the information it shouldve done when it 
sold her the policy, I dont find that Mrs S is worse off as a result of anything that AXA did 
wrong. 
So theres nothing AXA needs to do to put things right.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman