DRN-3670092
The complaint
S, as trustees of the G Trust (the trust) complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
destroyed the original reinvestment bond document.
What happened
The trust has a reinvestment bond with Aviva. In February 2020, a representative for the 
trust applied for a full surrender of the bond and sent in documents including the trust deeds 
as well as the original reinvestment bond document. In March 2020, the trust decided not to 
go ahead with the surrender and cancelled it. The representative asked for the documents to 
be returned.
Aviva wasnt able to return the reinvestment bond document as it had been destroyed after 
being copied onto its system. The trustees complain that Aviva has destroyed trust property 
and has compromised the trustees fiduciary and legal duties.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that Aviva had 
explained it holds a digital copy of the bond document, and it has said the bond and 
ownership hasnt been affected in any way. The Investigator didnt think the trust had 
suffered any detriment.
The trust representative disagreed. He said the deliberate destruction of the original 
reinvestment bond has meant the trust isnt in a position to undertake any surrender of the 
bond, and the trust doesnt hold any legal control in respect to the bond. Ive also noted the 
trust says it has had to pay additional compliance costs and professional fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the trust representatives strength of feeling on this matter, however Ive not 
found that Aviva has caused any detriment. Ill explain why.
The bond document was sent in as part of a surrender request, so Im not surprised that 
Aviva took steps to copy the documents and later destroy it as it had understood the bond to 
be ending. Once cancellation of the surrender was requested, it was discovered that the 
bond document had been destroyed. Aviva explained that it didnt need to hold the physical 
copy. It said that the digital copy was on file, and it wouldnt impact any future surrender.
Ive seen the surrender document that the trust representative completed initially has a 
declaration page when original policy documents are missing, and Aviva confirmed to the 
representative in a phone call that it holds a digital copy on file. It says that ownership is 
proven with the trust deeds and that the destruction of the document  which Aviva has said 
wasnt an original  wont affect any surrender of the bond.
I cant be sure whether the policy schedule was an original or a copy, but Im persuaded that 
the digital copy is held with Aviva. I can see that the bond is still in existence and it is owned 
by the trust  the trustees of which are set out in a trust deed. Ive not seen any evidence to 
show that the document not being returned has affected the rights of the trustees, or the 
ownership of the bond itself. Aviva has confirmed that the bond can still be surrendered by 
the trustees and Im persuaded that this is the case. 
I have noted the trust representative has said the destruction of the bond document has 
resulted in professional fees and compliance costs but Ive not seen evidence of this. The 
bond is still live, and theres no evidence to show the trust has lost any rights over it due to 
the destruction of the bond document  which Aviva has a digital copy of. Aviva has said it 
would provide a copy upon request and I think this is fair and reasonable. The trust has 
asked for this to be notarised but as I dont think the ownership of the bond has been 
affected, I dont consider it fair to ask Aviva to do this.
Ive not seen anything to suggest that, aside from the efforts of the trustees and trust 
representative in making this complaint, the inability to return the reinvestment bond 
document has caused any detriment. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
The trust representative has said a solution would be for Aviva to pay out the bond proceeds 
 this is something that the trust can explore if it chooses to surrender the bond. And Aviva 
has confirmed that the destruction of the reinvestment bond document wont affect the trusts 
ability to do this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman