DRN-3588359
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) continued to apply charges to 
their account when Mr Y was the subject of an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs Y held a joint account with an arranged overdraft with Santander. In November 
2017 Mr Y entered into an IVA. As the account was a joint account the debt was split and 
Mrs Y became responsible for half the outstanding overdraft balance.
Mr and Mrs Y complained to Santander that charges were still being applied to the account 
despite Mr Y being subject to an IVA. Santander say that as only one of the joint parties was 
the subject of the IVA the account continued to operate as normal and therefore the charges 
applied were correct and in-line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Santander has confirmed that the account is in credit by £8.27 and should Mr and Mrs Y 
wish to close the account they need to inform it where to pay the remaining funds.
Mr and Mrs Y were dis-satisfied with this and brought their complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Ys concerns and reached the conclusion 
that Santander hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs Y disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Mr and Mrs Ys 
complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr and Mrs Y has experienced and see if Santander has 
done anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr and Mrs Y back in the 
position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
And in this case I cant say that Santander has done anything wrong. Both sides agree that 
the account was held jointly. This means they are both equally responsible for the 
management of the account and liable for any outstanding debt. This is outlined in the 
general terms and conditions of the account.
As Mr Y entered into an IVA the outstanding overdraft debt became the responsibility of Mrs 
Y. 
Mr and Mrs Y are unhappy that charges continued to be applied to their account for the use 
of the overdraft facility. But as both parties werent subject to the IVA the account continued 
to run as normal  indeed I can see the account was still being used and transactions were 
still occurring on the account up until early 2020. 
So if the account and the overdraft facility was still being used by Mr and Mrs Y providing 
Santander has only applied charges in-line with the terms and conditions of the account I 
cant say it did anything wrong.
So it follows that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Y wish to close their account with Santander. Santander have told 
us that there is a credit balance on the account and that if Mr and Mrs Y wish to close the 
account it will need the details of another account to transfer the funds to. Mr and Mrs Y 
should get in touch with Santander to provide the required details.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman