DRN-2447307
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, wont refund to him the 
money that he paid for membership of a breakdown recovery service. 
What happened
Mr M used his Barclaycard credit card to pay £135 for annual membership of a motoring 
organisation that provided a breakdown recovery service. He says that he phoned the 
organisation in April 2019 to report a breakdown and it said that it would send an engineer 
but later said that it wouldnt do so. 
He claimed a refund from Barclaycard of the £135 that hed paid for the membership and 
compensation for the trouble that hed been caused. It said that the type of fault experienced 
by Mr Ms car wasnt covered by his membership. But it said that the service that it had 
provided to Mr M was poor so it credited £50 to his account. Mr M wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that he 
couldnt see that the kind of issue that Mr M had with his car was covered under the 
organisations terms and conditions as it wouldnt be classed as a breakdown. So he couldnt 
say that a breach of contract had occurred.
Mr M has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that his car 
was 18 years old, had broken down and wasnt starting and had more than one fault  an 
engine malfunction and an airbag warning light  and he had an appointment for an MOT 
test later that day. He says that the organisation had attended in similar circumstances 
earlier that month.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Barclaycard considered Mr Ms claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 - in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim 
against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ms complaint about Barclaycard, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the motoring organisation 
and that Barclaycards response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ms claim under section 75 
as only a court would be able to do that;
the motoring organisation said that Mr Ms car wasnt broken down and was running 
smoothly so it wouldnt attend and its technical support team would advise him to 
take the car to a garage as an orange warning light isnt something that its patrol 
would be able to fix at the side of the road so the correct procedure was followed;
it also explained why it attended in similar circumstances earlier that month;
Mr M gives a different account of those events but its clear that there were 
conversations between Mr M and the motoring organisation and that, as a result of 
those conversations, it told Mr M that it wouldnt be attending and that he should take 
the car to a garage;
I sympathise with Mr M for the difficulties that he experienced in April 2019 but Im 
not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the motoring organisation in these circumstances;
even if there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the motoring 
organisation, I dont consider that a full refund of Mr Ms annual membership would 
be an appropriate remedy as hes benefitted from his membership;
in some circumstances theres also a right for a credit card provider to make a 
chargeback claim under the applicable scheme rules for a payment made using the 
card  but in Mr Ms circumstances I dont consider that there was a reasonable 
prospect of such a claim being successful or that Barclaycard was required to make 
a chargeback claim;
Barclaycard accepted that it had provided poor service to Mr M and it credited £50 to 
his account  I consider that to be fair and reasonable compensation for any distress 
and inconvenience that he was caused by the poor service that he received; and
other than that service issue, I consider that Barclaycard has responded to Mr Ms 
claim fairly and reasonably so I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to refund to Mr M the £135 that he paid for the annual membership, to pay 
him any other compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman