DRN-3300983
The complaint
Ms S complains about the decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
to terminate her income protection claim. 
What happened
Ms S is covered under her employers group income protection scheme, the aim of which is 
to pay benefit for up to five years in the event that (for the first two years) she cant work in 
her own occupation because of illness or injury. The scheme has a 39-week deferred period. 
In October 2018, Ms S stopped work as shed sadly been diagnosed with cancer and was 
experiencing side effects from the chemotherapy treatment shed been receiving. A claim 
was submitted to L&G, which was accepted. 
Then in March 2021, L&G made the decision to terminate Ms Ss claim as of 11 May 2021. It 
thought the medical evidence supported that she no longer met the policy definition of 
incapacity. Unhappy with this, Ms S brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought L&G ought to have 
contacted Ms Ss oncologist to ask how her symptoms impacted her, rather than Ms Ss 
surgeon. The investigator thought the available evidence didnt support that Ms S could 
return to work. She therefore recommended that L&G reinstate the claim, plus interest. She 
also recommended that L&G pay Ms S £300 compensation for the worry and upset caused 
by terminating her claim. 
L&G didnt agree to our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been passed 
to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy defines incapacity as:
the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from performing 
the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred period.
The policy explains that essential duties means the duties that are normally required for the 
performance of the members insured occupation. 
Our investigator has set out the relevant medical evidence in some detail, so I dont intend to 
repeat that here. Whilst Ive considered all the evidence, Ive only commented on what I 
consider to be most relevant. 
L&G asked Ms Ss plastic surgeon for information about Ms Ss symptoms, and whether 
these impacted her ability to work. In October 2020, the plastic surgeon (Ms H) provided this 
information. She said that Ms S had undergone her latest surgery in January 2020, and she 
had completed her cancer treatment. Ms H thought that since her operation, Ms S had 
healed well  though she hadnt seen her since the operation. 
Ms H further explained that Ms S had been through treatment for cancer, and had been put 
into an early menopause by the endocrine therapy. She said she expected this to leave Ms 
S with a lack of energy, but that she expected Ms S to be able to return to work. Ms H said 
she wasnt aware of any symptoms that Ms S currently had, and that it was difficult to 
suggest when she may return to work as she wasnt aware of any significant symptoms, 
though she pointed out these may have been discussed with Ms Ss oncologist. However, 
from Ms Hs perspective from the reconstruction side of Ms Ss treatment, she said she 
wasnt aware of any long-term problems that would impact Ms Ss ability to return to work.
I dont find Ms Hs evidence to be particularly relevant here. First of all, Ms Hs comments 
were based on her last seeing Ms S in January 2020. That was 14 months before L&G made 
its decision to terminate the claim. Also, Ms S doesnt dispute that she had recovered from 
her reconstructive surgery. Instead, she said that her side effects from her medication 
(mainly neuropathy and fatigue) were the symptoms that prevented her from working. 
Although Ms H made L&G aware that Ms Ss symptoms may have been discussed with her 
oncologist, L&G didnt contact Ms Ss oncologist. 
L&G asked Ms Ss GP for more information. I havent seen a copy of L&G letter to the GP, 
though I see that the GPs answers were only in relation to a shoulder injury that Ms S had. I 
would therefore assume that L&G only asked about the shoulder injury. I note that the GP 
later clarified that they hadnt said that Ms S was fit for work. The GP pointed out that Ms S 
was still suffering the effects of chemotherapy, and had reported neuropathy in both her 
hands and feet which were affecting her everyday life.
In February 2021, an occupational health physician (Dr G) assessed Ms S. Dr G explained 
that Ms S was having side effects from her medication which was significantly affecting her 
sleep. Dr G thought that Ms Ss functional ability was significant impacted and noted that she 
needed a lot of support carrying out daily activities, and said that the sensory impairment 
affecting her hands and fingers (as well as her fatigue) made it difficult for her to use a 
computer. Dr G concluded that Ms S wasnt fit for work in any capacity at that time, as she 
continued to receive treatment and was experiencing significant side effects which impacted 
her general health, daily life and functionality.
L&Gs rehabilitation team thought in January 2021 that Ms S could return to work, however, 
this opinion was formed after a phone call with Ms S, rather than an examination. Also, I 
note the rehabilitation team had concluded that Ms S remained unfit to work at a previous 
review in August 2020, yet it seems to me that Ms S continued to report the same symptoms 
at that time as she did in January 2021.
L&G said that Ms Ss neuropathy in her feet wouldnt impact her ability to undertake her 
sedentary role. It said she hadnt mentioned previously that she had neuropathy in her 
hands. However, I see that Ms S told L&Gs rehabilitation team about this as far back as 
March 2020. 
L&G says that Ms Ss reporting became more restricted after it had decided to terminate her 
claim. It says that previously, Ms S hadnt reported significant restrictions with self-care, 
meal preparations, or walking. 
I accept that Ms S had apparently advised L&Gs rehabilitation team in January 2021 that 
she could carry out self-care and prepare meals, and that this wasnt reflected in Dr Gs report. However, putting aside these points, Dr G had said that Ms Ss sensory impairment in 
her hands (and her fatigue) made it difficult for her to use a computer. Ms S had consistently 
reported these symptoms both before and after L&Gs decision to stop benefit. 
Overall, I agree with our investigator that L&G didnt have sufficient medical evidence to 
conclude that Ms S no longer met the policy definition of incapacity and could return to work.
I think Ms S was caused unnecessary worry and inconvenience as a result of L&Gs decision 
to terminate her claim, as she has been without income since that date. L&G should 
therefore pay her £300 compensation for this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited to reinstate the claim and pay backdated benefit. *Interest should be added 
at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date each benefit payment was due to be paid, 
to the date of settlement.
L&G should also pay Ms S £300 compensation.
*If L&G considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms S how much its taken off. It should also give Ms S a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman