DRN-1250098
The complaint
Mr As complaint is that the damage charges applied by Arval UK Limited at the end of his 
hire agreement were unfair because they didnt consider the value Arval gained as a result 
of him returning the car with a lower mileage than allowed.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr A entered into a hire agreement in May 2016 and in doing so agreed to its terms. 
These set out a maximum mileage allowance but didnt say that a lower mileage use 
would result in a refund. So, while Mr A returned the car at the end of the hire 
agreement having driven around 4,000 miles less than the 24,000 mile allowance, I 
do not find that Arval was required to make a refund to reflect this.
Mr A referred to comments on the Arval website about changing the mileage 
allowance during the hire period and that had he known about this he would have 
reduced the mileage and would have expected lower payments as a result. While I 
understand the point he is making, I cannot say what would have been allowed had 
Mr A requested this or what the outcome of any change would be. 
I note the comments Mr A has made about the refund for unused mileage allowance 
being a fair result but as the agreement was set up with the maximum mileage and 
Mr A had the option to use this and no offer of a refund was provided, I do not find 
that I can require Arval to provide a refund to Mr A because he didnt use his full 
mileage allowance.
When the car was returned at the end of the hire agreement an inspection was 
carried out and damage charges were applied. Considering whether the damage 
charges were applied fairly is a separate issue to the mileage driven.
The terms of the agreement set out that when the vehicle is returned an inspection 
will take place and the hirer will be invoiced for any damage that falls outside of the 
fair wear and tear guidelines set out by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA).
Four damage charges were applied to Mr As account. Two related to scuffs to the 
wheels and two related to dents, one to the wing and one to the door. The BVRLA 
says that scuffs along the rim of the wheel are acceptable provided they are under 
50mm in total. Ive looked at the photographs taken during the inspection, and these 
show the scuffs on both wheels exceed the 50mm limit and therefore I find that these 
fall outside the wear and tear guidelines.
Certain dents are acceptable if they are 15mm or less and not on the swage line. 
Arval has said that the dent to the left wing is on the swage line and based on the 
photograph I accept this. The dent to the door is larger than 15mm. Therefore, I find 
the dents fall outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines.
Because the damage falls outside of the wear and tear guidelines, I do not find I can 
say Arval did anything wrong by applying the charges. The charges are applied to 
reflect the cost of repair or the loss of value due to the damage and based on what I 
have seen I do not find the charges are unfair.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Arval UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman