DRN-4400377
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) treated him unfairly when applying 
interest to his personal loan following a payment holiday.
What happened
Mr F is self-employed as a director of his own business. He had various personal and 
business accounts with Barclays including a personal loan and a personal current account 
with an overdraft facility.
During the Covid 19 pandemic Mr F' says his business was financially affected, and this in 
turn had an impact on his personal finances, as he wasn't able to pay himself a salary.
Mr F took a three-month payment holiday on his personal loan, which came to an end in May 
2021, so he needed to resume payments from then.
Within a couple of months of this, Mr F fell behind with payments to his personal loan and 
also exceeded the set overdraft limit on his personal current account. He says this wouldn't 
have happened if his business had been approved for a government backed loan (the loan), 
it had applied for from Barclays.
Barclays contacted Mr F on several occasions, starting in July 2021, to discuss his arrears 
and offer to set up a payment plan to help him get back on track. Mr F refused to engage 
with Barclays about setting up a plan, continuing to reiterate that this problem had only 
arisen due to Barclays declining the loan.
Barclays passed Mr Fs accounts to its collection team, and in October 2022, it withdrew his 
overdraft facility. In January 2023, he agreed to a twelve-month payment plan to clear the 
arrears on his personal loan. 
At the same time, he raised a complaint about interest being added to the personal loan 
during the payment holiday. Barclays didnt uphold his complaint, it said it had provided 
information about the payment holiday to Mr F when he applied for it. And again when the 
payment holiday was coming to an end. 
Mr F remained unhappy with Barclays answer on this and so brought his complaint to this 
service. At this time, he also said he felt Barclays had contributed to his financial difficulties 
by declining his business the loan. He felt Barclays hadnt acted in his best interest as his 
personal accounts had higher interest rates than what the loan would have had. So he felt 
this played into Barclays decision to decline the loan.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld, in 
summary he said:
Mr F hadnt complained that Barclays had acted incorrectly on his personal accounts. And 
his complaint centred more around Mr Fs opinion that there had been a conflict of interest 
when considering his business application for the loan. He didnt agree there was a conflict 
of interest and he felt that Barclays had acted fairly when dealing with his personal accounts.
Mr F disagreed, he made further arguments about the conflict of interest and why he felt 
Barclays should have approved his business application for the loan. The matter has now 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
To be clear this decision relates only to Barclays treatment of Mr F in regard to his personal 
accounts. His businesss complaint about Barclays decision to decline the loan is being 
looked at under a separate complaint, by another Ombudsman. I dont believe the outcome 
of this complaint is reliant on the outcome of his business complaint. As such I have only 
considered what happened with Mr Fs personal accounts.
Mr Fs complaint to Barclays was that he felt it was unfair of Barclays to have added interest 
to his personal loan, following a payment holiday he took. Barclays said Mr F was provided 
with information about this at application stage and when the payment holiday was coming to 
an end.
I have seen from the contact notes Barclays provided, Mr F agreed he was given the 
information on both of the occasions mentioned, but that he was dissatisfied with the 
information. So, what I have to decide is, not if Mr F was aware when he entered the 
payment holiday that interest would apply, as it has already been established, he was. But if 
Barclays acted fairly in applying the interest as it had said it would, and if passing his 
accounts to collections was also fair. I think both of the actions mentioned were fair, Ill 
explain.
Mr F accepted when speaking with Barclays he knew of its intention to apply interest to his 
personal loan, following the payment holiday. So, he entered the agreement aware of the 
facts, he didnt dispute the fairness of this at the time and was happy to accept the terms 
offered. He hasnt provided any valid reason why it would later be unfair for Barclays to do 
what it said it would in relation to this account. So, it follows, I dont consider Barclays acted 
unfairly when adding interest, as it had said it would.
Shortly after the payment holiday ended Mr F fell into arrears. I have seen from the contact 
notes that Barclays made considerable effort to speak to Mr F about this and discuss how it 
might be able to help him. Mr F refused to go through his income and expenditure with 
Barclays and refused the offer of a payment plan on multiple occasions  telling Barclays to 
get the business area to approve the loan to solve the issue. 
I have noted that Mr Fs says had Barclays granted the loan to his business he would have 
been able to pay himself a salary and so would have been able to meet his personal 
commitments. But I think it would be useful to explain here, that the personal agreements Mr 
F entered with Barclays are separate to his business agreements. And while I understand 
the point he is making here, it doesnt take away his own responsibility to deal with his 
personal accounts.While I appreciate Mr Fs feelings about the loan both at the time and now, I dont think it 
was reasonable for him to ignore the personal issue and not engage in trying to reach a 
suitable solution to it with Barclays. Had he done so Barclays may have been able to put a 
plan in place to stop his account being referred to its collections department and his facilities 
being withdrawn. Based on the above, Im satisfied Barclays did what it could to put a plan in 
place to help Mr F to get back on track, but he didnt want that help at the time. So, I cant 
fairly say Barclays did anything wrong when limiting his facilities and passing his accounts to 
its collections department.
I know Mr F will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Barclays can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman