DRN-4503545
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance have treated him, following his disposal of a car supplied to him under a conditional 
sale agreement.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr M was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander. He paid an advance payment of £1,000 and the agreement was for £38,000 over 
49 months; with 48 monthly payments of £586.01 and a final payment of £16,946.45.
In November 2022, Mr M entered into a Sale or Return contract with a third party (the 
dealership) to try and sell the car on his behalf and repay the finance with Santander. 
However, the dealership disposed of the car, kept all the sale proceeds, and subsequently 
shut down. Mr M has said the dealership had scammed him, and that the police have told 
him he was one of 40 victims of this scam.
Mr M initially continued to pay the monthly payments to Santander and says he stopped 
paying in August 2023 as he could no longer afford to do so, along with paying for a new car 
and increased home and energy payments. Santander defaulted the agreement and have 
started legal action to recover the outstanding balance on the agreement from him.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and complained to Santander. However, Santander referred to 
the terms of the agreement and said Mr M had breached these by disposing of the car. So, 
Mr M brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said the terms of the agreement Mr M signed were clear in that he needed 
to keep the car in his possession and not sell it. So, while Mr M may have acted in good faith 
when he allowed the dealership to sell the car, he was in breach of the agreement. Given 
this, the investigator thought Santander had acted in line with the standards set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and taken proportionate action with regards to the debt.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Santander had acted quickly once he 
stopped paying the agreement, which he didnt think was proportionate or fair  they gave 
him no time to act and have threatened him with bad credit. He also thought that Santander 
were using all the small print in their terms to catch me out. Mr S also listed the FCA Rules 
and Principles he thought Santander had breached.
Because Mr M didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Where evidence has been incomplete 
or contradictory, Ive reached my view on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it.
The basic facts of this matter arent disputed  the dealership sold the car after being 
instructed to do so by Mr M, and they kept the sale proceeds. While I havent seen anything 
to show me Mr M was the victim of a scam, I dont doubt this was the case. And Ive seen 
that, when Mr M reported this matter to Santander, it was referred to their fraud team.
Ive also seen that Mr M raised a further complaint with Santander in August 2023, about the 
way they investigated his complaint. Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think 
its extremely important for me to set out exactly what Ive been able to consider here. And 
complaint handling is an unregulated activity and so, falls outside of our services jurisdiction 
to consider. So, the way Santander investigated Mr Ms complaint hasnt been considered as 
part of my decision.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr M signed on 20 May 2020. And, within the signature 
box, Santander clearly state the goods will not become your property until you have made 
all of the payments. You must not sell them before then. The terms and conditions of this 
agreement also stated:
3.1 You will become the owner of the goods if you comply with the terms of this 
agreement and have paid the total amount payable under this agreement. Until then 
the goods will belong to us even though you have possession.
4.4 You will not let anyone obtain any rights (including liens) over the goods  you 
will keep the goods in your possession and under your control and will not sell, 
transfer, mortgage, lend or give the goods to anyone.
7 OUR RIGHTS IF YOU BREAK ANY TERM OF THIS AGREEMENT
7.1 [If] you break any other term of this agreement and then fail to comply 
with the default notice that we are required by law to send you, we can either:
7.1.1 treat the agreement as repudiated and terminate this agreement 
under clause 7.2 [and] recover the amounts set out in that clause; or
7.1.2 transfer ownership of the goods to you and recover the amounts 
set out in clause 7.3
Clauses 7.2 and 7.3 both go on to explain how the amount payable under these clauses 
would be calculated.
While Ive noted Mr Ms comments about the small print being used against him, its 
reasonable to expect Mr M to have read the agreement before he signed it, as he agreed to 
be legally bound by the terms. Whats more, I dont think the clauses referred to above were 
printed in such a way, or so small, that its not reasonable for them to be read. As such, I 
dont think Santander have done anything wrong by relying on these terms.Mr M has said he gave up possession of the car to the dealership in November 2022, and in 
doing so he breached the agreement. Santanders case notes show that Mr M removed his 
personalised numberplate from the car in November 2022, and Mr M asked them in 
December 2022 if the dealership had settled the finance yet.
In March 2023, a third party contacted Santander to advise them theyd purchased the car, 
but there was still finance outstanding on this; and in April 2022, the DVLA advised 
Santander of another change in numberplate on the car. The third party contacted 
Santander again in May 2023, asking if the finance had been removed and, in a 
conversation with Mr M in May 2023, he advised Santander of what had happened.
Based on the case notes Ive seen, Im satisfied that Santander were aware the car had 
been sold in April 2023, and the circumstances of the sale in May 2023. As such, under 
clause 7.1, Santander were entitled to default and terminate the agreement immediately and 
pursue Mr M for the full outstanding balance. However, it wasnt until early August 2023 that 
they did this. 
Ive seen the statement of account for this agreement, which shows that Mr M continued to 
make payments to Santander until September 2023, and the first payment missed was 
October 2023. Given this, I cant agree with Mr Ms comments that Santander only 
terminated the agreement and started pursuing him for the full balance once he stopped 
making payments.
Mr M has stated the FCA rules he believes Santander failed to comply with when dealing 
with his matter. The rules hes raised as being breached are:
PRIN 2A.4 Consumer Duty: retail customer outcome on price and value
The Consumer Duty rules only apply to products and services sold from 31 July 2023 and 
dont apply to events that happened before that. As the agreement between Mr M and 
Santander came into effect in May 2020; this rule doesnt apply. As such, I wont comment 
any further on this point.
PRIN 2A.6.2 Consumer Duty: retail customer outcome on customer support
As above, this doesnt apply as Mr M entered into the agreement before 31 July 2023. So, I 
wont comment further on this point.
PRIN 2A.7.4 Protected characteristics and characteristics of vulnerability
This requires financial businesses to pay appropriate regard to the characteristics of their 
customers, including characteristics of vulnerability. Mr M has said he is very vulnerable and 
pressuring into a position where I cant keep on top of overheads. Ill deal with Santanders 
actions under PRIN 2A.7.4 alongside CONC 7.3.
Principle 6 (as referred to in CONC 2.2)
This requires financial businesses to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. Ill deal with Santanders actions under Principle 6 alongside their actions 
under CONC 7.3, as I consider these to be intrinsically linked.
CONC.7.3 Treatment of customers in default or arrears
This requires financial businesses to treat customers fairly, in line with Principle 6 (above), 
and to treat those customers with forbearance and due consideration.As Ive said above, Mr M wasnt in arrears when the agreement was defaulted and 
terminated, and Santander only took these actions because Mr M sold the car through the 
dealership and didnt receive the sale proceeds with which to clear the balance he owed to 
Santander. And I havent seen anything that shows me he made Santander aware he was 
struggling to make payments before the default and termination took place.
Mr M is also unhappy with being told that the default and any missed payments will have an 
adverse effect on his credit file. While, given the circumstances, I appreciate he doesnt want 
to be told this, as he was the victim of a scam, it doesnt alter the fact that hes been 
provided with factual information. And this was done in a very factual way. As such, I cant 
agree Santanders actions constitute threatening behaviour.
I have empathy with the situation Mr M has found himself in, and the reasons for this, but it 
doesnt alter the fact that he breached the agreement with Santander. And he was given 
between May and August 2023 to try and sort things out before Santander took the actions 
they were entitled to take when they found out the car had been sold without the finance 
being cleared. Given this, and while I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr M, for the reasons already stated Im not satisfied that Santander acted unfairly in this 
matter, and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
However, Mr M has now made it clear that he is struggling financially. As such, I would 
expect Santander to treat his situation with forbearance and due consideration while any 
police action is ongoing, and until the sale proceeds are either legally recovered, or the 
agreement is repaid by other means.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman