DRN-3054926
Complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken in 2003 and 
2004. Miss A says Lloyds Bank PLC, Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time, (Lloyds) 
mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss As case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Miss As 2003 mortgage application had a section headed: Payment Protection Insurance. 
It had a box to tick if she wanted to apply for the PPI  and a box to tick if she didnt want to 
apply for it. On Miss As form, which she signed to apply for the mortgage, the box to apply 
for the PPI was ticked  and I think she wouldve known the other box shouldve been ticked 
instead if she didnt want to apply for the PPI. 
Also the mortgage application said that if Miss A did wish to apply for the PPI there was 
a separate PPI application form to fill in  and Miss A did sign a separate application form for 
the PPI. She also signed a separate application form for it in the same way in 2004  and 
separate direct debits to pay for it. The 2004 mortgage offer also listed the PPI under the 
heading Optional Insurance. So it looks from this like Lloyds made it clear the PPI was 
something separate from the mortgage and something Miss A had a choice about taking.
Miss A has told us she wasnt made aware of any insurance being added to her mortgage 
account - and was only told to sign here. I give her recollections some weight but, in light of 
all Ive said above, what I have overall makes me think it more likely Lloyds made it clear 
Miss A didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss A, so it had to check it was right for her. Miss A has 
said her circumstances were the same in 2003 and 2004  and based on what Ive seen of 
her circumstances, I think the PPI was right for her. It helped protect Miss As mortgage, a 
long term liability secured on her home  and for a successful sickness or unemployment 
claim, it wouldve paid out on top of Miss As work pay - and for longer than shes told us her 
full sick pay wouldve lasted. So I think she had a need for the cover.
Miss A had a health condition and shes said this meant she wasnt eligible to claim on the 
PPI. But her condition didnt make her ineligible for cover. She couldnt have claimed if work 
absences were due to this condition, but shes told us it was mild, it had never kept her off 
work and shed had it since childhood. So I dont think the exclusion of absences related to 
this particular condition made the cover was wrong for Miss A  and she wasnt affected by 
any of the other limits to or exclusions on cover. She hasnt told us of having had any other 
pre-existing health issues, for example. So, overall, I dont think the exclusions or limitation 
of cover made Lloyds recommendation unsuitable for Miss A  I think the cover wouldve 
still been useful to her.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But it looks like the cover was affordable cover for Miss A at the time. And, for the
reasons Ive already given above, it seems like the cover would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. So, taking everything into account, I dont think better information
about the PPI would have put Miss A off taking the cover.
Ive considered all Miss As points. Having done so, and for the reasons Ive already given 
above, I dont think I should uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman