DRN-3861713
The complaint
Mr A complains that Gain Capital UK Limited incorrectly closed his positions when he had 
sufficient margin. He also complains that it failed to allow him to open other positions when 
he wanted to, he wasnt able to close his account and that he received tempting emails 
asking him to trade.
What happened
Mr A had two trading accounts with Gain Capital which he used in 2020. Between July and 
September 2020, Gain Capital closed numerous positions. Mr A says this has caused him 
significant loss in excess of £100,000.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained that she was 
persuaded by the evidence that Gain Capital submitted which showed the positions it closed 
were all due to Mr As margin being below the 50% margin close out level.
Our Investigator also explained that she wasnt persuaded that Gain Capital had done 
anything wrong when Mr A couldnt open new positions as it was likely he didnt have the 
required margin to do so. She considered the emails Mr A complained about which invited 
him to complete surveys and felt they could be dismissed and werent inducing him to trade. 
She also felt the delay in closing his accounts didnt cause him any financial loss as he 
withdrew his funds.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to issue a decision. He said hes provided 
evidence to show he had more than the required 50% margin before his positions were 
closed, and he felt he had the necessary margin to place new trades but was unable to. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the Investigator for similar reasons. Im 
not upholding this complaint.
Closing positions
Mr A has disputed a number of positions that Gain Capital closed from July to September 
2020. Hes explained he was never below the 50% margin close out level. However, Gain 
Capital has sent a spreadsheet of Mr As activity and positions during that time. Its 
demonstrated through both screenshots and the spreadsheet that on each time it closed a 
position automatically Mr A was below the 50% margin close out level. So, Im persuaded 
that Gain Capital hasnt done anything wrong in closing these positions.
The terms which Mr A agreed to when opening his accounts made it clear that if his margin 
level reaches or falls below the margin close out level then it may close any of the open 
positions immediately without notice. Gain Capital has provided evidence to show that this 
was the case, so I dont find its done anything wrong in closing these positions.
I do note Mr A believes it is this action that has led him to lose significant sums of money  
however this is because the market moved against him. Those losses were then realised 
when the positions closed. And as Ive explained above, Im satisfied Gain Capital acted in 
line with its terms and regulations when closing these positions.
Opening new positions
Mr A also complains that he wasnt able to open new positions when he wanted to. He said 
that he was told there was insufficient money but felt he had sufficient margin to do so. Gain 
Capital looked at the screenshots Mr A provided and explained that the margin percentage 
he was looking at was the margin indicator and not the margin requirement. And from 
looking at Mr As general trading history including the usual size of his positions, its likely he 
didnt have the required margin available to open those positions.
Mr A hasnt provided me with sufficient evidence to demonstrate that he had the required 
margin to open those positions he said he couldnt open. I appreciate Mr A feels hes lost out 
financially from not being able to open these positions, but I think thats too speculative to 
know. And in any event, Im not persuaded Gain Capital has done something wrong here.
Account closure
Mr A asked for his account to be closed but it wasnt. Gain Capital has confirmed that the 
account closed in October 2022. The evidence provided shows that Mr A withdrew his funds 
from Gain Capital the day after he first requested account closure. So, whilst it was 
disappointing the accounts werent closed, I cant see this has caused him any financial loss.
Emails
Mr A complains that after hed asked for his account to be closed he received emails from 
Gain Capital which he felt were trying to induce him to trade. Ive seen copies of these 
emails and I can see they offer a chance to win a shopping voucher if Mr A completes a 
questionnaire about the platform. Aside from this the emails highlight that there are new 
features to the platform, some occasional guides and a refer-a-friend scheme. Ive not seen 
that Mr A was required to take action in these emails, nor do I find that the content could be 
considered an incentive or inducement to trade. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman