DRN-3104764
The complaint
Mr M has complained that his insurance provider AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has unfairly 
recorded a claim Mr M made against his insurance as a fault claim.
What happened
Mr Ms vehicle was involved in an accident exiting a carpark. Mr M has explained that the 
signage wasnt clear and therefore the carpark provider is responsible for the accident.
Mr M explained he entered carpark C through an appropriate entrance. When he exited the 
carpark, he did so by following the road markings indicating how to travel around and exit the 
carpark. The exit didnt have signage to warn Mr M of the height restriction that caused 
damage to his vehicle.
AXA contacted the carpark operator. The carpark operator explained that there was only one 
entrance to carpark C. The entrance clearly identifies the height restrictions, and the carpark 
has an identifiable one-way system throughout. It explained Mr M had entered the carpark 
through an exit and therefore would not have seen the restrictions. The carpark operator felt 
its signage was adequate and would not take responsibility for the damage caused to Mr Ms 
vehicle.
Mr M provided evidence to support his view that the carpark operator was responsible. The 
evidence included photographs of the route Mr M took into and out of the carpark, video 
evidence, a hand drawn map of the carpark and his explanation.
Mr M also explained he confirmed with two security guards that the signage wasnt clear and 
feels there is a conflict of interest between AXA and the carpark operator/insurer that is 
preventing AXA pursuing the claim.
AXA considered the evidence available and its claims and liability team decided not to 
attempt recovery of the claim costs from the carpark operator. AXA made this decision 
having concluded it was unlikely to be successful in recovering the claim costs.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr M 
disagreed, he felt the evidence he had provided showed he wasnt at fault for the accident. 
As Mr M didnt agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common for insurance policies to give the insurer the right to defend or settle a claim as it
sees fit. Mr Ms policy states AXA may:
have the right to take over and deal with the defence or settlement of any claim in the name
of the person making a claim under this policy. We may also pursue any claim to recover
any amount due from a third party in the name of anyone claiming cover under this policy.
We consider this term to be fair, however I have looked at if AXA has made its decision on 
how to settle Mr Ms claim fairly.
Mr M has provided images of the way he entered carpark C. I have considered the evidence 
available, but I dont agree the image identifies that the way Mr M entered the carpark is an 
entrance. The arrows on the floor leading up to the exit are all facing the opposite direction 
and the arrow on the floor inside the car park is also facing the opposite way, giving a 
second option to turn right to continue around the one-way system. The arrow that follows 
this arrow is again the direction of the one-way system.
I have also looked at all of the other images provided by Mr M to support his view and while I 
accept the signage exiting the carpark doesnt warn about height restrictions, had Mr M 
attempted to enter the carpark via the one entrance, rather than one of the exits, he would 
have been aware of the height restrictions from the outset and known that the carpark did 
not provide parking for his vehicle.
Having considered all the evidence available including everything provided by Mr M and 
AXA, including information provided by the carpark operator I dont think AXA acted 
unreasonably when it made the decision it would be unlikely to recover the cost of the claim 
from a third party.
I also havent seen any evidence to suggest there is any conflict that has prevented AXA 
pursuing the claim.
As our Investigator explained the term fault in the context of an insurance claim doesnt 
always mean that party is to blame. The term simply means that the at fault party has 
incurred a cost for the claim that it has not recovered.
As Ive decided AXA acted reasonably deciding it was unlikely to recover the cost of the 
claim from the third party, it follows that I also think that the way AXA recorded Mr Ms claim 
as a fault claim was also fair. 
It is unfortunate that fault claims can, and often do have an impact on insurance premiums, 
but as I think AXA has acted fairly in relation to Mr Ms claim, I wont be asking it to take any 
further action to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman