DRN-4171293
The complaint
Miss T complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund her for 116 
transactions which she said she didnt authorise.
What happened
Between 9 July and 24 August 2022, 116 payments debited Miss Ts Barclays account. They 
were all to the same technology company, and came to a total of £1,970.34. The payments 
had been set up as recurring payments. The person setting this up would have had to have 
Miss Ts physical card, and would have input the details from that, as well as entering her 
address.
On 30 August, Miss T contacted Barclays to say she hadnt authorised the transactions and 
she wanted a refund. Miss T said she still had her card, and didnt know who had committed 
the fraud. She told Barclays she hadnt previously used the technology company which had 
received the payments.
Barclays didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. In its final response letter, it said there had been 
no bank error.  It said it had followed the correct process, and the correct decision had been 
made to hold her liable. It had deemed the transactions genuine and couldnt identify any 
fraudulent activity. It suggested that she could contact the technology company through her 
app, and it might be able to help and recover the funds, provided the transactions were a 
genuine mistake. But it said Miss T should be aware there was no guarantee the technology 
company could help.
Miss T wasnt satisfied, and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. He said hed seen from the banks records 
that the genuine card, security code, and correct address had been used to make the 
transactions. But he noted that Miss T had complained to Barclays in April 2022 about 
similar transactions. On those occasions, Barclays had refunded Miss T for £90.70 and 
£91.41, and had cancelled and replaced her debit card. The investigator listened to phone 
call recordings between Miss T and Barclays, and he said this confirmed that Miss T did use 
the technology companys app store, and it was more likely than not that shed given her 
details to continue to use the facility. 
The investigator concluded that there was enough evidence to show that Miss T had given 
her details to the technology companys app store, and that it was more likely than not that 
shed authorised the transactions.  
Miss T didnt accept this. She told the investigator that her young son had made the 
transactions on his tablet, but she wasnt clear about timescales. The investigator replied 
that there was a call recording where Miss T had said she couldnt use her ID on a tablet. 
Miss T said that Barclays was supposed to be keeping her money safe and should 
reconsider. She said it was unfair because she had financial difficulties and children to feed, 
so she wanted refunds from the bank or from the technology company. Our investigator 
didnt change his view and Miss T asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In these circumstances there are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The 
relevant regulations here are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the 
bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they 
did authorise them. So Ive looked at the evidence to see whether its more likely than not 
that Miss T authorised the payments.
Miss T told Barclays that she still had her Barclays debit card. The computer evidence 
shows that the transactions were set up as a recurring payment authority, and this was set 
up using the genuine card details, and the security number on the back of the card, and Miss 
Ts correct address. So whoever set up the payments had access to Miss Ts genuine card 
and personal details. 
I note that Miss T told Barclays shed never used the technology company before, and didnt 
let other people access her card. But its clear from previous phone call recordings between 
Miss T and Barclays that shed told Barclays she had a tablet with the technology company. 
On one call, she told Barclays that her app with the technology company was no longer 
working, which would have been at the time when her previous Barclays debit card had been 
cancelled after her previous fraud claim, and before the replacement had been issued. So I 
think its likely that Miss T was a customer of the technology company, and had previously 
given it her card details. I also agree with the investigator that its likely that Miss T hadnt 
password protected her account on the devices that had access to her account.
After the investigator issued his view, Miss T said that her young son had made the 
transactions. She hadnt said this before. Its not clear why she hadnt, but it does make this 
less credible. Ive also borne in mind that there had been previous disputed transactions to 
the same technology company, some months earlier. On those occasions, Barclays 
refunded Miss T. But that doesnt bind Barclays to refund her for all future occasions. 
Finally, Miss T said that shes in financial difficulties. Im sorry to hear that. But the outcome 
of this complaint has to be based on what happened, and what the regulations say about 
whether a customer or the bank is liable for disputed transactions. So these are what I have 
to consider, and not Miss Ts current financial difficulties.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Miss T 
authorised the payments herself. This means that Barclays doesnt have to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman