DRN-3269347
The complaint
Miss B and Miss L complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their claim on their home 
insurance policy.
Miss B and Miss L have been represented by a third party throughout this complaint. 
However, for ease of reading, all references to Miss B and Miss L include the actions of their 
representative. 
What happened
Miss B and Miss L had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by AXA. In 
September 2020 they made a claim after their septic tank was damaged while it was being 
emptied by a contractor.  
AXA considered the claim under the accidental damage peril in the policy, however declined 
it. It said cover is only provided where the damage is caused by You, Your guests or 
Vermin and the contractor didnt meet the definition of a guest. It also noted that the 
outbuildings of the property, which included the septic tank, were underinsured by around 
81%.
Miss B and Miss L didnt think this was fair, they said the word guest wasnt defined in the 
policy but thought a reasonable definition is someone who is invited to your home. And the 
contractor would fall into this definition. Further they felt the policy had been mis-sold as it 
wasnt made clear to them that the septic tank would form part of the limit for outbuildings. 
They made a complaint.
An intermediary responded to the complaint on behalf of AXA. It maintained the declinature 
of the claim, as it said a reasonable definition of the word guest would be someone who you 
would class as a friend, which wouldnt apply to the contractor. Further it didnt agree that the 
definition of outbuildings was unclear so didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold.
Miss B and Miss L were unhappy with this response and brought their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said she thought AXA had used a reasonable definition of guest and didnt think the 
contractor met that definition, and therefore AXA acted fairly by declining the claim. In 
relation to Miss B and Miss Ls complaint about the policy being mis-sold, she said a 
complaint would need to be considered against the business that sold the policy rather than 
AXA who were the underwriter of the policy. So she couldnt consider that as part of this 
complaint. 
Miss B and Miss L didnt agree and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has declined Miss B and Miss Ls claim as it says in order for a claim to be accepted 
under the accidental damage cover in the policy, the damage has to have been caused by: 
You, Your guests or Vermin. It says that as the contractor caused the damage, they 
wouldnt be reasonably referred to as a guest so cover wouldnt apply. I need to decide if 
AXA has acted fairly and reasonably when declining the claim. 
The complaint comes down to a disagreement about the definition of the word guest. As 
this isnt defined in the policy, this service considers what a reasonable understanding of the 
definition of the word would be.
AXA has said that a guest would reasonably be described as a friend who had been invited 
to your property. However Miss B and Miss L say that it would apply to anyone who had 
been invited, regardless of whether it was for social purposes. 
Ive considered this and I dont think a contractor who attended the property to fill out a 
contractual obligation, would fall into a reasonable definition of the word guest. Ill explain 
why.
When considering what a reasonable definition of the word is, Ive considered how the 
English dictionary defines it. The two most popular dictionaries define it as: 
a person who is staying with you, or a person you have invited to a social occasion, such as 
a party or a meal
And
a person that you have invited to your house or to a particular event that you are paying for
So only the first refers to the a guest attending purely for a social occasion. However, I dont 
think either definition extends to reasonably include someone who is invited to the property 
to carry out work. This would more reasonably be described as a visitor, rather than a guest. 
As while they are invited to the property, this is purely to carry out a job as part of a contract. 
And I dont think referring to someone attending your property in that capacity would usually 
or reasonably be described as your guest.
For this reason, I am satisfied that AXA has applied this definition fairly. And therefore acted 
fairly by declining the claim, due to it not meeting the requirements for a claim under the 
accidental damage cover.
Ive also considered what Miss B and Miss L have said about the policy being mis-sold in 
relation to their concerns about the underinsurance of the outbuildings. And I agree with our 
investigator that this will need to be considered as part of a separate complaint. While an 
intermediary sent a final response letter that covered both issues, they were acting on behalf 
of other businesses. AXA is the underwriter of the policy, so makes decisions about claims, 
however wasnt involved in the sale. So a complaint about the sale will need to be against a 
different business. I therefor wont consider this issue here.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss B and Miss Ls complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Miss L 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman