DRN-1650437
 
The complaint
Miss F says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
In 1999 Miss F took out a mortgage with Halifax. Around the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy to protect her monthly mortgage payments if she was off sick, or if she lost her job. 
Miss F paid a monthly premium for the policy. The policy cost £9.35 per month. If Miss F had 
made a successful claim, it would have paid monthly benefit of around £176 for up to 24 
months. The benefit covered her monthly mortgage payment, plus 25% to cover mortgage-
related costs.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Fs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss F applied for the mortgage at a face-to-face meeting with a mortgage adviser. 
Ive seen a copy of her signed mortgage application form. It included a section on 
PPI. It says that Halifax recommends that the applicant take out PPI, and that they 
fully understand the risks if they dont take it. The word Quote is written in 
manuscript in that section. A few weeks after she applied for the mortgage, Miss F 
transferred her application to a different property, costing a similar amount. Halifaxs 
records show that a few days after that, it sold her the PPI during a phone call. 
 
I think its likely that Miss F was sent a quote for the PPI after she signed the 
mortgage application. And I think its likely that this followed a discussion between 
Miss F and the mortgage adviser about her insurance needs. I cant be sure what 
was said to Miss F during the phone call a few weeks later, when the PPI was sold. But I think it would have been clear from the mortgage application form that the PPI 
was optional. And I think its more likely than not that the policy was set up because 
Miss F chose to take it  although I can understand how she may no longer 
remember this, so many years later.
 
Miss F told us that Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to her. But Halifax says that it 
would have done. And for the purposes of this decision, Ive assumed that a 
recommendation was made. This is to Miss Fs advantage, as it means that Halifax 
had a responsibility to check that the policy was suitable for her. But it doesnt look as 
if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of Miss Fs circumstances at the time. 
 
Miss F has told us she cant remember whether shed have been entitled to any sick 
pay or redundancy pay from her employer at the time. If shed made a successful 
claim under the policy for accident or sickness or unemployment, it would have 
covered her monthly mortgage payments and mortgage-related costs for up to two 
years. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy 
pay that Miss F received. So she could have used those payments to meet other 
day-to-day costs.
 
I acknowledge that Miss F has pointed out that her parents were guarantors for her 
mortgage. But I dont think this means the PPI wasnt right for her. The policy would 
have meant that she wouldnt need to rely on her parents as guarantors for two years 
if something had gone wrong. And it would have given her some helpful breathing 
space at what its likely would have been a difficult time.
 
Miss F has also said that her family could have supported her for as long as needed. 
But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure that Miss Fs family would have 
been in a position to support her if the need had arisen. And although shes 
mentioned that she had life insurance, thats a different type of insurance, and it 
wouldnt have paid out in the same circumstances as PPI. Taking everything into 
account, I think Miss F could have found the PPI useful.
 
Its possible that Halifax could have given Miss F clearer information about the cost of 
the policy. But it was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to make me think 
Miss F couldnt afford it. And as she was paying for it monthly, she could have 
cancelled it at any time if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer 
wanted the cover.
 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But based 
on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, its unlikely that Miss F 
would have been affected by any of these. So I dont think shed have made a 
different decision about taking the PPI even if better information had been provided.
 
Ive taken account of all Miss Fs comments, including what shes said about the cancellation 
terms of the PPI not having been explained to her. But Im satisfied that she knew she had 
the cover and knew it was optional. And if shed wanted to cancel it, I think its likely shed 
have contacted Halifax. So this doesnt change my view. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman