DRN-3076515
The complaint
Mr V complains about the actions of Lloyds Bank PLC after he fell behind on his loan 
repayments. Hes unhappy that Lloyds passed his debt on to its recoveries team and a 
default was placed on his credit file.
 
What happened
In mid- 2020, Mr V fell into arrears on his repayments for his loan with Lloyds. In July 2020, 
he contacted Lloyds and explained he was experiencing some financial difficulty. Lloyds 
agreed to put a 30-day hold on the loan where it wouldnt chase him to make payments. It 
also temporarily stopped charging him interest on the loan.
In the months that followed, Mr V contacted Lloyds several more times and further holds 
were put on the account. In December 2020, Mr V discussed making a payment 
arrangement with Lloyds, but an agreement wasnt made. He told Lloyds he expected his 
financial situation to change in January.  A further 30-day hold was placed on the account, 
but in the meantime, it was moved to Lloyds recoveries team and a default was registered 
on Mr Vs credit file.
Mr V complained to Lloyds, who said it had moved the account to its recoveries team to 
provide more long term support. It said this possible outcome had been discussed with Mr V 
over the phone.
Mr V remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Vs concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She said she was 
satisfied Lloyds had acted fairly and in line with its terms and conditions. 
Mr V disagreed with our investigators view. He said the crux of the matter was the automatic 
referral (to recoveries) after Lloyds said he didnt need to worry about payments provided he 
contacted it at the end of the hold. If Lloyds had been clear, he would have had the 
opportunity to rectify things. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Vs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds has a responsibility to treat its customers fairly and communicate with them in a way 
which is clear, fair and not misleading. It also has a duty to treat them positively and 
sympathetically if its aware they are experiencing financial difficulties.
Lloyds wrote to Mr V about the arrears on his loan account in July 2020 advising him to call if 
he was having difficulty with his payments. I can see that Mr V phoned Lloyds in response to 
this letter. Lloyds has noted that Mr V said he would be clearing the overdue amount in the 
next few weeks, using expenses from work. The notes show that a temporary plan was 
discussed but Mr V wanted to review his options and make an informed decision. Lloyds 
agreed a 30-day hold on the account, where it would stop charging interest on the loan.
I can see Mr V contacted Lloyds again on 1 September 2020, just after the 30-day hold 
expired, and his financial situation was discussed. Lloyds notes show that Mr V didnt have 
time to discuss matters further and asked for a call back the following day. The next day    
Mr V called to say he wouldnt be able to take the call due to work. According to the notes, 
Lloyds tried calling Mr V again a couple of weeks later to establish his situation and provide 
further help with the account. Mr V said he would call Lloyds back the next day. But the next 
phone contact appears to be on 12 October 2020 when Mr V called in response to a letter 
Lloyds sent asking him to pay the full arrears on the loan, which by that stage was three 
months worth. The letter asked Mr V to contact Lloyds if he wasnt able to do this and 
warned him of the potential consequences of not doing so. Lloyds has noted that Mr V said 
he couldnt pay the arrears on the loan account in full and had an appointment with his local 
bank branch that afternoon to discuss it and move things forward.
There were further telephone conversations between Mr V and Lloyds in November 
discussing his circumstances. I can also see that Lloyds made several attempts to contact 
Mr V to agree a payment plan with him. 
When Mr V spoke to Lloyds in mid-December, a Lloyds adviser went through a budget with 
him and has also noted:  I had also adv Mr that if we set up a plan on Loan, there is still a 
chance for this to passed to recoveries. Mr adv wont be able to make a payment until end of 
January (sic). Theyve noted placing a 30-day hold on Mr Vs account to get a better 
understanding of his income. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds treated him positively and sympathetically once it became aware of 
his financial difficulties. I say this because it froze the interest on his account for around five 
months and attempted to agree a payment arrangement with him several times. 
I understand Mr Vs main concern is that his account was automatically passed to Lloyds 
recoveries team, with a default being registered, while the most recent 30-day hold was still 
in place. Mr V says he was told he didnt need to worry about payments provided he 
contacted Lloyds at the end of the hold. 
According to Lloyds contact notes, Mr V was advised in the conversation of 10 November 
2020 that whilst accounts are on hold theres not guarantee that the loans wont continue 
moving towards closure, letters were received end of October and hold lasts until 10th Dec, 
but is aware we should have enough time to get repayment plans sorted before the point of 
closure and a default is applied (sic). So, I think its likely that Mr V was told that a 30-day 
hold wouldnt necessarily prevent the account being closed or a default being registered.
The default notice that was issued to Mr V on 28 October 2020 informed him that he had 
broken the terms of his agreement because he hadnt paid all the monthly repayments on 
time. It says that to correct this he had to pay the arrears of £2,154.07 by 15 November 
2020. It goes on to set out what further actions might be taken if Mr V did not do what was 
required before that date. This included ending the agreement unless Mr V agreed an 
arrangement to repay the arrears and what might happen if the agreement was ended, such 
as moving it on to a debt collection agency or selling the debt. The default letter also says: If 
we end the agreement, a default will be registered with credit reference agencies no less 
than 28 days from the date of this letter.
So, I think Lloyds made it clear that, in order to avoid the agreement ending and a default 
being registered, Mr V would either have needed to bring the account up to date or agreed 
an arrangement with Lloyds by 15 November 2020. Neither of these things happened. Its also worth mentioning that the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance says 
when a consumer is at least three months behind with their repayments then a default may 
be registered. And it would expect a default to be registered by the time the consumer is six 
months behind with their contractual repayments. 
 
Given that Mr V was around six months behind on his repayments and an agreement hadnt 
yet been made, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to have applied the default.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr V, but overall, I think Lloyds has acted fairly 
and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman