DRN-2707798
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way HSBC Life (UK) Limited handled a claim under his income 
protection policies
What happened
Mr S was diagnosed with stress and depression in January 2016 and was unable to work.  
He received full pay from his employer until June 2016.
As part of his employment, Mr S was the beneficiary of a group income protection policy with 
HSBC Life.  He also held a personal income protection policy, also with HSBC Life.  And as 
he was unable to return to work in June 2016, he submitted a claim. The claim was accepted 
from July 2016, with liability shared between the two policies.
Benefit under the policies continued until January 2019, when HSBC Life notified Mr S it 
considered him well enough to return to work. It made an advance payment to Mr S for 
benefit up until May 2019 and then closed the claim.
Mr S was unhappy with HBSC Lifes decision and raised a complaint. In February 2019 he 
wrote to HSBC Life reiterating the difficulties he was having including extreme difficulties 
with leaving his house, a fear of being out in public and finding social situations caused him 
severe anxiety.
HSBC Life didnt change its position and having investigated his complaint further, it wrote to 
Mr S in June 2019. In its letter, HSBC Life said it considered Mr S had mispresented the 
severity of his symptoms and hadnt engaged with the treatment recommended to facilitate 
his return to work. It went on to say it had evidence Mr S had been working in a business he 
owned, and this also demonstrated Mr Ss condition wasnt as severe as hed been 
reporting. HSBC Life decided to forfeit the policies with immediate effect.
Because he remained unhappy, Mr S bought his complaint to this service. In addition to his 
concerns about HSBC Lifes decision to terminate his claim, he also said he was unhappy 
about the deduction of Employment and Support Allowance payments from his claim and he 
complained about problems re-instating his individual income protection policy once his 
claim was terminated. As Mr S left his employer in August 2019, the group income policy 
was no longer in place and he said he wanted the security of his individual policy for the 
future.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss concerns but didnt uphold his complaint.  
She wasnt satisfied HSBC Life had correctly terminated Mr Ss claim in January 2019 but as 
he hadnt engaged with the treatment recommended  for almost a year after the claim was 
terminated - she didnt think HSBCs decision should be overturned.
Our investigator also thought HSBC Life had correctly deducted amounts equivalent to 
Employment and Support Allowance benefits in line with the policy terms as Mr S hadnt 
provided the information needed for HSBC Life to adjust the payments. Mr S has now asked 
to withdraw this aspect of his complaint.
Our investigator didnt agree Mr S had misrepresented his symptoms. She said Mr S had 
told HSBC Life about his business plans and this meant he hadnt misrepresented his claim.
And although she was satisfied Mr S hadnt received HSBC Lifes letters about premiums for 
his individual income protection policy, which had been sent to a previous address, as HSBC 
Life had agreed to reinstate the policy on receipt of the outstanding premiums, Mr S hadnt 
lost out. Our investigator didnt think HSBC Life should waive the premiums, despite the 
error it had made, even though thats what Mr S thought should happen.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators opinion about the outstanding premiums. And HSBC 
Life disagreed with our investigators opinion on the matter of misrepresentation. And so the 
case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and asked the parties to provide me with 
any further information they wanted me to consider.
In my provisional decisions I said  
From the information provided to me I can see Mr S experienced several difficulties in his 
personal life during the period of his claim, including the breakdown of his marriage. Hed 
also had some difficulties at work and the combination of those factors  which are well 
known to the parties  meant he was diagnosed with mental health problems. 
Since his claim with HSBC Life was terminated, Mr S has told this service he has no income 
and no home and is relying on friends and family for financial support. Im sorry to hear that 
and sorry Mr S has had to wait some time to receive a decision on his complaint from this 
service.
In considering Mr Ss complaint Ive considered the terms and conditions of both income 
protection policies with HSBC Life, along with the obligations placed upon HSBC Life under 
industry rules. The FCAs Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) expects 
insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably reject a claim.
I want to reassure the parties, I have considered everything thats been provided to me but 
will only comment on those matters I consider pertinent to the outcome of this complaint. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I do not intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint but some of my 
reasoning differs from that of our investigator. Let me explain.
Incapacity policy terms
The terms of Mr Ss income protection policies with HSBC Life are important as they form 
the basis of the contact of insurance between the parties. The group income protection 
policy and the individual income protection policy show some differences in the cover 
provided relating to the definition of incapacity.
The group income protection policyFor the first 24 months, incapacity claims are assessed under own occupation as show in 
the policy terms - 
Means the member is unable, by reason of illness or injury, to perform the material 
and substantial duties of his or her own occupation and is not following another 
occupation.  
Material and substantial means duties that are normally required for and/or form a 
significant and integral part of the performance of the occupation and which cannot 
be reasonably omitted or modified by the member of the Policyholder
Own Occupation is shown as  
The generic Occupation is that performed on the Date First Absent on an initial or 
subsequent claim
After 24 months, the definition changes to suited occupation  
Means the member is:
Unable, by reason of Illness or Injury, to perform the Material and Substantial duties 
of his or her Own Occupation, and
Unable by reason of Illness or Injury to perform the Material and Substantial duties 
of each and every Occupation for which they are Suited by way of training, education 
and experience, and
Not following any other Occupation.
Training, education and experience considered as part of this definition is that 
gained both prior to, or during, the Members employment with the policy 
holder
Suited Occupation is shown as 
Any generic Occupation that the Member is suited to by reason of training, 
education and experience
The individual income protection policy 
In this policy, claims for incapacity are considered under the following terms  
The life Insured is unable to carry out the Material and Substantial Duties of his Own 
occupation because of illness and injury
Material and substantial duties is defined as:
Means the duties which are normally required for the purposes of the 
Occupation and which cannot reasonably be omitted or modified
Occupation is defined as:
The occupation of the Life Insured by which the Life Insured was earning his 
living immediately prior to Incapacity
Both policies also contain terms setting out an expectation that claimants actively engage 
with plans and treatment to facilitate their return to work.Termination of benefits
During his period of absence, Mr S was assessed by professionals with specialist training 
and experience in the area of mental health. HSBC Life also contacted Mr Ss general 
practitioner (GP) for information about the history and treatment of his illness.
In March 2016, Mr S was referred for a Psychological Capacity Assessment Report 
undertaken by a Chartered Occupational Psychologist. The report includes information about 
Mr Ss difficulties at work along with the impact of his illness on his personal life.
That report assessed Mr S as suffering from problems with Depression and Anxiety in the 
extremely severe range.  It went on to say that a course of Cognitive Behavioural Therapy 
is both indicated and important with a view that if Mr S could access CBT therapy, hed 
likely be away from work for a further two to three-month period. 
Mr Ss GP records show he was referred for talking therapy in mid 2016  but Mr S didnt go 
ahead with the treatment.
A second report, in August 2017, from another Occupational health physician (that Ill call the 
WF report) explained Mr S was struggling to leave his home and finding social situations 
very difficult. It also explained that some changes at Mr Ss workplace and his relationship 
with his line manager were a factor in his continuing mental health difficulties. This report 
suggested that Mr S was unlikely to recover until the situation with his employer was 
resolved. The report also recommended a back-office type role as more suitable for Mr S 
and in line with his previous work experience, as Mr S ..may find it difficult initially to cope 
with customers. The report goes on to suggest Mr S might benefit from some voluntary 
work with a local charity but not in a role working with members of the public. It continued to 
recommend talking therapy as being of benefit and included an expectation that Mr S was 
likely to be ..ready to start part-time paid employment in three to six months with a 
suggestion that he could return to full time work within a year. Overall his mood is described 
as mild to moderately depressed.
In September 2018, a further assessment was conducted by a Consultant Psychiatrist. This 
assessment was arranged because a medical report provided by Mr Ss GP suggested little 
or no improvement in Mr Ss mental health. 
This report (that Ill call the G Report) also stressed Mr Ss mental health difficulties 
describing ..a somewhat isolated life characterised by a retreat into his living space, where 
he does not often leave the house or socialise with his old friends. It refers to Mr S actively 
avoiding situations like shopping, with Mr S spending time in the confines of his bedroom. 
During this assessment Mr S explained that hed separated from his wife and had started a 
new relationship, having met his new partner on the internet. But the report also highlighted 
the on-going anxiety caused by Mr Ss continuing link to his employer. The reports 
assessment of Mr Ss fitness to work said his depressive illness is not of such a severity 
that it would prevent him from a return to work. The report recommendations include 
continuing with his current medication regime and 10-12 weekly sessions with a 
psychologist, which HSBC Life agreed to fund.
All of the evaluation reports and the medical report from Mr Ss GP, paint a picture of 
someone presenting on-going symptom of anxiety and depression with reports of difficulties 
leaving his home, interacting socially and finding it difficult to do everyday tasks like 
answering the telephone, although the reports from August 2017 onwards suggest an 
improvement in the degree of Mr Ss depression and anxiety. Importantly each report refers 
to the importance of talking therapies playing a part in Mr Ss recoveryWhen HSBC Life terminated Mr Ss claim under the individual income protection policy in 
January 2019, it wrote to him to explain its decision. HSBC Life referenced the limited 
contact between Mr S and his GP and that beyond taking anti-depression medication, it 
considered Mr S hadnt actively engaged treatment for his mental health problems. For 
example, it said Mr S hadnt pursued talking therapies recommended in the August 2017 WF 
report  or responded to the CBT referral made by his GP. 
The letter went on to say that by implementing the recommendations of the G report, HSBC 
Life considered Mr S fit to return to employment in the near future. HSBC Life also said it 
would reconsider the claim if Mr S wasnt able to return to work during the pre-payment 
period but would need a full medical assessment and confirmation that Mr S had engaged in 
the treatment recommended to him, in order to do so.
Mr S received a similar letter relating to the termination of his claim under the group income 
protection policy.
Ive carefully considered HBSC Lifes decision to terminate the claim and make a pre-
payment, covering benefit up until May 2019. 
Its important to explain that Im not a medical professional, nor a medical expert so in 
making my decision Ive taken account of the specialist medical reports, the medical 
information from Mr Ss GP and the wider context of the circumstances at the time. 
Im not satisfied the G report, at the time it was written in September 2018, confirms Mr Ss 
ability to return to work. It strongly suggests a return to work is possible after engagement in 
the weekly therapy sessions. I am however satisfied that the pre-payment period was 
sufficient time for Mr S to engage with treatment recommended to improve his health.
From the information Ive seen, Im also satisfied Mr S hadnt engaged with talking therapy  
or regularly with his GP  for the duration of his claim. 
Mr S has repeatedly said he was prevented from engaging in talking therapy because none 
of the therapy services offered to him met his needs. 
Ive seen evidence Mr S was referred to face to face talking therapy through his GP in mid-
2016. But Mr S didnt answer their telephone calls or respond to letters sent to him to put the 
treatment in place. 
Mr S was offered telephone-based therapy. Hes said he finds it difficult to answer calls from 
withheld telephone numbers, but Im satisfied that barrier could have been overcome. 
Evidence in the G report shows Mr S was able to answer the telephone when the telephone 
number was shared with him prior to a call taking place. 
And Mr S was offered Skype (video-based face to face) therapy sessions, but he also didnt 
consider that approach suitable for his needs.
The terms of Mr Ss policies with HSBC Life include the requirement to proactively engage in 
treatment to help facilitate a return to work. Ive considered the expert reports and Mr Ss 
reported symptoms. Mr S has repeated said he couldnt leave the house, found driving 
difficult or didnt have a car available to him. So overall, Im satisfied the options offered to 
him, many within the environment of his own home, could reasonably be considered suitable 
options for someone reporting his anxieties. Because of his failure to engage with the treatment recommendations, I dont consider 
HSBC Life was unreasonable in its decision to terminate his claim.
Misrepresentation
In February 2019, when Mr S appealed HSBC Lifes decision to terminate the claim, he 
reiterated his extreme problems leaving his house without his partner and finding that social 
situation cause him to suffer severe anxiety. Mr S also said he feared being out in public and 
conversing with people.  
HSBC Life considered these statements misrepresent Mr Ss difficulties. Ive been provided 
with evidence of surveillance conducted on behalf of HSBC Life.
Footage from dates between March 2019 and May 2019  so after the claim was terminated 
but within the period when the pre-payment applied - appear to show Mr S working in the 
pub that hed purchased in 2018. The footage shows Mr S serving behind the bar, re-
stocking shelves, clearing and cleaning tables and engaging with customers. HSBC Lifes 
opinion is that this evidence demonstrates Mr S misrepresented his symptoms.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S had misrepresented his symptoms as the purchase of the 
pub is referenced in the G report. 
In the G report Mr S says he initially sought to buy the pub with this wife, as an investment 
for his retirement. The sale had completed and his intention at that time, having then 
separated from his wife, was to live in the accommodation above the pub, and to rent out the 
business premises below. The report says Mr S ..was emphatic that he would not be able to 
run the pub.
In response to HSBC Lifes concerns about misrepresentation, Mr S has said hes 
occasionally been able to help out when the pub is busy, but only because he knows he can 
walk away at any time if his anxiety levels increase. He says this is voluntary work as 
recommended by the occupational physician in 2018. 
HSBC Lifes position is that this isnt voluntary work  or the type of work recommended in 
the occupational health report. Im minded to agree. 
Mr S has repeatedly said he finds social situations anxiety-inducing and has specifically 
mentioned being out in public and engaging with members of the public as triggering his 
anxiety. Im more persuaded, based on everything Ive seen, that Mr Ss health had 
improved to the point he was able to engage in some of the activities hed previously found 
difficult as demonstrated by the surveillance report. Ive also taken account of the fact that 
some of the key stressors that triggered his absence from work, including his relationship 
with his wife, had been resolved before HSBC Life terminated the claim.  
Because of that I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC Life to conclude that, based on the 
surveillance footage, Mr Ss symptoms werent as severe as hed reported in the latter 
stages of his claim.
Failure to collect premium
Ive considered this aspect of Mr Ss complaint and agree with the findings of our 
investigator, and for the same reasons. Once it terminated his claim, HSBC asked Mr S to 
complete a new direct debit mandate for the individual income protection policy. They sent 
the letters to his previous address. Im satisfied HSBC Life were aware of Mr Ss updated address details  the information is 
included in its files and on the surveillance report it commissioned. But as its offered to 
reinstate the policy once the premiums are brought up to date, Im satisfied this puts Mr S 
back in the position he would have been, had the mistake not happened.
Following my provisional decision, HSBC Life confirmed it didnt have anything further for me 
to consider.
Mr S asked me to reconsider my decision because -  
Hes now engaged in treatment to improve his mental health and as a result, hed like 
HSBC Life to reinstate his claim.  
Hed like HSBC Life to reinstate his policy because his policy would have provided 
proportionate benefits for working reduced hours or on a reduce income and hed like 
access to those benefits when hes ready to return to work or for future illnesses.
Hed also like me to direct HSBC Life to contact him directly to reinstate his individual 
income protection policy.
Ive carefully considered what Mr S has said and I understand why reinstating his claim, and 
his policy, is so important to him.
Its good to hear Mr S has now engaged with treatment to help his condition, but this doesnt 
change my findings about the circumstances of his original complaint. Im satisfied Mr S 
hadnt actively engaged with treatment to facilitate his return to work, in line with the policy 
terms, over the period of his claim. And based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC 
Lifes concerns about the reported severity of Mr Ss illness, and therefore his on-going 
ability to meet the policys definition of incapacity was reasonable. 
I understand Mr S would like me to direct HSBC Life to contact him and to reinstate his 
individual policy, but I dont agree. 
Were an informal service and my role is to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. Our investigator issued her opinion on this complaint in May 
2020 and at that time, she let Mr S know HSBC Life was willing to consider reinstating his 
policy on receipt of the outstanding premiums. I havent seen any evidence Mr S approached 
HSBC Life at the time  or since  to discuss reinstating his policy or making up the missing 
payments. As such, Im not persuaded directing HSBC Life to contact him to reinstate his 
policy now, after this length of time, is the fair and reasonable thing to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking HSBC Life (UK) 
Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman