DRN-3041150
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited declined their claim for damage 
caused by a leaking shower tray, under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H arranged for a plumber to replace the sealant around their shower tray. The 
plumber noticed a gap to the rear corner of the tray when removing sealant, as well as black 
marks and evidence of damp. The plumber removed the shower tray to investigate further. 
The floor beneath was saturated and the plumber said it was starting to lose its structure, 
causing the tray to drop. 
Mr and Mrs H contacted Ageas to make a claim for the damage caused by an escape of 
water. The company rejected the claim under this insured event. It says the policy excludes 
damage caused by inadequate or absence of appropriate sealant.
The claim was reassessed based on it being the result of accidental damage from Mr and 
Mrs H getting in and out of the shower. Ageas sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. From 
the report provided, it concluded the water leak had been ongoing for some time. It says 
there was no indication of an accidental damage cause, which meant it declined the claim on 
this basis as well. 
One of our investigators looked into this. She decided not to uphold the complaint. She felt 
the company had fairly relied on the terms of the policy when declining the claim on both an 
escape of water and accidental damage basis. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. It has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I appreciate this is 
not the answer they wanted, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mr and Mrs Hs plumber included the following information on his invoice:
Call out to re seal around shower tray; Removed sealant to expose a very large gap mainly 
to rear internal corner of tray; Removed plinth to check underneath for water/floor condition; 
Floor under shower tray saturated and starting to lose its structure, hence tray starting to 
drop; Removed shower enclosure and shower tray to better assess works required.
The surveyors report from Ageas says:
A long term shower tray seals issue has resulted in the floor deterioration below the shower, 
along (sic) further moisture escaping due to the tray sag.
I have looked at what Mr and Mrs Hs policy covers. The terms relating to escape of water 
say:
Water escaping from or freezing in any fixed domestic water or heating installation, 
drainage installation, washing machine, dishwasher, refrigerator, freezer or fixed fish tank. 
Under What We Dont Cover You For it says:
Loss or damage caused: by the inadequacy or absence of appropriate sealant or grout
Ageas declined the claim for escape of water saying this was caused by the inadequacy of 
sealant around the shower tray. As above this cause is excluded from the cover provided.  
I have thought about whether it was fair for Ageas to rely on this exclusion. Its clear from the 
plumbers invoice that water had found its way under the shower tray and damaged the 
flooring beneath. The indication being that water was able to penetrate due to the condition 
of the sealant. This is supported by the surveyors report, which says the deterioration of the 
floor beneath the shower tray was the result of a long-term problem with the sealant. 
Mr and Mrs H say the shower room was well maintained, and the tray was fully sealed. I 
acknowledge their comments. However, based on what the plumber and surveyor said, I 
think Ageas view is persuasive that water had penetrated through the sealant. Over a period 
of time this caused deterioration of the floor beneath, resulting in sagging, which made the 
leak worse. Because of this I dont think the company has behaved unfairly in relying on the 
policy terms and declining the claim for escape of water.
Mr and Mrs Hs claim was also considered under the cause of accidental damage. The 
policy terms define accidental damage as, An unintentional and unexpected one off incident 
that causes damage to your buildings or contents.  
The policy terms on page 24 of the booklet include the same exclusion as relied upon 
previously by Ageas, What We Dont Cover You For: Damage caused by or arising from  
the inadequacy or absence of appropriate sealant or grout.
Ageas says its surveyor identified the leak had been ongoing for some time, due to the failed 
sealant. Because of this it didnt think the claim was covered by accidental damage. I have 
thought about whether this was fair. 
For the claim to be considered accidental damage, the leak would have to be the result of a 
one off incident. I dont think this has been shown to be the case here. I think Ageas view 
is reasonable that the damage was most likely caused by a leak, which was ongoing for a 
period of time. 
In considering all of this, I think Ageas behaved fairly in relying on the policy terms to decline 
Mr and Mrs Hs claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more to resolve their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Mike WaldronOmbudsman