DRN-2519064
The complaint
Mr S has complained on behalf of Mrs S that U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG 
Insurance (UKI) voided her commercial property insurance policy (treated it as though it had 
never been in place) and declined her claim. Shes also unhappy with the way her claim was 
handled.  
What happened
In 2017 Mrs S took out insurance for the property in question through a broker. The policy 
renewed every year after that. In May 2020 the property was badly damaged by a fire. Mrs S 
made a claim to UKI.
After investigating the claim, in September 2020 UKI said it would void the policy as it wasnt 
aware the property was an amusement arcade as opposed to an office with flats above. It 
said if it had known known this, it wouldnt have insured the property from the start.
Mrs S complained to UKI about the delays in the decision about her claim. UKI said it had 
been waiting for information from her broker. She also wasnt happy that the policy had 
been voided. UKI didnt change its decision.
Mrs S brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He thought UKI 
was entitled to void the policy. He didnt think there d been any unnecessary delays on its 
part.
As Mrs S didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S had several other commercial insurance policies. She authorised the broker to deal 
with Mr S on the renewal of the policies. Mr S acted as an introducer to the broker. That 
meant he was paid commission by the broker in respect of insurance business that hed 
introduced. In the circumstances Im satisfied the standards we should take into account in 
this case, in deciding whats fair and reasonable, are those set out in the Insurance Act 2015 
which applies to commercial customers.
The Act says that when taking out a commercial insurance policy, customers have a duty to 
make a fair presentation of the risk they are proposing to the insurer. In effect this means the 
insured must: 
 disclose every material circumstance which it knows or ought to know would influence the 
judgement of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms: or 
 give the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent insurer on notice that it needs to 
make further enquiries for the purpose of revealing those material circumstances. 
When Mrs S first took out the policy she was provided with a Statement of Fact document. 
This explained on the first page that she should check the information in the Certificate and 
Statement of Fact and tell her broker immediately if any details were incorrect. It went on to 
warn that:
Failure to do so may mean that your insurance policy is not valid or that all or part of your 
claim(s) will not be paid.
The details included the following statement:
Building Type: Office with flats above
I think UKI made it clear to Mrs S that the information in the Statement of Fact was important 
and that if any of the details were incorrect she should tell UKI. And it gave clear information 
around her duty to make a fair presentation of the risk and the impact of not doing this. 
The policy was renewed on the basis of the same information in 2018 and 2019. Mr S 
asserts that the broker was told the property was an amusement arcade when the policy was 
first taken out but failed to describe it properly to UKI. Mrs S has brought a separate 
complaint against her broker. Thats not a matter I can look at as part of this complaint. Im 
satisfied that UKI wasnt told that the property was used as an amusement arcade and that 
Mrs S didnt make a fair presentation of the risk to UKI.
The Insurance Act sets out that misrepresentation can fall within four different categories  
deliberate, reckless, careless and innocent. An insurer can void an insurance policy and 
retain the premiums paid where it can show that the misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless, UKI says this was reckless misrepresentation. I agree. A misrepresentation is 
found to be deliberate or reckless where the applicant knew that they were in breach of the 
duty of fair presentation or didnt care whether or not they were in breach of that duty. It was 
Mrs Ss responsibility to ensure UKI had everything it needed to know. She knew or should 
have known that the property wasnt in fact offices but was an amusement arcade. But she 
didnt do anything about it. I think this was more than mere carelessness. That means I think 
UKI was entitled to hold that shed been reckless. As a consequence UKI is entitled under 
the Act to void the policy and retain the premiums.
 I appreciate that UKI took about four months to provide Mrs S with its decision on this claim. 
UKI has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly but also mustnt unfairly reject any claim. 
Based on the information provided, I can see it took some time to reach its position because 
it was waiting for information from Mrs Ss broker. It reached a decision not long after 
receiving that information. I dont think the delay was UKIs fault.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman