DRN-2216325
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service provided by Halifax Share Dealing Limited, referred to as 
the business. 
What happened
Mr W says he raised a complaint with the business in December 2019, because he couldnt 
access his share dealing and ISA accounts online, but the online visibility issues remained 
until 9 January 2020. Mr W says that for three weeks he was unable to use the online 
facilities and had to access services via the telephone. During this period, Mr W also 
contacted the business several times. On one occasion he was promised a call back which 
he never received. 
The business offered Mr W £100 compensation by way of an apology in recognition of this 
but didnt uphold the complaint. It made clear that its offer was for a limited time only. It also 
said that throughout this time Mr W was offered the full range of online services by telephone 
access, in line with its terms and conditions, which offered a suitable (and available) 
alternative to the online service.
Mr W rejected the business offer and complained to our service. He didnt think the 
compensation was fair or reasonable. 
He says that he thought the problems he suffered during this period was to do with his 
laptop, so he spent time and effort trying to resolve the fault, including borrowing 
equipment and asking colleagues to inspect his laptop. He was also doing his tax returns 
and applying for a mortgage which compounded the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The compensation offered by the business for failing to call Mr W back  as a good 
will gesture and apology  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But the business should also pay an additional £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused by the issues experienced by Mr W and the businesss failure to 
explain that it was an issue at its end, rather than with his laptop.  
The business disagreed with the investigators view. In short, it said:
The maximum it would consider paying for a missed call was £25. 
As stated in the call handlers conversation with Mr W on 10 January 2020, the call 
handler has taken other service issues into account when compiling her award for 
compensation, although it accepts the final response letter is a poor example of this. 
Mr W had an agreement with the business that online service will not always be 
available, and on those occasions, it has a telephone service to ensure Mr W is 
never taken off the market. 
This alternative was available to him throughout, including sending him an account 
statement on 20 December 2019.
The £200 compensation suggested by the investigator is disproportionate and would 
be inconsistent with offers made in similar circumstances. So, its unable to agree to 
pay another £100 compensation. 
The investigator having considered the additional points made by the business wasnt 
persuaded to change her mind. In short, she said:
Having listened to the January 2020 call, shes satisfied that the complaint handlers 
offer is in recognition of the missed call, and the distress and inconvenience caused 
by that. 
Mr W had access to his account via alternative methods. However, he actively 
checked his account regularly and at the time was processing his tax returns and 
mortgage application and was very keen to fix the visibility problem.
Mr W phoned the business several times, and the agents were unaware of the 
system error. Presented with this, Mr W took steps to fix what he thought was a 
problem with his laptop, including borrowing equipment and getting colleagues 
involved.  
The business still disagreed with the investigator and reiterated that Mr W had a contractual 
agreement that the online service wont always be available. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, I think it 
should pay Mr W £200 compensation in total, for not only the failure to call back but also the 
overall distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr W has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr W and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I note in its FRL the business said: 
In view of the above and the specific issue being complained about, I regret I am unable to
uphold your complaint as we do have an agreement with you that you will make use of the
telephone service on the occasions the online service is unavailable and this is considered asuitable alternative.
So even though Mr W couldnt access his account online, he had access to a full range of 
services via telephone, to try and make up for this, including telephone trading and quarterly 
statements. Im also mindful of Mr Ws agreement with the business, and that there was no 
guarantee that hed always have access to an online service. But I dont think the online 
access is all that Mr W s unhappy about, and thats partly why I dont think the business 
goodwill gesture to pay £100 is reasonable.  
I note the business also said:
I have also reviewed your communications with our office and taken into consideration 
your customer journey as discussed today. Specifically, I identified that a call back had been 
promised by my colleague for an arranged time which was not carried out which then led to 
unnecessary chasing from yourself and in recognition of this, I offered to pay you a sum of 
£100.00 as a payment without admission of liability, which you have currently declined. I can 
confirm that this offer will remain open for six months from todays date. Should you wish to 
accept or discuss matters further please call me at your earliest convenience. (My 
emphasis).
Im aware that Mr W called the business a number of times, and it seems that it was never 
made clear to him that it was an issue at the business end. On the contrary, he was told that 
its systems were operational, so Mr W continued to try to fix a (non-existent) problem with 
his laptop. I note that this caused him distress and inconvenience which was compounded 
by the fact that he was trying to complete his tax returns and mortgage application at the 
time and needed regular access to his accounts. 
I appreciate that the business didnt know the cause of the problem at the time (until January 
2020) so I dont think it deliberately mislead Mr W. However, I dont think it was justified in 
suggesting that the problem was at his end, with his chrome browser/laptop. 
I note Mr W says in one call he was told he needed to buy a new laptop, despite it being his 
work laptop. On balance I think it couldve done more to identify and deal with the problem 
sooner rather than allow Mr W to think the issue was at his end for three weeks.  
Putting things right
So, in the circumstances I think Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr W £200 
compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience caused in respect of the customer 
journey and service provided, including the business failure to call back. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. Halifax Share Dealing Limited should 
pay Mr W the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman