DRN-2776517
The complaint
Mrs P complains that AXA Investment Managers UK Ltd (AXA) closed her investment 
without her permission and did not make alternative arrangements to contact her when she 
failed to reply to a letter.
What happened
Mrs P held an ISA with AXA which contained a fund which I will call Fund A. AXA sent a 
letter to Mrs P on 25 June 2020 which gave notice that Fund A was closing and offered 
options on what holders could do going forward.
Mrs P did not receive this letter and her investment in Fund A was repurchased on 7 
September 2020. AXA sent a letter on 10 September with details of the proceeds raised by 
the repurchase and enclosed a cheque for £14,083.02.
When Mrs P received the letter dated 10 September 2020 and she immediately contacted 
AXA and was told that this was a general letter that was sent out to all holders of Fund A. 
The agent said that as Mrs P had not responded to the 25 June 2020 letter, there was 
nothing further that could be done.
Mrs P complained to AXA who investigated the complaint. AXA did not think that they had 
done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint. AXA did acknowledge that there were 
delays in responding to Mrs Ps complaint and offered £100 in respect of the delays.
Unhappy with AXAs decision, Mrs P referred her complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators investigated her complaint. The investigator did not think that AXA had done 
anything wrong and had dealt with Mrs Ps complaint fairly and reasonably. The investigator 
did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mrs P has asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
will not be upholding the complaint. I know that Mrs P feels strongly about her complaint and 
I will explain why I have reached this decision.
Mrs P has made detailed submissions to the service and I would like to thank her for talking 
the time to put these in writing. I have considered these details in my decision.
Mrs Ps complaint is that she didnt receive the letter that AXA sent on the 25 June 2020 
notifying her about the closure of Fund A. Mrs P says that as she had not responded to the 
letter, AXA should have made other efforts to contact her.
I will cover off AXAs contractual obligations to Mrs P first. Under FCA rules, AXA were 
required to provide holders of Fund A with written notice of their intention to close the fund.
AXA sent letters to all holders on 25 June 2020 and posted notice on their website. This 
fulfilled AXAs contractual obligations to holders of Fund A.
In their submission to the service, AXA have said that they did not receive any undelivered 
mail back from Royal Mail and the address was correct. They also said that they received no 
other undelivered mail from other holders of the fund.
Mrs P says that due to the Pandemic, she was not receiving all her mail and she said that it 
was generally agreed that Royal Mail were having issues due to the Pandemic.
I note Mrs Ps comments, but AXA have fulfilled their obligations by sending the letter and 
posting details on their website. I know that Mrs P feels strongly that her complaint has not 
been upheld on this point, but I cant hold AXA responsible for mail that may not have been 
delivered by Royal Mail.
In her submission to the service, Mrs P has said that additional appropriate action should 
have been taken by AXA to safeguard clients interests. Mrs P says that a second letter or 
email should have been sent or a telephone call attempted. Mrs P says that AXA were 
negligent in not taking additional appropriate action and this is the basis of her complaint.
I sympathise with Mrs P that she didnt receive the initial letter, but the fact remains that AXA 
fulfilled their contractual and regulatory obligation to her and the other fund holders by 
sending the 25 June 2020 letter. The service cant tell AXA how to run their business and we 
can only look at the facts if something has gone wrong. As AXA sent the letter, they did 
nothing wrong.
Mrs P says that the letter dated 10 September was misleading as it referred to her 
instruction. Mrs P says that she did not provide instructions to AXA and this caused her great 
concern as she wasnt aware of the initial letter. I take Mrs Ps point and the letter could have 
been phrased better, but I would also say that as AXA did not receive any response to the 
initial letter, this was the default option.
The 25 June 2020 letter gave three options:
Switch into another fund
Sell the holding 
Keep the investment in the fund until date of closure, after which share proceeds would 
be sent 
Mrs P has said that AXA should have moved her investment into another AXA fund or into 
her other fund where she had an investment. As AXA had provided clear information on the 
options available to Mrs P in the initial letter, I dont think that it would have been appropriate 
for AXA to have presumed an additional option without the consent of Mrs P.
Mrs P has said that AXA simply chose to interpret her silence as deemed consent. Mrs P 
says that this is totally contrary to the general legal principle that silence is not deemed 
consent.
I acknowledge Mrs Ps views on this but the rules behind the closure did not require a two-
way consent and adequate notification was deemed compliant. As AXA sent the letter to the correct address and did not receive any returned mail, I think that they were entitled to act on 
the default option.
AXA have said that there were delays in dealing with Mrs Ps complaint and have offered 
£100 for the trouble and upset caused. This is in line with the award that the service would 
make so Im not going to ask AXA to do anything else.
In summary, I sympathise with Mrs P that she did not receive the initial letter and this meant 
that her holding was sold. As I have said, AXA acted in accordance with their obligations. I 
know that Mrs P feels that some alternative actions should have been carried out by AXA 
considering the Pandemic, but the service cant tell a business how they should operate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman