DRN-3706892
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) dealt with a claim 
she made under her home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Ms A got in touch with RSA when she noticed crack damage in her home. RSA 
appointed a loss adjuster, C, to deal with the claim.
C inspected the damage. It said the damage had been caused by subsidence as a 
result of leaking drains. It arranged for a drainage survey to be carried out.
The survey found defects in five pipes. C wrote to the local water company, S, to say 
S was responsible for the defects in pipes 1 and 3 and asked it to carry out repairs. S 
didnt agree to do so.
C says it carried out repairs to pipes 2, 4, and 5 as part of the subsidence claim  but 
only the defects that were within 3 metres of the property. It repaired the remainder of 
the defects in those pipes under a separate claim for underground pipes, for which it 
charged a separate excess in addition to the subsidence excess.
C then said it would carry out repairs to the building. Ms A was unhappy with this. 
She questioned whether it was appropriate to repair the building as some of the drain 
defects remained outstanding. RSA didnt provide a response to the complaint.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded RSA had shown that the drain repairs it had 
carried out had stabilised the property. In part this was because Ms A reported 
further cracking during our investigation and also because C had said monitoring 
showed ongoing movement. She recommended RSA stabilise the property. And 
directed it to record one single claim for the subsidence and drain damage combined.
RSA said it hadnt monitored the property. And that any defects more than three 
meters away from the property would be outside the zone of influence of the 
foundations and werent causing the subsidence damage. Whilst it said it would be 
beneficial for S to carry out repairs to the defects its responsible for, repairs could be 
carried out to the building and damage wouldnt be guaranteed to return.
As monitoring hadnt been carried out, our investigator revised her recommendations. 
She said RSA should carry out investigations, such as monitoring, to show the 
property was stable. She maintained the claim should be recorded as one. And she 
said RSA should pay £450 compensation for the distress caused by the avoidable 
delays in the claim and the confusion caused by saying it had monitored the property 
already when it hadnt.
An agreement wasnt reached, so the complaint has been passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Drainage repairs
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence. RSA accepts theres subsidence damage 
to the building and has agreed to carry out repairs. When it does so, it must ensure the 
repair it carries out is lasting and effective. That means ensuring the subsidence movement 
has ceased and the building has stabilised  otherwise further damage is likely.
C identified a number of drainage defects. I understand it has repaired all of the defects on 
pipes for which Ms A is responsible. S is responsible for the other pipes  and the defects 
within them. C cant make S carry out those repairs, but it can highlight the defects, and the 
problem theyve caused, and ask S to put the damage right. So it was right for C to notify S 
of the defects and ask it to carry out the repairs.
S hasnt agreed to take any further steps. Despite that, C has recommended repairing the 
building. Ms As complaint is effectively that she doesnt think C can carry out a lasting and 
effective repair with drainage defects remaining.
Not all drainage defects will have the same influence on the subsidence movement. 
Depending on their proximity to the building and the amount of water being released, some 
defects may have more or less influence on the movement. In some circumstances, its 
possible to stabilise the building without repairing all defects. So Ive considered the 
evidence about the defects to see whether thats the case here.
The only report Ive seen from C says the subsidence problem was caused by leaking 
drains. This was prior to the survey being carried out, so I wouldnt expect it to be able to 
predict what defects might be present. But I havent seen any other reports that make more 
specific findings about the defects or which might suggest some were having more of an 
influence on the subsidence problem than others.
When C wrote to S, it said the drain survey showed severe defects in need of repair that 
were causing subsidence. This firmly gives the impression that these defects are having a 
significant influence on the subsidence problem and need to be put right to stop the 
movement. In response to our investigator, C described these as minor drainage defects 
but Ive seen no engineering or surveying commentary from C to support that or explain 
whats changed since its earlier description of the same defects.
C says it can proceed with repairs but I havent seen it say the building has been stabilised 
and/or that damage is unlikely to return on the strength of the drainage repairs carried out so 
far alone.
Ms A reports damage continuing, despite the drainage repairs that have already been 
carried out, which should have reduced the extent of movement.
Whilst C had said monitoring had shown movement, it maintains it hasnt carried out any 
monitoring. This appears to be an error in Cs correspondence, which is unhelpful.Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied our investigators recommendation to monitor the 
property is a reasonable one. RSA, through C, hasnt shown the building has stabilised 
and/or that the outstanding defects are sufficiently minor that theyre not continuing to 
influence the subsidence movement. However, S hasnt agreed to carry out repairs and 
seems unlikely to be persuaded otherwise without further information.
Level monitoring for a period of 9-12 months is common industry practice where some, but 
not all, of the cause of subsidence has been removed. The monitoring will show whether the 
building has stabilised or not. If so, it may give Ms A reassurance about agreeing to building 
repairs. If not, it may give C evidence with which to persuade S to carry out repairs. Failing 
that, continued movement will likely mean C will need to take other steps to stabilise the 
building. But that can be assessed once the monitoring period is concluded. At that time, C 
should have an engineer or surveyor assess the readings alongside the other claim 
information and let Ms A know how it intends to proceed.
Multiple claims
I understand C setup a second claim, in addition to the subsidence claim, for repairing the 
defects located more than three meters from Ms As property. It charged her a separate 
excess for carrying out these repairs. If the defects were unrelated to the subsidence 
problem, I may find this fair. But if they were related, or likely to be, I think they should be 
included within the subsidence claim.
C said these defects werent influencing the subsidence movement because of their distance 
from the building. These comments followed our investigators findings. I havent seen them 
appear in any reports from the relevant time. And I havent seen any engineering or 
surveying commentary from C to support them.
I accept the general principle that as defects get further from the building, their influence is 
likely to reduce. But whats important here is the specific defects, their actual distance from 
the building, and an expert judgement on their influence. Its unclear exactly what defects 
were considered near enough or too far away to be causing the subsidence movement. I 
note some defects were five metres along the pipe, but not necessarily five metres from the 
building because of the pipe layout. So its not clear that these defects were so remote from 
the building that they were clearly not influential at all. Given no expert information has been 
presented to support Cs approach, Im not satisfied it was fair.
To put things right, all the drainage repair should be included under the subsidence claim. 
That means the second claim should be removed from any internal or external databases 
and the excess Ms A paid should be refunded, so that she only pays a single subsidence 
excess for the claim.
Compensation
Im satisfied the problems identified above means RSA has caused avoidable claim delays. 
Whilst it cant be held responsible for the actions of S  and its decision not to repair its 
drainage defects  RSA has a duty to progress the claim promptly and fairly. Seeking to 
repair the building without showing its stabilised isnt in line with that duty.
Its clear the delays have caused Ms A distress and inconvenience, so I think its right RSA 
pays compensation to her.Our investigator suggested £450 and I consider that reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to:
Carry out monitoring as described above
Remove the second claim and refund the excess
Pay £450 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman