DRN-1287411
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Nationwide Building Society (trading as Staffordshire Building 
Society at the time of the sale) mis-sold them a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1997. They were sold the PPI in 
connection with this mortgage during a meeting. Although Mr and Mrs B have mentioned a 
mortgage before 1997, Nationwide say they have no records of any mortgage or PPI with a 
mortgage with Mr and Mrs B before 1997. So to be clear, my decision only relates to PPI 
sold in connection with the mortgage taken out in 1997.
Although the mortgage was in both Mr and Mrs Bs names, the PPI only covered Mrs B. It 
would have provided a monthly for up to 12 months if Mrs B was off work sick or if she lost 
her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B didnt 
agree with the adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs B will be disappointed with this outcome but I will go on to explain why Ive decided not 
to uphold this complaint.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. Mr and Mrs Bs say that they were told 
they had to take PPI in order to get the mortgage and as such they were forced to take it out.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. Ordinarily I would have looked to the 
documents from the time of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have 
happened. However, unfortunately - though understandably - given the length of time since 
the sale, neither party has any actual documents from the time of the sale. What this means 
is that I have very limited information to go on in terms of how the policy was presented. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs B have told us. However, I cant rely on this account 
alone as there appears to be some confusion over which PPI policy they are referring to and 
their recollection appears to be in relation to PPI taken out in relation to a mortgage taken out before 1997. As already mentioned above, Nationwide have no record of any 
mortgage/PPI policy before 1997. 
And in any event, it would be unfair for me to rely solely on this account when Nationwide 
say that PPI would have been presented as optional but are, with good reason, unable to 
provide the documents from the time of the sale which may have shown this.
So while of course its possible the policy was sold as compulsory, I cant say its more likely 
that Mr and Mrs B were sold the PPI as compulsory or that it was added without their 
consent.
Although I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Bs main complaint point relates to being told the 
policy was compulsory, as I have found that the policy wasnt mis-sold on this basis, I have 
gone on to look at the other areas of sale which may have resulted in the policy being mis-
sold.
First of all Ive checked if Mrs B was eligible for the policy because if she wasnt then the 
policy would have been mis-sold. However, having checked the terms of the policy, Im 
satisfied Mrs B was eligible.
Nationwide say they didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs B. And I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest otherwise. This means Nationwide didnt have to take steps to check 
the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs B. So, for example, they didnt have to take into account 
Mr and Mrs Bs existing repayment provisions or whether the policy was affordable for Mr 
and Mrs B or how the policy benefit should be split. It would have been for Mr and Mrs B to 
decide whether the policy was right for them in their particular circumstances. 
But Nationwide did have to provide Mr and Mrs B with clear information so that they could 
make an informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should have 
drawn Mr and Mrs Bs attention to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the 
policy.
Its possible Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs B this information as clearly as they should 
have. But this in itself doesnt mean PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking PPI. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this because:
 
The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs Bs sick pay and potentially for a 
longer period of time with repeated claims being possible. It would also have paid out 
in addition to any redundancy pay Mrs B may have been entitled to.
 
Mrs B doesnt appear to have been affected by the main exclusions/restrictions in the 
policy which would have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under the 
policy. For example, terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual 
working arrangements.
 
Although Mr and Mrs B have mentioned that PPI was an extra strain on their 
resources, I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI itself was 
unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B.
 Mr and Mrs B could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially.
 
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Mr and  Mrs 
B this PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman