DRN-2687939
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I have complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited recorded a 
notification only incident as a non-fault claim when Mr I notified it of an incident under his 
car insurance policy. Mr I is unhappy that Advantage didnt clearly explain how he would 
need to tell future insurers about the incident.
What happened
In 2019 Mr I was involved in an incident and he reported it to his insurer, Advantage. No 
parties made a claim and so it should have been recorded by Advantage as a notification 
only incident on internal and external databases. 
Mr and Mrs I hold separate car insurance policies, but are named drivers on each others 
policy.
Mrs I switched insurer in 2020. Shortly after setting up the policy her new insurer contacted 
Mrs I to say it had found a record of a non-fault claim against Mr I  her named driver - on an 
external database. They charged Mrs I an additional premium of £23 for the non-disclosed 
claim along with an administration charge of £30.
Mr I complained to Advantage. He thought Advantage should have made it clear that they 
would need to declare all incidents to future insurers irrespective of whether a claim was 
paid or not. 
Advantage said that all incidents form part of a customers history and its for the customer to 
declare to future insurers, regardless of whether a claim was made or not. So it didnt uphold 
the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs I asked us to look at the complaint. Our investigator found the incident showed 
as a notification only incident on an external database and so asked Advantage if this had 
always been the case. Advantage confirmed it had updated the incident from showing as a 
non-fault claim when Mr I raised his complaint. 
So as Advantage had incorrectly recorded the incident at the time when Mrs I switched 
insurer, the investigator contacted Mrs Is new insurer. He asked Mrs Is new insurer if the 
additional premium would have been different if the claim had showed correctly as a 
notification only rather than a non-fault claim. The new insurer said it wouldnt have made a 
difference as its charge was the same for both. 
Taking this into account, the investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
He explained that although Advantage had incorrectly recorded the incident, there had been 
no financial impact on Mr and Mrs I. He said that Advantage wasnt obligated to tell Mr and 
Mrs I what to disclose to future insurers. He explained that it is a customers responsibility to 
provide correct answers to the questions an insurer asks about their claims and incident 
history. He didnt think it was fair for him to blame Advantage for Mr and Mrs I not disclosing 
the incident to a new insurer. 
Mr I didnt agree. He said Advantage should have been clearer about how it recorded the 
incident and how this would be shared. For example, it explained that the No Claims Bonus 
(NCB) wouldnt be affected, so why not explain that the incident needed to be declared. 
He believes Advantages lack of clarity misled them into not disclosing the incident. And so 
Mr I says the administration fee his new insurer charged of £30 is a financial loss which he 
feels Advantage is responsible for. 
As Mr I doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantages role is to correctly record all incidents and claims made while providing cover 
for a customer on a shared external database. The policy wording explains how Advantage 
will share data between companies about Mr Is history. 
I dont think Advantage is responsible for the question a new insurer asks about a 
customers claims or incidents history, or how a customer answers it. The questions an 
insurer sets can vary and this is outside of Advantages control. Its for a customer to answer 
the question(s) correctly. And its for an insurer to make sure the questions are clear. If Mr 
and Mrs I feel the question the new insurer asked wasnt clear enough they can raise a 
complaint with the new insurer. So I dont agree that Advantage misled Mr and Mrs I about 
how to declare the incident.
I agree that Advantage incorrectly recorded the incident as a non-fault claim, which it 
updated when Mr I complained. When things go wrong, we look at what the impact of the 
error was and what the insurer did to put things right.
If Advantage had correctly recorded the incident, this wouldnt have changed the answer Mr 
and Mrs I gave to their new insurer - as I understand they didnt declare the incident at all. 
So the new insurer would have still charged a mid-term adjustment fee for adding the 
incident. The new insurer has confirmed that the additional premium would have been the 
same for either a non-fault claim or a notification only incident. Mr and Mrs I would have still 
contacted Advantage to raise their complaint as they believe Advantage misled them. 
So having considered what would have happened if Advantage had recorded the incident as 
a notification only from the outset, I dont think the impact on Mr and Mrs I would have been 
different. I therefore dont think Advantage is responsible for the administration fee the new 
insurer charged, or for the time involved in making contact with Advantage about this. 
I understand Mr and Mrs I will be disappointed with my decision. But I think Advantage 
resolved their complaint in a reasonable way. So this means Im not asking it to do any 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman