DRN-4242389
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC provided incorrect information about his account 
balance.
What happened
Mr B says Lloyds gave an organisation I will call S incorrect information about his account 
balance. He says S was helping him with his debt, but Lloyds told it he owed money. Mr B 
says that information was incorrect, and the account balance was zero. He would like an 
apology for the mistake as well as compensation for the waste of his time Lloyds caused.
Lloyds says it spoke to S and was told Mr Bs account was not included in a debt plan. It 
says the account balance was zero and says it cant explain Ss actions or what S says.
Mr B brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator didnt think there any evidence Lloyds told S there was an account balance. The 
investigator didnt think Lloyds had a record of any conversation between it and S.
Mr B provided an e-mail from S which stated Lloyds had been in contact about a debt and he 
says there would not be a record on Lloyds records, as it provided the information on an 
external portal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what took place.
I have looked through Lloyds records and I cant see any evidence that it told S that there 
was a balance on Mr Bs account. I appreciate what Mr B says that the information was sent 
to an external portal, but I would have still expected to have seen some evidence of that. I 
understand what Mr B says here that its difficult to see how S could have received the 
information about his bank account, including the account number, unless Lloyds told it. 
My overall view is that Lloyds may have told S that there was an account balance as I accept 
that is one explanation for what took place. But the e-mail to Mr B from S clearly tells him 
that if he does not owe the debt and there is no balance owed then there is no need to do 
anything further or call it. Im satisfied Mr B knew there was no balance owed as he told S 
that and has told us that. So, I cant see that there was any need for Mr B to update S or that 
the issue caused any real impact. I also think that any inconvenience Mr B experienced was 
as a result of him deciding to tell S and or Lloyds that a mistake had been made that S didnt 
need updating on.
It follows that I dont think compensation is justified here and that the impact on Mr B if a 
mistake was made by Lloyds was minimal. Im also satisfied that Lloyds has fairly spoken to 
S and it has confirmed there was no Lloyds debt included in the debt plan. I cant see that Mr 
B has provided a copy of the debt plan which provides evidence of a different position.
I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman