DRN-2620737
The complaint
Miss F complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss F bought the policy in April 2004 when she took out a credit card. RBS said this was a 
postal application and that it didnt advise Miss F to take out the policy. Miss F said that the 
sale took place over the phone and RBS did offer advice. Miss F further said she wasnt 
given a clear choice about taking the PPI, and the cover wasnt explained to her. 
The policy cost 75p for each £100 Miss F owed on her credit card, and provided accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover. If shed successfully claimed on the policy, each month it 
would have paid out 10% of what she owed on the card when she stopped working. This 
would have carried on for up to 12 months per claim. The policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss F disagreed, and asked that it be referred 
to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
RBS sent in a copy of Miss Fs credit card application, along with copies of some of Miss Fs 
credit card statements, showing the PPI premiums. I can see from the application that Miss 
Fs name and address were pre-printed, and theres a received stamp dated a few days 
after the date of Miss Fs signature. So it looks as though Miss F applied for the card in 
response to a mailshot and that this was a postal application as RBS said. 
I can also see that Miss F ticked a box - in a section of the form headed payment protection 
- to say that she wanted PPI. Theres nothing on the application form to suggest the PPI was 
compulsory, and she could have left the box blank if she didnt want the PPI. So overall, I 
think Miss F had a choice about taking the PPI  and decided to do so. I think she probably 
just doesnt remember doing so as it was so long ago. 
Ive no evidence to suggest any contact with a representative from RBS as part of the 
application process. So Im satisfied RBS didnt advise Miss F to take out the PPI, and 
therefore it didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable for her. But it shouldve given 
her enough information for her to decide if the policy was right for her. 
The application form refers to a separate summary of cover. We have a sample copy in our 
records, and I think its reasonable to take it as representative of what Miss F is likely to have 
received as part of the mailshot. There are brief details of the main exclusions, but I cant 
see that Miss F wouldve been affected by any of these. The premium is shown, but I dont 
think it was clear that interest could be charged on the premiums, or that Miss F wouldve 
had to keep paying for the policy during a claim. 
Miss F told us that, when she took out the policy, she was entitled to sick pay from her 
employer of six months full pay followed by six months half pay. She also said she had 
some savings, but didnt say how much. We asked for more information about this, but she 
didnt give us any details. On balance, I think Miss F couldve found it difficult to make the 
card repayments once her sick pay reduced or if shed lost her job. So I think the PPI 
couldve provided a useful benefit  Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up 
to 12 months per claim, and in addition to her sick pay. 
Overall, although I cant say that RBS fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Miss F 
would have acted differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It couldve provided 
useful protection for her if she couldnt work. This means I dont think the policy was mis-sold 
So RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss F because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss F about that. Because RBS didnt tell Miss F, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I have concluded that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Miss F any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman