DRN-4023507
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard have not clearly 
explained why payments were blocked from his account and have not done more to help 
when he was a victim of fraud.  
What happened
Mr G says Barclaycard blocked six payments from his credit card in January and February 
2022. He was initially told this was due to a block being placed on remote payments, 
however further payments were declined after this block was lifted. He was sent a new credit 
card, which appears to have fixed the issue. However, he has still not received a valid 
reason as to why the payments were blocked initially and he feels explanations given by 
Barclaycard are incorrect and should be retracted.
Mr G disputed payments on his credit card that were made on 6 and 7 April and these were 
later refunded. He was unhappy that Barclaycard would not give him meaningful information 
about the fraudsters and that he was made to contact the police himself rather than 
Barclaycard contacting them on his behalf. He was also unhappy that when he called about 
the disputed transactions, Barclaycard threatened him with legal proceedings if he were to 
give incorrect information to them.
Barclaycard credited Mr Gs account with £50 in recognition that they had not fully 
responded to his original complaint points. They incorrectly refunded one of the disputed 
transactions twice, meaning Mr G received an additional £18.55 which they are not 
deducting as a gesture of goodwill. They said they no longer had the memos explaining why 
the payments were blocked in January and February and that the fraud scripts they read are 
mandatory and cannot be amended. And that they do not take legal action for disputed 
transactions so Mr G would have to go to the police himself. As Mr G disagreed with this, he 
referred the complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and said that the transactions in January and 
February were blocked due to being picked up by the fraud prevention system, so they did 
not agree an error had been made. While they acknowledged the later final response letter 
was written when the memos about the blocked payments were no longer available, they did 
not think Barclaycard lied to Mr G when they offered an alternative explanation for why the 
transactions were declined. 
In relation to the disputed transactions in April, they explained it was not Barclaycards policy 
to share information about fraud investigations or subsequent criminal proceeding. And that 
when Barclaycard read the fraud script that Mr G was unhappy with, it was required to do so 
and therefore had not made an error in the circumstances. 
Mr G was unhappy with the outcome. In summary, he did not feel there was clear evidence 
showing why the payments in January and February were declined so felt that part of the 
complaint should be upheld. He also did not agree there was evidence showing what 
Barclays policy was about them sharing information about fraudsters so this should also be 
upheld. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the whole, I think Barclaycard have acted reasonably in the circumstances, so I wont be 
instructing them to take further action on Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Ill firstly deal with the transactions in January and February that were blocked. I note Mr G 
does not feel Barclaycards explanation as to why the payments were blocked is sufficient. It 
appears that by the time this was raised as a complaint, the information relating to the 
blocked payments was no longer available. Which is likely why a clear answer could not be 
given. 
Ultimately, I need to consider what effect any possible error has had on Mr G and find a way 
to put him back into the position he would have been in had the error not occurred. I cannot 
see there has been a financial loss in relation to the blocked payments as Mr G has said he 
was able to make the payments with an alternative card soon afterwards. And it appears the 
issue was fixed when Mr G was sent a new credit card. 
While I can appreciate it is frustrating for Mr G that he hasnt been given a clear explanation 
of exactly what happened, this is not always possible when a complaint is raised, and it 
depends on what information is still available. I dont think it was unreasonable that 
Barclaycard tried to give Mr G an explanation based on the information they had available, 
and I think the £50 compensation paid is a fair resolution to this aspect of the complaint. 
Ive gone on to consider the disputed transactions in April and Mr Gs comments that 
Barclaycard would not share information about the fraudster or their investigation and that he 
was told to contact the police himself. Mr G feels this aspect of the complaint should be 
upheld as there is no evidence of Barclaycards policy around sharing information about or 
prosecuting fraudsters. 
I can see in Barclaycards final response letter dated 14 July 2022 they do clearly state that 
they do not look to take legal action in these cases. And that Mr G would have to go to the 
police himself if he wanted to take legal action. Barclaycard have also confirmed in their file 
summary that they do not share information about third parties, even fraudsters, due to data 
protection issues. From my experience, this is not unusual, and I dont think Barclaycard 
have made an error in not sharing this information. Ultimately, I have to consider what I think 
is fair in the circumstances, and considering the volume of disputed transactions that 
Barclaycard deals with, I dont think it is unfair or unreasonable that they did not contact the 
police on Mr Gs behalf. 
In relation to the fraud script that the call handler read out to Mr G, I can understand why he 
was upset by the content. But I recognise that it is important for Barclaycard to ensure the 
information provided to them is accurate. In addition to this, they have explained that it is 
mandatory for call handlers to read this script when dealing with disputed transaction cases. 
With this in mind, I dont think it was unreasonable that they did so and I dont require Barclaycard to take any action to remedy this complaint point. 
In summary, while its frustrating Barclaycard could not give a clear explanation for the 
blocked payments in January and February, I think the £50 compensation is a fair resolution. 
And I cant see that Barclaycard have made an error in dealing with the disputed 
transactions in April, so I dont direct them to take any action relating to this.  
My final decision
I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to take any further action in 
relation to Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman