DRN-3517354
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain about Santander UK Plc and their involvement in their failed direct 
debit transaction intended to pay their council tax.
Mr M has acted as point of contact during the complaint, so I will refer to any comments 
made by Mrs M as Mr M throughout the decision for ease of reference.
What happened
Mr M held a joint current account with Santander. On 1 September, he received a text alert 
saying he had insufficient funds in the account to cover the direct debits due to be paid on 
that day. But when Mr M checked his balance, there was enough money in the account to 
cover the direct debits. So, Mr M raised a complaint.
Mr M was unhappy hed received a text saying he had insufficient funds. He explained he 
had a standing order set up to credit £500 into his Santander account on the 1st of each 
month to cover the pending direct debits taken the same day and he was unhappy this 
hadnt been recognised when the direct debts were processed. So, he wanted to be 
compensated for the upset this caused and to receive an explanation as to what went wrong.
Santander responded to Mr Ms complaint and upheld it in part. They thought theyd refused 
Mr Ms direct debit fairly, as this was requested before the £500 had been received into his 
account. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong when texting him to make him 
aware of this at the time. But they did recognise their complaint handler hadnt explained this 
process as clearly as they should have when Mr M called them. So, they paid Mr M £35 to 
reflect any upset this caused him. Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so he referred 
his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied the direct 
debits on Mr Ms account were processed before the £500 had been received. So, they 
didnt think Santander had done anything wrong when refusing Mr Ms direct debit related to 
his council tax, as accepting this debit wouldve taken Mr M into an unarranged overdraft. 
And they thought Santander acted fairly, in line with the terms of the account, when texting 
Mr M to make him aware of this. 
But our investigator acknowledged Santander had already accepted they couldve explained 
this, and the rerun process, more clearly. And they thought the £35 Santander offered was a 
fair one to recognise any upset this caused Mr M. So, they didnt think Santander needed to 
do anything more. Mr M didnt agree. As he didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I recognise Mr M had a 
standing order set up to credit his account with £500 on the 1st of every month. And I 
appreciate this amount was intended to pay the direct debits linked to his account provided 
by Santander on the same day. So, when Mr M received a text from Santander saying a 
direct debit had been refused, I can understand the upset and confusion this wouldve 
created, especially when Mr M checked his account balance and it was showing a balance 
that would cover the rejected direct debit. So, I can understand why Mr M would seek to 
clarify this with Santander, who have already accepted their explanation wasnt clear 
enough.
But for me to say Santander should compensate Mr M for the direct debit refusal itself, and 
the text Mr M received, Id need to be satisfied Santander failed to act in line with their terms 
and conditions when doing so. Or, if I think they did work within these, that they acted 
unfairly. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms account explains that transfers into the account via 
faster payment, which a standing order falls under, will usually be available as soon as its 
received. And that this is generally on the same day its sent. So, I think these terms suggest 
that payments received into this account by this method arent guaranteed to credit the 
account instantaneously.
Ive seen evidence that shows Santander received the £500 into the account just after 3am 
on 1st September. But crucially, this was after the direct debits had been attempted. Looking 
at the payment history of the account on that day, I can see four of the five direct debits Mr 
M had set up for that day were taken before the £500 was credited to the account. This 
satisfies me that the direct debits were attempted before the £500 has reached Mr Ms 
account. And so, I dont think there was enough money in Mr Ms account to cover all the 
direct debit payments.
The terms of Mr Ms account also explain that if a payment is attempted when there isnt 
enough money in the account, Santander will decide whether or not to refuse a payment due 
to lack of funds. So, I think Santander were able to refuse a direct debit and I cant say they 
acted outside of their terms when doing so. But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought 
about whether this was fair.
Santander have confirmed it wasnt an individual person who made the decision to refuse 
the direct debit. Instead, it was a system process. I can see that, had Santander paid all five 
direct debits in the first run, it wouldve left Mr M more than £400 overdrawn, placing him in 
an unarranged overdraft, as the £500 hadnt yet credited. And I wouldnt expect Santander to 
allow Mr M to place himself in this amount of debt. So, I dont think Santander have acted 
unfairly by refusing the final direct debit and because of this, I cant say theyve done 
anything wrong.
Santanders key facts document also explains that a customer will be automatically set up to 
receive an alert when they have refused a payment due to lack of funds or that a payment 
may take a customer into an unarranged overdraft. Santander have explained this is to 
ensure a customer has the ability to credit their account on the same day, so the direct debit 
can be taken during the second run which occurs later in the day. So, I think Santander 
acted in line with this term when contacting Mr M. And I think they acted fairly when doing 
so. I appreciate by the time Mr M read this message the £500 had credited his account, 
which will no doubt have caused some confusion. But I dont think this confusion has arisen from anything Santander did wrong. So, I dont think they need to do anything more for this 
aspect of the complaint.
However, I do recognise Santander have accepted they failed to clarify the situation to Mr M 
when he called the to understand why the direct debit had been refused. And I wouldve 
expected Santander to explain a direct debit run happens twice a day, meaning his direct 
debit would still be paid on the correct day and that no impact would be had on his credit file. 
But its accepted this wasnt explained. So, I think Santander failed to inform Mr M correctly 
and I think this created some confusion and worry for Mr M, which I think should be 
recognised with compensation.
Santander have already paid Mr M £35 to recognise this. And I think this offer is a fair one. I 
think this recognises Santanders failure to allay Mr Ms concerns when he called them, and 
the worry he wouldve felt until he saw the direct debit payment had gone through. But I also 
think its fairly takes into consideration the fact Mr M incurred no financial loss, or impact on 
his credit file and that Santander had acted fairly without making an error when the first 
direct debit attempt was refused. Because of this, I dont think Santander need to do 
anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. And I recognise Mr M will have 
concerns about this situation arising again. Im glad to see Santander considered Mr Ms 
request for an increase in his overdraft to ensure that, if the same situation was to arise, no 
debits should be refused.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman