DRN-1789791
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about issues hes experienced with a motorbike supplied with finance from 
Close Brothers Limited.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr H was supplied with a used motorbike and entered into a conditional 
sale agreement with Close Brothers. The monthly instalments were £140.02 for a term of 48 
months.
In July 2019 Mr H discovered that the motorbike was a category D write off. He complained 
to Close Brothers and asked to reject it.
Close Brothers agreed that Mr H should be allowed to reject the motorbike. It arranged for 
the bike to be collected from Mr H and taken to auction. Close Brothers advised Mr H that it 
would refund his deposit of £500 but it wouldnt refund any of his monthly payments because 
hed had full use of the bike.
Mr H wasnt happy with Close Brothers response and complained to this service. He wants a 
refund of all his monthly payments less a deduction for fair use, which he calculates at 700 
miles.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. her said he didnt think Mr H should be entitled to a 
refund of all his monthly payments because hed been able to use the motorbike all the time 
it was in his possession. But he felt Mr H should be compensated for the inconvenience of 
having to chase Close Brothers and having to return the motorbike to the auction agents.
Mr H wasnt happy with the outcome. He felt he should be refunded all of his monthly 
payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute between Mr H and Close Brothers that Mr H should be allowed to reject 
the bike. The only issue is whether Mr H should receive a refund of his monthly payments.
Mr H feels that he should receive a refund of all his payments because this would put him 
back in the position he was in as if he hadnt entered into the agreement. Hes 
acknowledged that hes had some use of the bike and proposed a deduction of 40p per mile 
based on 700 miles for fair use.
Close Brothers has said that although the bike was category D, it was mechanically sound, 
and Mr H has had full use of it all the time its been in his possession. It doesnt think it 
should have to refund any monthly payments.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mr Hs use of the bike has been impaired during the 
time hes had it in his possession. Theres no evidence of any mechanical or other defect 
which has caused Mr H a loss of enjoyment whilst using the motorbike.
Whilst there are circumstances where a rejection of a vehicle warrants a refund of payments 
made, this generally applies to situations where a consumer hasnt been able to use the 
vehicle at all or for an extended period due to faults. These circumstances dont apply in Mr 
Hs case, so I cant see any reason to ask Close Brothers to refund any payments.
Putting things right
I appreciate that Mr H feels that hes been left out of pocket by this experience. I can see 
that his deposit of £500 has been refunded. Id expect Close Brothers to pay interest on this 
amount at 8%. In addition, I think Mr H has suffered inconvenience as a result of having to 
chase Close Brothers to resolve matters and having to make arrangements to return the 
motorbike, so I think Close Brothers should compensate him for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Close Brothers Limited must pay 8% simple 
interest on Mr Hs deposit of £500 from the date of payment to the date of settlement. It must 
also pay 8% simple interest on the monthly payment taken in error from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement. Close Brothers Limited must also pay compensation of £75 for 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Emma Davy
Ombudsman