DRN-2888114
The complaint
 Mr E and Mrs E complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mishandled a 
Power of Attorney.
What happened
 Mrs E gave Mr E and his brother Power of Attorney (POA) over her property and financial 
affairs in June 2019. The joint current account for Mr E and Mrs E was operated by Mr E. 
Mr E and his brother fell out. On 18 December 2019, Mrs E signed a Deed of Revocation 
(DOR) to remove Mr Es brother from the POA. This was sent to the Office of the Public 
Guardian (OPG). On 31 December 2019, Mr E became aware that his brother had made an 
appointment with Nationwide to register the original POA on the bank account. He visited 
the branch and told them the DOR had been sent to the OPG. On 9 January 2020, 
Nationwide wrote to Mr E and Mrs E to say that Mr Es brothers POA had been registered 
on the bank account. Mr E called Nationwide on 14 January 2020 and asked that the 
account was blocked. On 21 January 2020, the OPG confirmed that Mr Es brother had 
been removed from the POA, and Mr E was then the only name on it.
Mr E and Mrs E complained that Nationwide had handled the POA badly. Hed told them 
about the DOR  so they shouldnt have accepted his brothers registration of the POA. 
And when he called them on 14 January 2020, he was told that it would take 48 hours to 
block the account. And, when the POA dispute was resolved, Nationwide wouldnt remove 
the block.
Nationwide said they could only act on legal documents, rather than what Mr E and Mrs E 
said to them. So  they were correct in accepting the registration of Mr Es brothers POA. 
And, they couldnt act on Mr E and Mrs Es verbal instruction when they told them on 3 
January 2020 and 14 January 2020 about the DOR  they needed to see the actual legal 
document (from the OPG). They had put a stop on the account after Mr E and Mrs E spoke 
to them on 14 January 2020 - and said theyd call him back within 48 hours to discuss 
things. The block on the account wasnt removed immediately because of the dispute 
between Mr E and his brother, and because they were aware that the OPG was 
investigating the POA. They needed to be certain everything was in order before lifting the 
block.
Mr E and Mrs E brought their complaint to us. Our investigator looked at what had
happened. She said that Mr E and Mrs E were told by Nationwide that no action would be 
taken with the POA until the OPG had been consulted  when theyd visited the branch 
early in January 2020. Nationwides notes say that in view of the dispute, no access to the 
bank account should be allowed. So  the versions of Nationwide and Mr E and Mrs E vary 
on this point. She felt that while there was notice that there was a DOR  Nationwide 
shouldnt have accepted registration of Mr Es brothers POA  and the account shouldve 
been blocked on 3 January 2020  as indicated by the branchs notes. On the call on 14 
January 2020, she could see there was uncertainty about what Mr E and Mrs E were told. 
Mr E and Mrs E thought they were told the block wouldnt be applied for 48 hours  
Nationwide said the block was applied immediately, but that they would call Mr E and Mrs E 
back after 48 hours to discuss things. The call wasnt recorded by Nationwide. On the delay 
in removing the block, she could see that Nationwide needed to ensure that everything was 
in order before lifting restrictions  so Nationwide acted fairly there. She said that 
Nationwide should pay compensation of £200 to Mr E and Mrs E for allowing Mr Es brother 
to register the POA and for not communicating effectively that a block had been placed on 
the account.
Nationwide disagreed and asked that the complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
 I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a different view to our investigator. I am upholding this complaint, but for different
reasons  and with a different level of compensation.
There are four key issues here:
Whether Nationwide should have allowed Mr Es brother to register his POA in 
January 2020, when Mr E and Mrs E had advised them that a DOR had been sent 
to the OPG.
Whether Nationwide blocked the bank account at the right stage.
Whether Nationwides communications about the block were clear.
Whether Nationwide shouldve lifted the block earlier.
Registration of the POA by Mr Es brother
Mr Es brother visited the branch in early January 2020 and registered the POA  which 
was the original POA dated June 2019  showing him as an attorney, along with Mr E. But 
 before that, on 18 December 2020, Mrs E had sent to the OPG a DOR removing Mr Es 
brother from the POA. The OPG didnt confirm that Mr Es brother was removed until 21 
January 2020. Nationwide argue that they could only act on legal documents, not on what 
Mr E and Mrs E told them  and I agree with them on this point. For example, it was 
possible that the OPG wouldnt accept the DOR (for whatever reason)  and Nationwide 
couldnt be expected to second guess what the OPG might or might not say. So  they 
were correct in accepting the registration of the POA by Mr Es brother. But, in any event, I 
note there was no damage done  because theres no evidence that Mr Es brother acted 
inappropriately by, for example, removing funds from the account. So  Nationwide acted 
fairly here. This is the most important aspect of this complaint.
Blocking of the bank account
Mr E and Mrs E visited the branch of Nationwide on 3 January 2020 and told the branch 
manager of the dispute over the POA and the impending DOR. The notes on the account 
by the branch manager say been informed by family a DOR has been applied for, dont 
give any access to acnt But  no block was place on the bank account. Given that 
Nationwide were aware of the dispute, they shouldve blocked the bank account then, until 
matters were sorted out. In the event, the account wasnt blocked until 14 January 2020  
when Mr E and Mrs E called Nationwide after theyd learned that the POA had been 
registered. So  for the period between 3 January 2020 and 15 January 2020, there was a 
risk that something might have happened which couldve caused problems. In the event, 
Ive seen no evidence that any or losses were incurred. But clearly, it caused Mr E and Mrs 
E some distress and concern. Nationwide shouldve acted when they were advised of the 
dispute - and I think they shouldve blocked the account earlier than they did  on 3 
January 2020.
Nationwides communications about the blockThere are differing versions of events here. Nationwide blocked the account on 15 January 
2020 when Mr E and Mrs E called them  and told them they would call them in 48 hours. 
Mr E and Mrs E say Nationwide said the block wouldnt be placed for 48 hours. There isnt 
a recording of the call, so we cant be certain of what was said. But  the block was 
certainly put in place. But Im inclined to accept Mr E and Mrs Es version of what was said 
here.
Lifting of the block
Mr E and Mrs E wanted the block to be lifted as soon as the OPG said it had accepted the 
DOR. Nationwide were on notice that the OPG were still investigating the POA. So  in 
those circumstances, Nationwide were correct in not lifting the block until they were 
satisfied everything was in order. So  they acted correctly here.
So  my conclusions are that Nationwide:
Acted correctly in allowing Mr Es brother to register the POA.
Shouldve blocked the bank account earlier than they did  on 3 January 2020. 
This caused Mr E and Mrs E some distress, but I also note that no losses 
occurred as a result.
Communications about the blocking of the account on 14 January 2020 
werent precise. This caused some concern to Mr E and Mrs E.
Were correct in not lifting the block immediately while the dispute was 
being resolved.
Its fair to say that distress in circumstances like this are heightened, and I can see how 
this affected Mr E and Mrs E. So, I agree that some compensation should be awarded. 
But, as my findings are that Nationwide were correct in allowing the registration of the 
POA  I think a lower amount of compensation than that recommended by our investigator 
is appropriate - and I think that £100 is right  largely for the delay in blocking the account.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr E and Mrs E disagreed and said (in summary):
Nationwide were negligent in handling the matter and gave poor service.
Nationwide shouldnt have registered the POA in favour of Mr Es brother as they 
were on verbal notice of the DOR.
They were told by the branch manager that Nationwides POA department always 
check with the OPG before registering a POA on the bank account  but this was 
wrong, as no such check was made.
The branch manager shouldve put the Nationwide POA on notice that a DOR 
existed  if this had been done, the POA wouldnt have been registered.
Nationwide cant hide behind their argument that a legal document overrides a verbal 
instruction.
Nationwide also disagreed and said (in summary):
They would always register a valid POA on a bank account. If the correct legal 
documents were presented, as they were in this case. They didnt check with the OPG about a possible DOR, but even if they had done so, they would still have been 
required to accept and register the POA they were presented with.
A block was placed on the account on 14 January 2020, when Mr E called them  not 
after 48 hours, which was the time advised for a call back to Mr E.
They dont feel that compensation should be paid in this case.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the further arguments put forward by both Mr E and Mrs E, and by Nationwide.  
On the registration of the POA in the name of Mr Es brother, I remain of the view that 
Nationwide acted correctly  that a correct legal document was presented, and this overrides 
a verbal advice of a dispute or the existence of a DOR. As I said in my provisional decision, 
the DOR couldve been dismissed (for whatever reason); and a verbal advice is just that  it 
cant take precedence over a legal document.
Mr E and Mrs E say that Nationwide told Mr E that their POA team would check with the 
OPG. Unfortunately, theres no record of exactly what was said in that conversation  but 
Nationwide have said that this wasnt part of their process, and in any case, even if they had 
done - a DOR which was in process still wouldnt outweigh a valid and legal POA.
On Nationwides point about the blocking of the bank account  this is largely irrelevant as I 
say the account shouldve been blocked when they were put on notice of the dispute on 3 
January 2020. This would then have protected all parties from any problems on the bank 
account - until the dispute over the POA and DOR was resolved.
But  as I said in my provisional decision, Ive seen no evidence of any inappropriate 
transactions on the bank account during the period in question  so there are no losses to be 
considered.
And so, on balance and in all the circumstances of this case, I remain with my provisional 
decision. Nationwide should have stopped the bank account at an earlier stage. But the 
registration of the POA on the bank account by them was correct.
Putting things right
 I am upholding this complaint, and Nationwide must pay compensation of £100 to Mr E and 
Mrs E for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society must pay £100 to Mr E and Mrs E for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman