DRN-4217106
The complaint
Miss J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have made multiple errors which have impacted 
her credit file negatively. 
What happened
Miss J says that she has held a current account and a credit card with HSBC since 2019, 
and she has never missed a payment on her credit card as her credit card has been set up 
to automatically deduct the monthly payment from her current account. She says that HSBC 
removed her overdraft without informing her, which led to her credit card payment being 
reversed. She says when she phoned HSBC to ask why this happened, they told her that 
they had sent her a letter, but Miss J says she didnt receive a letter about this. Miss J says 
they wouldnt remove the marker on her credit file relating to this. 
Miss J says that HSBC failed to update her direct debit with her new credit card, which led to 
non-payment and adverse credit information being reported on her credit file. Miss J says 
that in February 2023, she received a credit marker on her credit file when no payment was 
due in January 2023. Miss J made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC did not uphold Miss Js complaint. They said that they wrote to her on 5 October 2022 
confirming that no further payments would be collected by direct debit until she spoke with 
them, following the two payments being unpaid due to a lack of funds. They said she spoke 
with their branch on 30 December 2022, and they wrote to her on 4 January 2023 confirming 
that the direct debit was reinstated from her February 2023 payment. They said she should 
have paid the minimum of £416.08 by 3 January 2023. But only £350 was paid on 30 
December 2022. This meant that she was £66.08 behind with her payments. 
HSBC said Miss Js payments were only brought up to date on 6 February 2023, and her 
credit file would correctly show that she was behind with her payments in February 2023, 
even if only for part of the month. They said they were unable to amend her credit file as 
there had been no bank error. They apologised for any conflicting or incorrect information 
provided to her when visiting the branch regarding the direct debit to pay her credit card, but 
they attached a copy of their letter dated 4 January 2023 which detailed the direct debit 
arrangement. Miss J brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Js complaint. He said Miss J did not make the 
payments in full and these were reversed due to insufficient funds. She reinstated the direct 
debit in branch, and this was set up to be taken from 6 February 2023. He said there has 
been no HSBC error here, and they have an obligation to ensure the data they report to the 
credit reference agencies is an accurate representation of her account. Our investigator said 
he was unable to comment on what she was told in the branch, however, the previous direct 
debit had been cancelled due to two returned payments that were unsuccessful due to 
insufficient funds being available.
Miss J asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said there was no explanation as to why the correct direct debit was not set 
up until 30 December 2022 when she visited the branch. She said the amount on the 
statement dated 8 December 2022 should have been reiterated to her when she visited the 
branch on the same day. She said the basis of her complaint is regarding HSBC failing to 
update her direct debit details when she was issued with a new credit card in August 2022, 
which led to non-payment and credit markers. Miss J said she asked how much she would 
need to pay whilst she was at the branch, and she was told any amount by the bank staff, so 
she paid £350. Miss J said the direct debit for February 2023 was taken from her account, 
however she still received a marker on her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Miss Js complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by her. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.  
As the issue regarding the overdraft being removed has been dealt with under a separate 
complaint with our service, I will not be looking into the merits of this complaint point under 
this decision. 
Ive considered what Miss J has said about the basis of her complaint is regarding HSBC 
failing to update her direct debit details when she was issued with a new credit card in 
August 2022. But as HSBC have said in their communication to Miss J, the last credit card 
which was ordered for her was on 18 August 2021, and so this would have no impact on 
what happened here, despite what the staff in branch may or may not have told her. 
But just to make sure of this, Ive looked at Miss Js August 2022 credit card statement. Ive 
cross referenced this with her statements after August 2022, and this has the same card 
number, so the evidence doesnt suggest Miss J was sent a new credit card in August 2022. 
It's clear from Miss Js bank statement that after she paid her credit card payment by direct 
debit on 2 August 2022, her remaining balance was £1.70. No credits were paid into her 
account before the next direct debit was attempted on 5 September 2022. This meant there 
wasnt enough funds in her account for the £216.79 payment to be completed. And I cant 
hold HSBC responsible for this. I can see that Miss J had paid £350 into her HSBC account 
the following day, but this wasnt in her account in line with what her August 2022 credit card 
statement told her - Your nominated bank account will be debited by £216.79 on 05 Sep. 
HSBC have sent a letter to the same address as Miss J gave our service. The letter is dated 
6 September 2022, and this informs her the direct debit payment had been returned. I can 
see Miss J made a manual payment of £216.79 three weeks after she had paid the funds 
into her account. Its not clear why she didnt make the payment weeks earlier as this could 
have potentially avoided any impact on her credit file, but after this payment had been made, 
the account balance was £134.91. HSBC also say they sent Miss J a text on 5 September 
2022 informing her a direct debit may be reversed without sufficient available balance at 
3:30pm.
No more credits entered her current account before the next direct debit was attempted on 4 
October 2022 for £441.91. Miss J had been told on her statement dated 9 September 2022 
that Your nominated bank account will be debited by £444.91 on 04 Oct. So the only 
reason why this payment failed, was because Miss J didnt have enough money in her current account to make the payment after her statement clearly set out what would be 
collected. If there was any reason why Miss J wasnt getting her statements, then it would be 
her responsibility to inform HSBC about this. HSBC have also provided evidence that they 
sent Miss J a text message on 4 October letting her know that some direct debits may be 
reversed if there wasnt available funds in her account by 3:30pm.
So Im not persuaded these two missed payments had anything to do with a new credit card 
being issued. The evidence shows Miss J didnt have sufficient funds in her current account 
at the time the direct debit attempted to debit the payment. As two direct debit payments in a 
row had been missed, HSBC sent Miss J a letter dated 5 October 2022 which said You'll 
need to contact us to arrange to make those payments another way - We want to make sure 
you're able to pay these amounts before we request any further payments by Direct Debit, 
so we've temporarily suspended collection of your Direct Debit. This means we won't try to 
collect the payment(s) you've missed, or your monthly payments from now on until we talk to 
you. The letter urges Miss J to contact their financial support team. 
As the letter was addressed to the registered address, then I cant hold HSBC responsible 
for any postal issues if Miss J did not receive this letter as this would be outside of their 
control. But she ought to have been aware from her bank statements  which would be her 
responsibility to check, the text messages they sent her, and her credit card statements that 
she didnt have enough funds to pay the direct debit, and that this was returned unpaid. The 
letter was clear that they wont try to collect the payments shes missed, or her monthly 
payments from now on until they talk to her. But there is no evidence that Miss J got in touch 
with them before she visited the branch on 30 December 2022. 
So this is why no direct debit attempts were attempted between November 2022  January 
2023. While Miss J spoke to HSBC on 30 December 2022 in the branch, the direct debit 
wasnt set up in time to collect her January 2023 payment. HSBC were clear on a letter they 
sent her that We are pleased to confirm that this facility is now in place and that the first 
payment will be claimed from your bank account on 6 February 2023. You will still need to 
make alternative arrangements for any payments due before this date as these will not be 
collected by Direct Debit. Please check your most recent statement for details. So in all 
fairness, I cant reasonably say that HSBC were responsible for Miss Js direct debit issues.
Ive considered what Miss J has said about asking how much she would need to pay whilst 
she was at the branch, and she was told any amount by the bank staff. As I wasnt present in 
the branch, Im not party to the exact conversation she had with them, and any camera 
footage would not contain sound, (and it would have likely expired by now), so Im unable to 
rely on this here. But if Miss J was told she could pay any amount, this may suggest that the 
branch staff had misunderstood what Miss J had asked them. 
Miss J should be reasonably aware that she couldnt just pay any amount when her payment 
was usually in the three figures. Her statement clearly said that she needed to pay £416.08 
by 3 January 2023, so Miss J should have been reasonably aware of what she needed to 
pay on 30 December 2022. As Miss J had underpaid by £66.08, then this is why this would 
need to be reflected on her credit file. As Miss J did spend part of February 2023 in arrears, 
this is why HSBC might have reported the arrears in February 2023. But as HSBC are 
required to update her credit file with information about arrears and missed/late payments, it 
follows I dont require them to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman