DRN-3015314
The complaint
Miss B complains that Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Loans2Go lent Miss B a logbook loan in January 2013. The loan was for a £500 over 18 
months with 78 weekly repayments of £14.91, Loans2Go worked out that Miss B was due to 
repay £64.61 every month. The total sum repayable for the loan was £1,162.98. From the 
information provided, Miss B repaid the loan in 2014.
When Miss B complained to Loans2Go, it didnt uphold her complaint and so she referred it 
to this service, one of our investigators looked at the complaint and didnt think Loans2Go 
should have lent to Miss B.
Loans2Go disagreed and so the complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.  
Loans2Go has provided evidence to show that before lending this loan, it asked Miss B 
about her monthly income and expenses. It verified this information with her payslips and 
bank statements from around the time of the loan. Loans2Go said Miss Bs income was 
£1,437.73 and that it worked out her living costs and credit commitments to be £1,163.95 
and based on that Miss B had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan.
I dont think Loans2Go did enough with the information it had about Miss B. The information 
from the bank statements it had showed that Miss B was in at least five active debt 
management plans and it looks like she was in an arrangement to repay other debts. Miss B 
was also repaying a rent to own provider. Loans2Go could see from its checks that Miss B 
was struggling to manage her credit and when she requested this loan, she said she needed 
the loan for cash flow problems. Loans2Go needed to do more as the bank statements 
Loans2Go obtained didnt details Miss Bs full circumstances.
Miss B has now provided full bank statements which Ive had a chance to review and looking 
at that information Miss B wouldnt have been left with sufficient disposable income after 
repaying this loan.
Taking into account her reason for the loan and her circumstances, Loans2Go should have 
been aware that Miss B had wider financial problems and so beyond the pounds and pence 
calculation, Miss B wasnt in a position to sustainably repay this loan when Loans2Go lent to 
her.
Overall Loans2Go shouldnt have lent to Miss B and it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Miss B paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan from Miss Bs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans2Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans2Go must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman