DRN-3128148
The complaint
Ms K complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Moneybarn, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms K acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
There no longer seems to be a disagreement about whether the car here was of 
unsatisfactory quality. Moneybarn have accepted the independent inspectors view that the 
gearbox was most likely to have been faulty when the car was supplied. Theyve been 
prepared to pay some of the repair costs and have agreed with the supplying dealership that 
they will fund the balance. Theyve also agreed to pay Ms K £150 in respect of the distress 
and inconvenience shes been caused and to provide a hire car for up to 3 weeks whilst the 
repair is being completed. 
The relevant legislation says that the business should be given an opportunity to repair a 
vehicle that is faulty at the point of supply. Im persuaded by the independent engineers 
report that this vehicle was likely to have been faulty when supplied and I would agree that 
Moneybarn should therefore arrange to have it repaired. Im asking them to fund the cost of 
that repair. I understand they may have an agreement with the dealership to fund part of that 
payment but that is a matter for them and not something Ms K should need to be concerned 
about. Id also agree that the compensation Moneybarn have offered is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Our investigator didnt think Moneybarn had done all they needed to. She didnt think 
Moneybarn had considered the monthly finance instalments Ms K was contracted to pay. 
She noted that no payments had been made by Ms K since the car broke down in March 
2021 and she thought Moneybarn should waive payments from that date until the car was 
repaired as it was clear Ms K had no use of the car during that period. That seems sensible 
in the circumstances as it would not be fair for Ms K to be paying for a car she wasnt able to 
use. 
I understand Ms K has raised issues with Moneybarn about mileage discrepancies and 
number plate changes. Moneybarn have offered to investigate this further if Ms K can 
provide some supporting evidence. It wasnt an issue that Moneybarn considered in their 
final response to Ms K on 29 March 2021, so I think thats a fair offer and not something Ill 
therefore be considering any further in this decision.  
Putting things right
Moneybarn will need to carry out the actions Ive listed above in order to resolve this matter 
for Ms K
They should also ensure that any adverse reports theyve made to Ms Ks credit file are 
removed.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to:
Arrange to have the car repaired and at no cost to Ms K;
pay Ms K a further £150 in respect of the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused;
waive any monthly finance instalments due from March 2021 until the car is repaired 
and Ms K is in possession of it. If any monthly finance instalments have been paid for 
this period, Moneybarn should refund them to Ms K adding 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Ks credit file in relation to 
this issue.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman