DRN-3412474
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (AIC) unfairly accepted liability 
for a car accident without properly reviewing all the available evidence. She also complains 
about the way they handled her claim.
Mrs Ms son helped her make this complaint. To keep things simple, references to Mrs M 
and AIC include representatives and agents acting on their behalf. 
What happened
Mrs M had motor insurance with AIC. On 26 May 2019 she was involved in a serious car 
accident at a road junction. She told AIC the traffic light had been green in her direction 
when the collision happened, and that the police had details of witnesses who could confirm 
this. 
Mrs M says AIC sent her a letter dated 14 August 2019, saying they were attempting to 
obtain full reimbursement of losses incurred from the other party and that theyd keep her 
updated. 
On 7 September 2019 AIC received a copy of the police report on the accident  they 
accepted liability for the accident less than two weeks later. But Mrs M didnt hear about this 
until 9 December 2019, when she contacted AIC about pursuing a personal injury claim 
using the legal protection cover provided by her policy. AIC agreed to the appointment of a 
solicitor, L, to handle a personal injury claim on her behalf.
 
On 23 December 2019 Mrs M complained to AIC about their handling of her claim - and that 
they shouldnt have accepted liability for the accident without making further enquiries. She 
told them the police had produced an updated report which didnt blame either driver for the 
accident. And that there was CCTV footage and two independent witnesses to the accident. 
She said that, by incorrectly admitting liability, AIC had adversely affected her future car 
insurance premiums and her chances of making a successful claim for the serious injuries 
shed suffered. She asked them to carry out further investigation and reconsider their 
decision. 
In response, AIC said theyd made the right decision about liability for the accident. They 
said that, as no new evidence had come to light, they hadnt changed their stance on this. 
But they apologised for not having updated her at the time and for failing to acknowledge 
some of her correspondence. They offered her £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
this had caused.
 
Mrs M complained to AIC again, saying they couldnt make the right decision about liability 
without obtaining the updated police report, the CCTV footage, and a statement from the 
independent witness. 
On 1 July 2020 AIC sent Mrs M a letter asking whether shed be willing to attend court if 
necessary. Upset by this, Mrs M contacted AIC to ask why she needed to attend court if they 
werent defending the third partys claim against her. They told her to disregard this letter. 
She told them again that the initial police report had been incorrect, and that other evidence 
was available.
AIC sent their final response to Mrs Ms complaint on 10 August 2020. They said theyd 
accepted liability because they couldnt show the other driver had acted negligently. They 
said a green traffic signal means to proceed with caution, even with the right of way. They 
said the greater onus of care would be on Mrs M, as she was crossing two lanes of 
oncoming traffic. 
AIC acknowledged that Mrs M had made them aware of a witness who could confirm shed 
gone through a green traffic light. They said L was responsible for obtaining this, as it formed 
part of the evidence needed to support her personal injury claim. They said they were 
satisfied that they hadnt made any errors in their correspondence. But they increased their 
offer of compensation to £200 for Mrs Ms loss of expectations. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She noted that AICs policy documents 
gave them a contractual right to take over and deal with a claim in Mrs Ms name - and that 
they didnt need her approval for this. She felt the initial police report was clear and hadnt 
mentioned any witnesses. 
The investigator was satisfied that AIC had made reasonable attempts to obtain the CCTV 
footage from the police, but theyd been told it wasnt available. And that theyd reviewed 
their decision when the CCTV footage was provided; but found it to be inconclusive. She 
noted L had agreed to pursue further evidence, including a statement from the witness. And 
that AIC had agreed to review their liability decision based on that witness statement, which 
she didnt consider to be unreasonable in the circumstances. 
The investigator didnt think AIC had acted unreasonably by writing to Mrs M asking whether 
shed be prepared to attend court. Although she agreed that they could have updated Mrs M 
sooner about their decision to accept liability, she felt their offer of £200 was fair for the 
stress and inconvenience this caused. So, she didnt think AIC should have to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint.
Mrs M disagreed. She said shed told AIC several times that further evidence was available, 
but it had taken eight months of stress, trouble, and inconvenience to persuade them to 
agree to look into this. She said it would have been far more likely that the witness would 
have been traced if AIC had progressed things properly. 
Mrs M also didnt accept that it was reasonable for AIC to send her a letter about attending 
court. She said this was another example of the incompetent way in which her claim had 
been handled  and that this had added to her stress whilst she was trying to recover from 
her injuries. 
My provisional decision
On 14 February 2022 I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance that insurers such as 
AIC must follow  these are set out in the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS). This includes a requirement to handle claims promptly and fairly. Ive kept this in 
mind while reviewing Mrs Ms complaint. The content of the initial police accident report isnt disputed. It said that, from checking 
CCTV, it would appear Mrs Ms car had gone through a red light causing the collision. But 
Mrs M feels strongly that AIC shouldnt have made a decision about liability on the police 
report alone, without obtaining a copy of the CCTV footage or statements from the 
independent witnesses shed told them about. 
Having given careful thought to this point, I cant say AIC did anything wrong by accepting 
liability based on the report they received from the police in September 2019. I think it was 
reasonable for them to assume that report was based on information obtained from all the 
available sources of evidence the police had identified at the scene of the accident  
including any witnesses and CCTV footage. 
AIC have provided a copy of Mrs Ms policy booklet, which Ive reviewed. I can see that AIC 
have the contractual right to take over and deal with the third-party claim made against her. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest they needed to obtain her permission or agreement before 
deciding whether to accept liability. But both parties agree there was an expectation that AIC 
would contact Mrs M to explain their decision. 
Mrs M has told us that, as soon as she heard AIC had accepted liability, she made enquiries 
with the police about the content of their accident report, what the CCTV showed and 
whether theyd got the witnesses contact details. She says, and I accept, that shed have 
made these enquiries much sooner if AIC had told her about their decision in September 
2019. Ill come back to this point when I discuss what AIC should do to put things right.
Ive seen evidence showing that, with the complaint she made to AIC on 23 December 2019, 
Mrs M attached a copy of an email shed received from the police. Ive seen a copy of that 
email, in which the police officer said the insurance company possibly hadnt seen the full 
write-off for the collision, which didnt apportion any blame to either driver. 
Mrs M feels AIC should have worked with L to request the additional evidence needed to 
dispute liability for the accident, but they failed to do so. She feels confident that, after the 
accident, one of the witnesses would have provided a statement confirming the traffic light 
had been green in her direction. But that, after the amount of time thats passed, theres now 
little prospect of that witness coming forward. Ive looked into the points shes made. 
I havent seen any evidence as to the date or basis on which L were appointed. But I can 
see that Mrs Ms policy included legal protection cover. Under the terms of the policy, if her 
personal injury claim had reasonable prospects AIC would choose an appointed 
representative to act on her behalf. Reasonable prospects is defined as at least 51% 
chance of the claim succeeding. It follows that, when AIC chose L to act for Mrs M, they 
considered there to be at least 51% chance of proving the third party had been to blame for 
the accident. 
Ive seen evidence confirming L had got in touch with Mrs M by 19 December 2019. She told 
them that AIC had accepted liability for the accident and asked how she could proceed. AIC 
have told us that L contacted them on 14 January 2020 asking them for evidence and 
querying whether liability had been accepted. Theyve told us that L chased them for a 
response several times during February, March, and April 2020. And that, on 14 April 2020, 
L asked them to formally retract their acceptance of liability due to the CCTV evidence 
having become available. Ive seen no evidence showing AIC responded to Ls emails. 
AIC have told us that, on 6 August 2020, it was agreed that L would pursue the amended 
police report and witness details to see if evidence could be obtained to prove Mrs M was 
not at fault. Theyve told us they wouldnt retract their admission of liability until they had evidence to support them doing so. But that they saw no reason to duplicate the effort of 
obtaining this evidence. I consider this approach to be fair and reasonable. 
But I have to bear in mind that Mrs M brought this additional evidence to AICs attention on 
23 December 2019. Ive seen no explanation as to why it took until 6 August 2020  a delay 
of more than seven months  to agree who would try to obtain that additional evidence. I can 
see that this lack of any apparent progress has increased the upset Mrs M has experienced. 
The evidence Ive seen suggests L began trying to contact the witness in August 2020 - 15 
months after the accident. And that all attempts have been unsuccessful. I accept that the 
likelihood of a witness coming forward decreases over time. And whilst I dont find AIC to be 
the sole cause of the delay in contacting this witness, Im not satisfied that they did enough 
to progress things promptly for Mrs M. 
Mrs M has told us that she was further distressed when she received AICs letter dated 1 
July 2020, asking whether shed be prepared to attend court if necessary. AIC have told us 
that this was sent as a result of a communication theyd received from the third-party insurer 
about recovery of their losses. Although I can understand why Mrs M would find it confusing 
and distressing to receive this letter, I dont consider AIC to have done anything wrong by 
sending it to her.
Putting things right
Theres no way of knowing whether the witness would have come forward if hed been 
contacted sooner after the accident. Or whether hed have been able to provide evidence 
that would have been helpful to Mrs M. 
But I think AICs failure to notify Mrs M of their liability decision, and the delay in agreeing 
who would make enquiries into the additional evidence shed told them about, lessened the 
chance of further valuable evidence being obtained. And Im satisfied that this increased the 
distress and inconvenience Mrs M experienced at a time that was already very difficult for 
her, whilst she was recovering from her injuries. 
I note that AIC have offered £200 compensation. I bear in mind the fact that Mrs Ms son has 
helped her with this claim, which has no doubt reduced the amount of trouble shes been put 
to. But based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I consider the sum of £450 to more fairly 
reflect the upset Mrs M has experienced, as well as her loss of opportunity. 
I said I was minded to direct AIM to pay Mrs M the total sum of £450 compensation for the 
upset and loss of opportunity she experienced. I invited both parties to send me any further 
comments or information theyd like me to consider. 
Responses to my provisional decision
AIC didnt respond. Mrs M sent a detailed reply - Ill summarise the points she made:
AIC were told about the availability of CCTV footage and independent witnesses by 
telephone on 18 July 2019 and 7 August 2019. This should have been explored to 
prevent incorrect acceptance of liability.
No response was received to her initial complaint for over three months. When a 
response was received it consisted of two contradictory letters, both dated 2 March 
2020. A further complaint was made on 14 April 2020. No response was received 
until 10 August 2020.AIC shouldnt have sent the letter dated 1 July 2020. When she queried it, AIC told 
her that they didnt know why this letter had been sent, shed only been sent some of 
the questions and she should ignore it.
Rather than just being a case of extremely poor customer service, once a decision 
was made to accept liability there also seems to have been an element of obstruction 
and wilful disregard of the issues and evidence that had been brought to their 
attention on numerous occasions over a prolonged period of time. Looking at the 
timeline of events, lack of response and inordinate amount of time taken to respond 
to complaints its difficult to understand how so many mistakes could be made 
inadvertently. 
Although her son helped her with the claim due to her age and serious injuries she 
sustained, this hasnt really shielded her from the stress and inconvenience of trying 
to resolve this matter. 
Mrs M said that, although it will never fully compensate her for the time, stress and 
detrimental effect on the outcome of the case, compensation of between £550 and £750 
would be more acceptable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mrs M for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. Having 
carefully considered the points shes made Im not persuaded that I should change my 
findings. 
I dont dispute that Mrs M made AIC aware of the availability of CCTV and independent 
witnesses before they received the police report. But as I explained in my provisional 
decision, I find it reasonable for AIC to assume that the police report received in September 
2019 took into account any witnesses and CCTV footage. So I cant say AIC did anything 
wrong by accepting liability at that stage. 
I appreciate Mrs M feels strongly that AIC have made a series of errors that obstructed the 
progress of her claim. But the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt to punish 
businesses. Where we find that a business has got things wrong, we award compensation 
for the overall impact that had on the customer - not the number or nature of the mistakes 
made. I consider the sum of £450 compensation to fairly reflect the upset and loss of 
opportunity Mrs M experienced in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct 
Acromas Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs M a total sum of £450 in compensation for 
the upset and loss of opportunity shes experienced.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman