DRN-3030777
The complaint
Mr K complained that Next Retail Limited acted irresponsibly when they agreed to provide 
him with a Next Pay credit account and later increased his limit on two occasions. 
What happened
Mr K applied for a Next credit account in August 2017. Next agreed his application with an 
initial credit limit of £600.
Next wrote to Mr K in November 2017 offering to increase his credit limit to £2,000. Mr K 
accepted their offer and the new limit was applied on his December 2017 statement.
Next wrote to Mr K again in March 2018 offering to increase his limit again. This time to 
£3,750. Mr K was given the option to decline the offer. Mr K didnt reply to Next, so his limit 
was increased and shown on his April 2018 statement.
Mr K said that Nexts actions caused him financial hardship and resulted in him entering into 
a debt management plan.
Mr K believes that Next acted irresponsibly when they agreed to provide credit to him. He 
said he was experiencing financial difficulties and Nexts decisions made the situation worse. 
So, he complained to Next in April 2021. He wanted them to refund all interest and charges 
on his account and allow him to repay just the capital sum owed.
Next responded to Mr Ks complaint in writing on 19 April 2021. They didnt agree that theyd 
acted irresponsibly here. They explained how theyd reached their decisions using 
information from a credit reference agency about his financial situation at the time. They told 
Mr K that the information theyd received didnt suggest any financial difficulties. Next said 
that they couldnt agree to refund charges and interest as these had been applied in line with 
the credit agreement.
Mr K wasnt happy with Nexts response. So, he decided to refer his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint. She 
didnt think that Next had acted unfairly here. She didnt believe that they needed to do 
anything more.
Mr K asked for the circumstances of his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr K applied for a credit account, Next were required to adhere to the rules described 
in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) credit sourcebook section CONC 5.2A. In 
particular, Next shouldve completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
themselves that Mr K would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way. 
There isnt a set list of checks to be completed. The rules and guidance refer to checks 
being proportionate. This may depend upon the type and amount of credit and the likely 
duration, amount and frequency of payments. The nature and extent of these checks 
shouldve also considered Mr Ks personal circumstances. I would expect Next to consider 
the level of credit proportionate to Mr Ks income and its stability, together with his financial 
history.
Next have provided details of how they assessed Mr Ks original application in August 2017. 
In particular, they used information obtained from a credit reference agency to assess Mr Ks 
financial situation. The information included an affordability assessment based upon Mr Ks 
existing commitments and how theyd been managed. 
Ive looked at the information obtained by Next. There doesnt seem to be any indication that 
Mr K was experiencing any financial difficulties at the time. It appears existing credit was 
being well managed with no adverse markers or information reported. So, I believe that the 
checks completed by Next were proportionate in these circumstances and their decision to 
provide a £600 credit limit wasnt unreasonable.
I also think its relevant to say that the nature of the credit account agreed by Next would 
only enable Mr K to make purchases from within the Next Group. This is confirmed within 
Nexts credit agreement. So, the account provided was not a general credit card and its use 
was, therefore, restricted.
I then looked at Nexts decision to offer Mr K a limit increase to £2,000 in November 2017. 
Next explained they continued to receive information from the credit reference agency about 
Mr Ks financial circumstances each month. This enabled them to regularly review Mr Ks 
situation. 
Ive looked at the information used by Next when they offered the limit increase. It appears 
Mr K ran his Next account without any noticeable difficulty. He didnt exceed the limit 
provided and made monthly payments on time. The credit reference agency didnt report any 
adverse information that would cause Next concern here. So, based upon this information, 
Next offered to increase Mr Ks limit. I believe that the checks completed were proportionate 
and that Nexts decision wasnt unreasonable.
When offering a higher limit, Next gave Mr K the opportunity to refuse the increase. Next 
have confirmed that Mr K actively responded to accept their offer. The increased limit was 
applied to his statement in December 2018.
Next confirmed they followed the same process to assess Mr Ks suitability for a further limit 
increase to £3,750 in April 2018. Again, from the information provided by Next, there 
appears to have been no adverse information reported by the credit reference agency. 
Existing credit appeared to be well managed with no apparent cause for concern or warning 
signs.
Its relevant to say that while Next did increase Mr Ks limit to £3,750 in April 2018, Mr K 
didnt utilise this. The maximum amount he owed, at any time was £1,127.02 in October 
2019. Up to September 2019, his balance remained below £200.
Mr K has provided bank statements for the period May 2017 to April 2018, to support his 
claim that his was in financial difficulty. Throughout the period, Mr K regularly increased his 
overdraft facility. But I can see no obvious signs of difficulty. His overdraft limit was never 
exceeded, and the balance fluctuated each month on receipt of his salary.
Mr K has also provided a personal credit report dated January 2021. This clearly shows that 
Mr K is currently experiencing financial problems with multiple late payments and defaults. 
But I havent seen any adverse information reported before August 2019. It also appears that 
the majority of reported credit started after Next increased Mr Ks limit in December 2018.
Next confirmed that they suspended Mr Ks credit limit in October 2019 based upon warning 
information received from the credit reference agency. I think this was appropriate and 
responsible in the circumstances.So, while I appreciate that Mr Ks current financial circumstances may undoubtedly be 
causing him stress and worry, I cant reasonably conclude that Next have acted irresponsibly 
here. I notice that Next have acknowledged Mr Ks situation and offered to discuss possible 
solutions to help him. I believe this is the right approach and would encourage Mr K to 
discuss his options further with them.
I appreciate that Mr K will be disappointed, but I shant be asking Next to do anything more 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman