DRN-3244790
The complaint
Mr S complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited unfairly avoided his car 
insurance policy following a claim. 
What happened
Mr S took out a policy with the AA through an aggregator site. The policy then renewed with 
the AA the following year. Mr Ss car was damaged in an incident with another car, so he 
claimed on his policy. During the claim the AA discovered that Mr S had been involved in 
another incident a few years earlier which he hadnt told them about. 
The AA said if Mr S had told them about this previous incident then it wouldnt have offered 
him a policy. Because of this they avoided his previous two policies and declined his claim. 
The AA refunded the first years premium to him but said as a third party had claimed on his 
policy during the second year, they were retaining the premium to cover the third partys 
claim costs. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair and complained, he said the previous incident was in a 
company car and the company had claimed on its policy for the damage. He also said he 
didnt think reversing into a bollard amounted to an incident he needed to declare. The AA 
reviewed his complaint but didnt uphold it. They said while it wasnt his policy the claim was 
on he still should have told them about his when he took out a policy with them and again 
when he renewed it. Mr S didnt agree and referred his complaint here, he said the incident 
had been only a couple of months away from not needing to be declared so didnt think it 
was fair and reasonable for the AA to avoid his policy. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found 
that the information in the renewal documentation was clear and that Mr S hadnt taken 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. She also thought it was fair for the AA to 
refund the first years premium but retained the second years one to cover the third partys 
claim. Mr S didnt agree, he didnt think it was fair for the AA to avoid his policy and turn 
down his claim. 
As Mr S didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
The AA thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took out his policy with them originally and when it renewed a year later. They said this is 
because Mr S didnt disclose a previous incident he had, while driving a company car.  
Ive looked at the question Mr S was asked when he originally took out his policy through the 
aggregator site and also what information he was provided with when his policy renewed. 
The question asked when Mr Ss policy was originally sold says: 
Have you had any driving incidents or made any insurance 
claims in the last five years?
There is help menu below which you can expand to assist you in answering the question. In 
the help section it talks about claims and refers to your policy. And as Mr Ss incident 
resulted in a claim which wasnt on his policy, he doesnt think he answered this question 
incorrectly. While I can see the help section just talked about claims, the question also asked 
about incidents. And Mr S agrees he damaged a company vehicle, which the company then 
claimed for. Im therefore satisfied that he should have reasonably been aware he needed to 
tell The AA about this when taking out his policy, by answering yes to this question as it 
also asked about driving incidents. 
The renewal documentation Mr S was sent has a section titled in bold About The 
Declaration of The Driver(s).  It then goes on to say:
Have you or any person who will drive been involved in 
any accident or suffered any loss (whether to blame or not) 
involving a motor vehicle - whether or not the subject of an 
insurance claim - in the last five years?
Below this and next to Mr Ss name it says No. At the time Mr Ss policy was due to renew, 
his previous incident where he reversed into a bollard in a company car was within five 
years. Because of this he should have let The AA know that this section should have said 
Yes. 
The AA has provided evidence which shows if Mr A had answered this question correctly, 
they wouldnt have offered him cover. This means Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation was 
a qualifying one.
The AA have said Mr Ss misrepresentation was careless. I agree with The AA treating it as 
careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. As Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation should 
be treated as careless, Ive looked at the actions The AA can take in accordance with 
CIDRA. 
As the AA has shown they wouldnt have offered cover at all, they are able to avoid his 
policies and not cover any claims but need to return the premium to him. The AA have 
refunded the original premium but have retained the second years premium to cover the 
third-party claim costs. While it isnt technically allowed under CIDRA to retain the second 
years premium. Im not going to interfere with the AA doing so, as they covered the third 
party claim when they avoided Mr Ss policy. This is because the AA would be able to go after Mr S for the third-party claim costs, as it avoided his policy. By not doing so and instead 
covering the third-party claim costs. Im satisfied the AA has treated Mr S fairly in the 
circumstances. 
Ive also considered Mr Ss comments about the second policy not being a new contract, and 
him not reading the policy documents in full as theyd gone into his junk folder. And while I 
empathise with his situation and reasons, it doesnt change the fact that the information 
provided to the AA wasnt correct during the initial sale, and renewal. And while Mr S doesnt 
think theyre separate contracts, the two policies are which is why Ive considered the 
information provided in both sales. I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr S was hoping for, but 
Im unable to say the AA has treated him unfairly in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Im not going to interfere with AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds decision to avoid Mr Ss policies, cover the third-
party claim costs and return his first policy years premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman