DRN-4166296
The complaint
Ms L complains about a decision by Ikano Bank Ab (publ), who Ill call Ikano, not to uphold
a claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ikano, but I dont currently think this sofa has been of satisfactory
quality and Im inclined to tell them to allow Ms L to reject it. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Miss L had her cushions repaired on 20 April 2022, but emails and photographs show she
was complaining about the stitching coming adrift again only a couple of weeks later. The
photographs at that time show the stitches parting, but by the time of the inspectors visit in
June 2022 the area had torn.
The inspector suggested the damage had been caused by Ms Ls dog, but I dont think the
photographs demonstrate that. There are no claw or teeth marks visible for instance. Im
persuaded by Ms Ls testimony, and the relatively short period before she complained about
the fault reoccurring, that the repair had most probably failed. So, I think there has been a
breach of contract here as it seems the sofa has not been of satisfactory quality. I dont
therefore think Ikano have been reasonable to reject Ms Ls section 75 claim.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation is the Consumer Rights Act (2015). That gives the business one
opportunity to repair a fault that is present, or developing, at the point the goods are
supplied. But if that repair fails, as I think has been the case here, the consumer should be
allowed to reject the goods and end the finance agreement. I can see that is Ms Ls
preferred option.
In those circumstances, the business should end the finance agreement and refund the
instalments paid less an amount for fair usage. Ive considered what that fair usage should
be. Ms L took receipt of the sofa in November 2020, so shes had use of it for about 29
months. But that usage has been impaired because of the damage Ms L has explained shes
had to cover up. In the circumstances, I think Ikano should be entitled to retain 70% of all
instalments paid in respect of the use Ms L has had, but theyll need to refund the remainder
and they should add interest to that refund as Ms L has been deprived of the money.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Ikano
Bank Ab (publ) to:
End the finance agreement with nothing more to pay and collect the sofa at no
charge to Ms L.
Refund 30% of all finance instalments Ms L has paid and add 8% simple interest per
year to the refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement. If payments
were due but havent been paid Ikano should waive them.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Ms Ls credit file in 
relation to this issue.
Additional comments or evidence
Ms L accepted my provisional decision and Ikano didnt provide any further comments or 
evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with any additional comments or evidence that would lead me to 
change my provisional decision.
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Ikano Bank Ab (publ) to:
End the finance agreement with nothing more to pay and collect the sofa at no
charge to Ms L.
Refund 30% of all finance instalments Ms L has paid and add 8% simple interest peryear to the refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement. If payments
were due but havent been paid Ikano should waive them.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Ms Ls credit file in 
relation to this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman