DRN-3544515
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car supplied to him by Black Horse Limited (Black 
Horse).
What happened
Mr H acquired a used car under a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse for £3,999 in 
August 2021. The car was around four years old and had covered 19,680 miles when it was 
supplied to Mr H. He also agreed to purchase a warranty for the car which cost £999. Under 
the agreement, Mr H was required to make 60 payments of £65.33.
The following day, Mr H contacted Black Horse and let it know the brakes were grinding and 
the wing mirror couldnt be adjusted. He said he didnt think the car was safe and so he 
didnt want to drive it. Black Horse contacted the supplying dealer, who Ill refer to as S, who 
said it had asked Mr H to bring the car to it in September 2021, so it could rectify any 
outstanding issues. Mr H had a safety inspection carried out independently which confirmed 
there were outstanding issues with the brakes. Unhappy with this, Mr H complained to Black 
Horse.
Black Horse issued its response to Mr Hs complaint in October 2021. It accepted it supplied 
Mr H with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. It said Mr H had advised it that a repair 
was his preferred resolution to his complaint and asked Mr H to provide it with a quotation for 
the repair of the brakes and drivers wing side mirror. It also said it would pay him £150 for 
any distress and inconvenience it had caused and £31.70 for any loss of enjoyment hed 
experienced with the car since it was supplied to him.
In November 2021, Mr H told Black Horse the car had been repaired and sent it invoices to 
evidence the cost of the repairs. These were £29.99 for a car safety inspection, £28.62 to 
repair the wing mirror and £259.18 for the brake repair. Mr H also requested that Black 
Horse pay his road tax and insurance for the period he was unable to use the car. And he 
said as a result of him being unable to use the car, he had to cancel a holiday to visit his 
mother. He said it was the first trip he was due to go on in two years and it was inconvenient 
and upsetting that he couldnt go. He also said his wife was inconvenienced as he had to 
use her car to get to work and had to cancel a number of standing arrangements when he 
was unable to use his wifes car. Mr H also said he was unhappy with the customer service 
Black Horse provided him whilst it was looking into his complaint. 
In December 2021, Black Horse responded and said it was happy to reimburse Mr H the 
cost of the repairs and £178.66 for the 62 days he didnt use the car. It also said it would 
arrange an independent inspection of the car. In January 2022, Mr H responded and 
declined Black Horses offer to have an independent inspection carried out. However, he 
asked Black Horse to list a full breakdown of the amounts it was willing to pay him. 
In March 2022, Black Horse confirmed its offer was to pay Mr H a total of £678.15. This was 
made up of £317.79 for the cost of repairs, £31.70 for the loss of enjoyment, £178.66 for 62 
days loss of use of the car and £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Black Horse 
paid Mr H £181.70 on 24 March 2022.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated his complaint and said he was 
unhappy with the amount of compensation Black Horse had offered. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought the amount Black Horse had offered 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. He said Black Horse had offered what he 
would have recommended had it not made an offer. And he said whilst he was sorry to hear 
about the cancellation of Mr Hs holiday, there was no supporting information to show Mr H 
didnt have access to alternative transport or that Mr H incurred any additional costs, such as 
taxis, during the period. So he didnt recommend Black Horse made any additional payments 
to Mr H.
Mr H disagreed and said it would have cost him around £3,000 to pay for taxis or rent 
alternative transport whilst he was unable to use the car. And so he didnt do this as it wasnt 
feasible. He said he had to continue to pay tax, insurance, extended warranty, MOT and 
servicing costs, totalling £210.36, whilst he was unable to use the car for 62 days. He said 
he didnt think £150 compensation was enough and said £300 to £700 was more 
appropriate. He said he had to cancel a holiday to see his mother and he had to cancel 
weekly arrangements which formed part of his management of his health. He also said  
Black Horse didnt respond to any of his emails.
Our investigator reviewed this information and said the additional costs Mr H had mentioned 
for tax, insurance, extended warranty, MOT and servicing costs, were costs that would have 
always been incurred by Mr H, regardless of whether he used the car or not. And so, he 
didnt think it was reasonable that Black Horse reimbursed Mr H for these costs. He said he 
couldnt consider some of the points Mr H had raised about Black Horses customer service 
as these were considered complaint handling and so not issues this service could consider.
Mr H provided supporting information to show he had arranged to see his mother and then 
had to cancel this due to the fault with the car. 
Mr H remains unhappy, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
As Mr H has accepted what our investigator said about the additional costs and the 
customer service provided by Black Horse, I havent commented on these as part of this 
decision.
Since Mr Hs complaint was passed to me, Black Horse arranged to pay Mr H the 
outstanding £496.45 with 8% applicable simple interest and a further £100 compensation for 
the delay in paying the outstanding amount to Mr H. 
I wrote to Mr H about this offer and asked for his comments. Mr H confirmed he received 
these payments from Black Horse and thanked this service for arranging the payment. Mr H 
reiterated his complaint and said he didnt think compensation of £31.70 was sufficient for 
the 62 days loss of enjoyment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr H has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. The rules of the service allow me to do this.
Quality of goods supplied under the agreementThe finance agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. So our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Black Horse is the supplier of the car under this 
type of agreement and so is responsible for dealing with a complaint about its quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 covers hire purchase agreements. Under a hire purchase 
agreement, there are implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality. In Mr Hs case, the car he acquired was used  so there would be different 
expectations compared to a new car. Having said that, the cars condition at the point of 
supply, should have met the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, 
given its age, mileage and price.
In this case, Im satisfied that the car had a fault with it shortly after it was supplied to Mr H. I 
say this because Mr H had an independent inspection carried out of the car a couple of days 
after he acquired it, which recommended that both of the front tyres and brake pads needed 
replacing. The independent inspection also said both front brake discs were excessively 
corroded and needed renewing. The independent inspection didnt make a recommendation 
about the wing mirror.
I now need to consider whether these faults make the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
At the time the inspection was carried out, Mr H had only travelled around 33 miles in the 
car. The total mileage was around 19,713. So having considered that the car was around 
four years old, it cost around £4,000 and the faults occurred with minimal use from Mr H, I 
dont think a reasonable person would expect the car to become faulty so soon. 
In light of this, Im satisfied that the car Mr H was supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Black Horse doesnt dispute that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, as it accepted this in 
its determination of Mr Hs complaint. So Ive gone on to think about whether Black Horse 
has done enough to put things right.
Mr H had the car independently repaired in October 2021. So Black Horse agreed to pay   
Mr H the cost of these repairs. I think this was fair and reasonable for it to do this.
Black Horse also reimbursed Mr H with two monthly payments to reflect the 62 days he says 
he was unable to drive the car. And it recognised that Mr H had likely suffered some loss of 
enjoyment before he had the car repaired, in the period he was able to use it. So it offered to 
pay him around half of one of his monthly payments to reflect any loss of enjoyment Mr H 
suffered. Having thought about this carefully, Im satisfied Black Horses offer to reimburse 
Mr H for two months payments in addition to half of one monthly payment is a fair amount for 
him being unable to use the car and any loss of enjoyment.
Ive also considered whether any distress or inconvenience was caused to Mr H as a result 
of the car being of unsatisfactory quality or by the actions of Black Horse. Mr H says 
because the car was faulty, he was unable to travel to see his mother for a holiday and he 
was unable to go to weekly personal commitments to assist with his health  which Im sorry 
to hear about. He also said that he had to borrow his wifes car to get to work, which caused 
her inconvenience.
Ive seen a copy of some correspondence that Mr H has provided in which he is attempting 
to arrange a holiday to visit his mother. Im satisfied Mr H was intending on visiting his 
mother and that he didnt visit his mother because of the faults with the car. I accept this 
caused Mr H some distress and inconvenience, as I can see he was disappointed when he 
was unable to visit his mother. 
However, Mr H has provided no supporting information to confirm he was unable to attend 
any pre-arranged personal commitments and he hasnt demonstrated the impact to his 
health as a result of not being able to attend these commitments. Mr H has also mentioned 
the impact to his wife whilst he made use of her car. However I can only consider any 
distress and inconvenience caused to him. I cant consider the impact to his wife, as she isnt 
the customer of Black Horse. Overall, having thought about this carefully, I think the £150 offered by Black Horse to Mr H 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to him is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I accept Mr H was caused some distress and inconvenience as a result of 
the car being of unsatisfactory quality. But I think Black Horses overall offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And so, it follows that Black Horse dont need to do 
anything further to put things right.
My final decision
Black Horse Limited has already paid Mr H a total of £832.40 to settle the complaint. I think 
this is fair in all the circumstances. So I dont think Black Horse Limited needs to do anything 
further to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman