DRN-1899593
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly settled a claim against his 
motor insurance policy and charged him an extra premium. 
What happened
Mr B was informed by Admiral in December 2018 that an extra premium was to be taken 
from his account as a pedestrian had made a claim on the policy. He said Mr B had injured 
him by driving into him on a pedestrian crossing in September 2018. 
Mr B recalled an incident in which a pedestrian on a crossing had stopped in front of his 
stationary car, shouted abuse and hit the wing mirror hard with his hand. He said he didnt 
report it to Admiral as his car had made no contact with the pedestrian and there was no 
damage to his car. Admiral said had Mr B reported the event before or at renewal his 
premium would have risen then.  
Mr B said the pedestrian had made a false claim, but Admiral said it had investigated the 
incident and had taken account of a statement made by an independent witness. As it didnt 
think it could defend the pedestrians version of events in court, it settled his claim.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint.  He thought Mr B should have reported 
the incident to Admiral. He said that under the policy it had the right to settle any claim as it 
saw fit. He pointed out that the witness said Mr B was at fault and that there was no other 
independent evidence to show what had happened. He didnt think it was wrong for Admiral 
to increase Mr Bs premium given the claim made on the policy.
 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the policy Admiral has the right to settle all claims as it sees fit. We only interfere with 
an insurers right to do that if we think it has acted unreasonably. In this case, I can see why 
Mr B told Admiral that the claim wasnt genuine. But when a claim is disputed, Admiral has to 
consider what can be proved, as the party making the claim may start court action, which 
Admiral would have to be able to defend successfully. Insurers dont take costly legal action 
unless there seem to be good prospects of success. We think thats a reasonable approach. 
 
The file notes show that Admiral initially disputed liability with the pedestrians solicitors. It 
noted the account that Mr B had given the police when they contacted him about the incident 
in September 2018. It checked for CCTV coverage of the incident, but there was none in that 
area. It also considered the account of events provided by the independent witness. And in 
July 2019 it received medical evidence about the pedestrians injuries.
I dont think the fact that the police took no action is relevant to Admirals decision in this 
case. It seems they didnt think there was enough evidence to prosecute Mr B, but the 
burden of proof is higher in a criminal case than in a civil one. So it doesnt mean that the 
pedestrian wouldnt have won his case, especially with an independent witness on his side. 
Admiral hasnt said it thinks Mr Bs account of events isnt correct. But the independent 
witness didnt describe the situation Mr B recalled. Mr B said hed stopped his car in good 
time, to allow the pedestrian to cross safely. He said the pedestrian started to abuse him and 
struck his car for no reason. But the witness said the pedestrian was most of the way across 
the crossing when Mr Bs car approached it quite fast and had to stop suddenly. He wasnt 
sure whether the car touched the pedestrian, but he said he jumped out of the way and 
remonstrated with Mr M, who drove away from the scene fast. 
I can see why Admiral thought it would be hard to defend the claim in court. There was no 
independent evidence to support Mr Bs account, so even if there were discrepancies in the 
witnesss account, its still likely to have carried some weight. Admiral established that there 
was no damage to Mr Ms car. But there wouldnt necessarily have been any from a minor 
impact, either if the car touched the pedestrian, or from the pedestrian striking the car. 
As Mr B didnt think there had been an accident, a loss or a claim, I think its quite 
understandable that he didnt report anything to Admiral initially. But when the police 
contacted him with a notice of intended prosecution, I think that showed the pedestrian was 
likely to make a claim. So I think he should have done so after that. 
Had Admiral known about the claim before the policy was renewed, it would have increased 
the premium then. Thats standard industry practice, and the premium is adjusted later if the 
claim on the policy isnt successful. The increase in premium here was substantial, but 
Admiral has provided underwriting evidence to us that shows it was correct. The details cant 
be shared with Mr B as theyre commercially sensitive. 
I understand Mr Bs frustration with the situation, because if his version of events is correct, 
then the pedestrian has been successful in making a false claim. But Admiral wouldnt have 
settled it unless it thought there was no viable alternative. I think it has demonstrated why it 
decided it couldnt defend the claim here, and therefore had no option but to settle it. So 
taking everything into account, I dont think Mr B has been able to show that Admiral acted 
unreasonably, and I cant uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
12 March 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman