DRN-4203531
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs T complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC caused problems in switching the 
interest rate on their buy to let mortgage.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs T have a buy to let mortgage with Barclays. In July 2022 they applied online 
for a new fixed rate, signing and returning the acceptance form. The new rate was due to 
start on the expiry of their old one.
Mr P and Mrs T didnt receive any response from Barclays and the rate wasnt implemented. 
As a result, the monthly payments on their mortgage went up  and because there was a 
limit on their direct debit, the amount collected was no longer enough to pay the monthly 
payments. The mortgage fell into arrears which were recorded on their credit files.
Mr P and Mrs T complained. Barclays located the application and agreed it had failed to 
implement the new rate in error. It said it would apply the rate to their mortgage and offered 
£300 compensation.
However, the rate still wasnt implemented correctly and later in December Mr P and Mrs T 
received a letter telling them that their mortgage was in arrears. Barclays accepted it still 
hadnt resolved matters correctly. It implemented the interest rate, backdated to 3 August 
2022, and said it would refund the additional payments Mr P and Mrs T had made at the 
higher interest rate they shouldnt have been charged. And it would remove the record of the 
arrears from their credit files.
Mr P and Mrs T werent happy with that and brought their complaint to us. They didnt think 
£300 compensation was enough. They said they had found the arrears letters upsetting. And 
their credit files still hadnt been corrected. They said this error had prevented them applying 
for another re-mortgage. And the rate switch still hadnt been implemented, but they couldnt 
get any resolution from Barclays.
When the complaint came to us, Barclays explained that there had been delays in 
implementing the rate. But the arrears on Mr P and Mrs Ts credit files were also related to 
the issue of the limited direct debit no longer being enough to cover the monthly payments. It 
said it had now resolved both their issues and ensured the account was up to date.
Our investigator thought that was a fair resolution, but that Barclays should increase the 
compensation to £500 to reflect the upset caused to Mr P and Mrs T. Barclays accepted 
that, but Mr P and Mrs T didnt. They said it had taken months to clear their credit files, which 
had affected their ability to take out other finance. They said they would have to disclose a 
refused application in future, which would impact their ability to take out further mortgages. 
And they said the whole situation had caused them a great deal of upset and inconvenience 
and had a particular impact on Mrs Ts health.
As no agreement could be reached, the case comes to me for a final decision on whats the 
fair way to put things right in this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What happened with Mr P and Mrs Ts mortgage is very unfortunate. Barclays accepts it 
made mistakes, so the primary thing for me to decide is what it now needs to do to put 
matters right.
There are in fact two separate issues here  though both combined to cause the problems 
Mr P and Mrs T experienced. 
This is a buy to let mortgage on interest only terms, which means that Mr P and Mrs T are 
only required to repay the interest each month. Theres no payment towards the capital, and 
the overall balance doesnt reduce over time.
However, in around 2020, Mr P and Mrs T decided to make regular overpayments to reduce 
the capital as well as pay the interest. There are two ways of doing that  either they can 
manually make payments themselves, or they can agree with their lender to collect an 
additional amount each month.
They chose the latter, and so Barclays changed their direct debit from a variable one which 
would collect the contractual monthly payment each month (changing when the payment 
changed) to a fixed direct debit collecting the then monthly payment plus the amount Mr P 
and Mrs T wanted to overpay.
This meant that when their interest rate changed in 2022, the direct debit  even allowing for 
the overpayments  was no longer enough to cover the monthly payments.
That would still have been the case even if the interest rate change had been implemented 
properly; the fixed direct debit still wouldnt have been enough. And so Mr P and Mrs T 
would need to agree a replacement direct debit with Barclays separate to taking their new 
rate.
The second issue was the failure to implement the new rate. That seems to have been 
because the acceptance form Mr P and Mrs T sent back wasnt processed and so the 
required changes werent made to their account. The reason for that isnt clear. It might have 
been lost in the post and never received by Barclays; it might have been received but lost 
internally; or it might not have been processed properly. I dont need to decide that, because 
Barclays accepts it should have made sure the application was processed in time and that 
the rate was implemented when it should have been. 
The failure to implement the new interest rate compounded the direct debit problem  since 
in the absence of the new rate, Mr P and Mrs Ts mortgage reverted to a higher interest rate 
with higher monthly payments, and therefore the shortfall on the direct debit was even more 
than it would have been with the rate in place.
Initially, when Barclays agreed to backdate the rate to August and rework the mortgage, that 
didnt resolve all the problems. Even with the new rate in place, Mr P and Mrs T still hadnt 
paid enough to cover what they should have paid from August onwards.
However, following our involvement, Barclays recognised the direct debit issue too. It agreed 
that it ought to have contacted Mr P and Mrs T sooner to amend the direct debit to allow it to 
collect the full new monthly payment.Putting things right
Barclays therefore agreed to write off the additional amount Mr P and Mrs T hadnt paid, 
ensuring that their account was up to date. I think that was fair. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service has a longstanding approach to situations like this  which we call underfunding, and 
which is set out on our website. In short, where a mortgage is underpaid because of a 
lenders mistake and but for the mistake the customers would have paid the correct amount, 
it wouldnt be fair to expect the customers to make up the shortfall that results.
Barclays has now done this. This meant that Mr P and Mrs Ts mortgage balance was 
reduced to what it would have been had these errors not occurred. Barclays has written off 
around £570 that Mr P and Mrs T would have had to pay had their direct debit been 
amended sooner.
I think its fair to take that amount into account in thinking about the amount of compensation 
Barclays should pay Mr P and Mrs T for the distress and inconvenience caused. Im sorry to 
hear about Mrs Ts health condition. Im sure this was a very worrying and upsetting 
experience for both of them, and that was compounded by the impact on Mrs Ts health of 
the additional stress  as well as the time and inconvenience theyve spent in trying to put 
matters right. 
Ive thought about the sort of awards the Financial Ombudsman Service makes in cases like 
this. Examples of our awards can be found on our website. Taking into account the amount 
Barclays has written off that Mr P and Mrs T now wont have to pay, Im satisfied its revised 
offer of £500 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Barclays should also make amendments to Mr P and Mrs Ts credit files. It finally resolved all 
the issues in April 2023, and it usually takes a few weeks for credit file reports to be updated. 
So its disappointing to see that their credit files were still showing missed payments in July. 
If it hasnt removed the adverse entries yet, Barclays should ensure this happens now. To be 
clear, Barclays isnt responsible for the credit score a credit reference agency quotes; thats 
the agencys own calculation based on the entries on a credit record. What Barclays needs 
to do is ensure that the specific records of payments to this mortgage show that what should 
have happened  that Mr P and Mrs T made their payments in full and their mortgage was 
up to date throughout this period. Barclays has re-worked their account on this basis, and 
their credit files should say the same. 
Mr P and Mrs T have also said that the impact of Barclays mistakes led them to lose out on 
a remortgage application, including releasing some equity. I havent seen evidence of that 
application. The only rejected application Ive seen is this one, when it was belatedly 
received and considered in November, and rejected because of the missed payments. And 
that wasnt an application for a new mortgage, but for a rate switch. 
However, if there was another refused application, and Mr P and Mrs T are obliged to 
declare it in future credit applications, they can explain the circumstances that led to the 
refusal  including, if necessary, showing the lender a copy of this decision  to show the 
wider circumstances in which it was considered. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Remove all adverse entries related to the direct debit and rate switch issues from 
Mr P and Mrs Ts credit files; andPay Mr P and Mrs T £500 compensation  to include the £300 previously offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman