DRN-3436173
The complaint
The estate of Mr C1 complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed in its duty of care to 
protect Mr C1 when it processed a number of gambling transactions on his behalf. Mr C1s 
estate is represented by his son, Mr C2.
What happened
The facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont intend to go into too much 
detail here. However, it may be helpful to summarise the background briefly:
What Mr C2 (on behalf of Mr C1s estate) has said
In August 2019, Mr C2 became concerned about some large payments that had left his 
fathers account in the days prior to his death. The transactions were made using a 
gambling website and amounted to over £100,000  with one single transaction alone 
amounting to £50,000. All of the transactions took place within a 12-hour period. 
Mr C2 said that gambling such large amounts was unusual for his father and he now 
believes that the transactions were likely carried out whilst his father was in a confused 
state due to an undiagnosed illness which, I am very sorry to say, led to his death the next 
day. 
Mr C2 said the transactions were unusual and out of character when compared to the 
usual activity on his fathers account and so he thinks they should have been flagged as 
suspicious by Barclays and Mr C1 contacted at the time. Mr C2 says that had Barclays 
contacted Mr C1 when he was in the process of making these transactions, the 
transactions could have been stopped. Mr C2 has pointed out that a daily payment limit of 
£50,000 applies to transfers between individuals and he believes that had the same 
transaction limit been applied to card payments too, Mr C1s loss couldve been 
significantly reduced.
Mr C2 has also provided testimony from a medical practitioner who has confirmed that Mr 
C1 may have had a condition known as an acute confusional state which can cause those 
suffering from it to act out of character and become confused. Mr C1s estate believe that 
Mr C1 was clearly vulnerable at the time he was making these transactions and the 
unusual nature of the transactions was an indicator of this. As such, they believe Barclays 
failed in its obligations to protect C1 from financial harm. 
What Barclays has said
Barclays acknowledged that Mr C1s estate felt the transactions to be unusual for the 
account. However, it pointed out that there was no evidence, other than the transactions 
themselves, that supported Mr C1 was in a confused state or that his mental capacity was 
impeded at the time the transactions were authorised. Barclays pointed out that even if he 
had been, Barclays wouldnt have been aware of this at the time and so they wouldnt have 
been able to put safeguarding measures in place for him.
Barclays said that the transactions that left Mr C1s account were made to a legitimate and 
well-known gambling website, and so on the face of it, there wouldnt have been anything to 
put them on notice that something might be amiss. The transactions were being authorised 
using the card attached to the account and were being made to a legitimate merchant. 
Barclays pointed out that the transaction monitoring systems it has in place are designed to 
identify potentially fraudulent transactions but, for the reasons set out above, the 
transactions now in question here wouldnt have appeared as potentially fraudulent and 
would not have triggered its internal systems.
Barclays went on to state that the £50,000 daily limit that Mr C2 referred to only applied to 
transfers between individuals and not to online card payments and so it believed it wasnt 
relevant to Mr C1s circumstances.  
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr C2 brought the complaint to this service and asked 
us to review it. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and upheld it. However, whilst he had 
significant sympathy for Mr C1s estate and felt there were some significant failings on behalf 
of Barclays, he didnt recommend any redress be paid. Whilst he agreed that Barclays 
shouldve contacted Mr C1 about the transactions at the time, he didnt think it was more 
likely than not that any such contact wouldve prevented the transactions from taking place. 
There was no contemporaneous evidence that Mr C1 was in a confused state at the time 
and he had authorised the transactions himself online. And so, our investigator didnt think it 
would be fair to now say that Barclays couldve likely prevented the transactions and so 
should be liable for them now.   
Mr C1s estate disagreed. They said that the transactions that left the account amounted to 
nearly £130,000. They were unusual for the account and this should have prompted some 
action from Barclays. The estate put forward that had Mr C1 been contacted, it was most 
likely that any conversation wouldve interrupted Mr C1s thought processes and his 
spending. They also said that Mr C1 mightve asked Barclays for help to prevent further 
transactions. Finally, Mr C1s estate submitted that it would seem appropriate to award some 
form of compensation for the serious failings by Barclays and this would help draw a line 
under the matter and help the family move on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach the same outcome as our investigator - for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
The daily usage limits
There is no dispute that Mr C1 input his debit card details into the gambling website in 
order to make the transactions now in question here. In doing so, he provided Barclays with 
the authority to debit his account with the amounts specified. There is no daily usage limit 
attached to this type of transaction. And so, whilst I acknowledge Mr C2s arguments that a 
limit of £50,000 is applied to transfers between individuals via online banking and the 
distinction between the two payment methods is arbitrary, the fact remains that this 
distinction was in place at the time and no such limits applied. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to now ask Barclays to adhere to a limit that wasnt in place at the time and ask them to 
refund any amounts over and above this limit now. 
Barclays has an obligation to process transactions at its customers request and by entering 
his card details into the gambling website, Mr C1 had requested that these payments be 
made and had in turn provided Barclays with authorisation to debit the amounts from his 
account. And so, Im not persuaded that the daily usage limits applicable to other types of 
transaction are material to the outcome of this complaint. The key point here is whether the 
transactions should have appeared as suspicious enough to warrant further intervention by 
Barclays and whether this would have ultimately made a difference. I will address this point 
in more detail below. 
Processing the transactions
Banks, such as Barclays, are required to have systems in place to look out for out of 
character or unusual transactions, or other signs that might indicate that its customers 
might be at risk of financial harm from fraud. My understanding is that the crux of Mr C2s 
argument is that the large amounts of money leaving his fathers account were unusual 
and out of character when compared to his usual spending activity, and because of this, 
the payments should have triggered Barclays fraud monitoring systems and prompted 
further action from them. However, I dont necessarily agree. 
As our investigator set out, Barclays fraud monitoring systems are designed to identify 
potentially fraudulent transactions. They are programmed to identify certain characteristics in 
order to try and predict when a customer may be at risk of harm from fraud or about to fall 
victim to a scam. They are not there to pick up on, and then to prevent, a customer making 
payments that may not objectively appear sensible or in the customers best interests  such 
as large gambling transactions which may not seem advisable to a third-party looking in. 
Mr C1s bank statements show that he had been gambling large amounts of money in the 
days leading up to the dates now in question  starting on 2 August 2019. And the 
payments were being made to a genuine, well-established, company. And so, I wouldnt 
have expected Barclays fraud prevention systems to have flagged the transactions as 
suspicious. The transactions werent suggestive of fraud or a scam and were being paid to 
a well-known merchant.
However, I do agree with our investigator that, even with having said the above, banks are 
expected to be on the lookout for clear changes in their customers banking activity. Mr C1s 
account had been active with Barclays since 2016 and in the three years leading up to 
August 2019, it doesnt appear that Mr C1 had been a regular gambler nor did he make 
frequent large payments. However, by 19 August 2019, Mr C1 had gambled £9,000 in a 
single day and this was unusual banking behaviour for him. And so I do agree that 
Barclays shouldve identified this and contacted Mr C1 to discuss the activity on his 
account. However, I dont think it necessarily follows that this would have led to the 
transactions being prevented. Ill explain why.
Firstly, its important that I stress here that it is impossible for me to say exactly how this 
conversation would have unfolded and so I must base my decision on what I think is most 
likely to have happened had Barclays intervened further. And Ive done this by considering 
the usual types of questions I wouldve expected Barclays to ask had they contacted Mr C1 
at the time and what I know about his circumstances. 
I acknowledge Mr C2s argument that any intervention by Barclays may have interrupted Mr 
C1s thought processes and I acknowledge that this is a possibility, but Im not satisfied this is the most likely scenario. Mr C1 had logged on to the gambling website and requested that 
these payments be made, and Ive not seen any evidence that would allow me to determine 
whether intervention from Barclays wouldve stopped him from continuing to do so. Instead, 
it seems most likely that Barclays wouldve confirmed that they were speaking with Mr C1 
and enquired whether he was authorising the transactions. Having requested the payments 
online, it seems likely that Mr C1 wouldve confirmed the above. As I said previously, Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest Mr C1 wasnt authorising the transactions for the purposes of 
gambling.  And having confirmed that the transactions had been requested by Mr C1, there 
would have been no reason for Barclays to have declined to process the payments on his 
behalf  they were going to a legitimate merchant and werent being made as a result of 
fraud.
And so in summary, and based on the particular circumstances of this case, Im satisfied the 
activity on Mr C1s account in August 2019 shouldve prompted some contact from Barclays.  
But there is no evidence to suggest what wouldve happened had contact been made and 
Im satisfied that the most likely scenario is that Mr C1 wouldve confirmed he had authorised 
the transactions. And so I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to offer Mr C1s estate a 
refund now. 
Finally, I want to say how sorry I am to hear of Mr C1s passing. My sincerest condolences to 
his family. I understand that this must have been a difficult time and I am sorry that my 
decision will likely be disappointing. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr 
C1 to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman