DRN-3603777
The complaint
Mrs C has complained Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt fairly or reasonably deal with her 
claims under The Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mrs C is represented by a third party. I will refer to only her throughout for ease.
What happened
Mrs C and her husband first bought points from the supplier in question (D) in September 
1999. And for a four-year period after that they regularly bought further points from D. These 
points were generally used fully with only two years, 2010 and 2015, when this didnt 
happen. Even in those years Mr and Mrs C used most of their points.
Mrs C then bought an additional 10,000 timeshare points from D in October 2017 for 
£14,600. She financed this purchase by taking out a fixed-sum loan agreement from 
Shawbrook for £14,600.
Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances had changed by 2017 and they were living separately. Theyd 
split their 50,000 points between themselves. Mr C hadnt used all of his points in 2017 
whilst Mrs C used her half and some of Mr Cs as well.
If Mr and Mrs C were going to remain apart, Mrs C may have felt she would need more 
points for the holidays she wanted to take. More points would allow her to stay in larger 
apartments.
By January 2018 Mrs C had settled this loan agreement in full.
In October 2020 Mrs C submitted claims under sections 75 and 140a of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 that the sale had been misrepresented and that she was subject to an unfair 
relationship. Shawbrook didnt respond within a reasonable time period so Mrs C brought her 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
She remained dissatisfied with Shawbrooks response of May 2021 rejecting her claims. Our 
investigator reviewed the evidence provided by both Mrs C and Shawbrook. She didnt think 
D had treated Mrs C unfairly or misrepresented the sale to her.
Mrs C remains unhappy and has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
I also take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and 
codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 means that, in certain circumstances, if Mrs C 
paid for goods or services using certain types of credit (even in part), and there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of those goods or services, the 
creditor can also be held responsible. There are other conditions which need to be met but 
nothing specific which applies in Mrs Cs case.
Section 140a of the same legislation allows a court to determine whether an unfair 
relationship exists between the creditor and the debtor because of any of the terms of the 
related credit agreement; the way the creditor has enforced their rights under the agreement; 
or any other thing done by (or on behalf of) the creditor before or after the making of the 
credit agreement. 
Mrs C paid for her timeshare points with D using a fixed-sum credit agreement with 
Shawbrook. It's worth clarifying Im not deciding Shawbrooks liability under sections 75 and 
140a of the Consumer Credit Act. As confirmed above we certainly consider the relevant law 
and that includes relevant sections of appropriate legislation. But we decide cases by 
considering what is fair and reasonable as statute requires us to do. What Im deciding is 
whether Shawbrook did enough in considering Mrs Cs complaint. And if they didnt, what 
else should they now do.
Was Mrs C subject to an unfair relationship with Shawbrook?
The main aspect of Mrs Cs claim is that she was treated unfairly under section 140a of the 
Consumer Credit Act. Shes told us she felt the sale was conducted in a high-pressure 
environment and she wasnt informed of her rights to cancel the transaction. 
Its certainly true that in any financial relationship between a debtor (Mrs C in this case) and 
creditor (Shawbrook), the creditor holds a generally dominant position. However that in itself 
doesnt make the relationship between the two parties unfair.
In Mrs Cs case, I have reviewed the contractual terms and whether the actions of the 
business would lead a court to believe the relationship was unfair. I dont believe this to be 
the case here.
I note from her history buying timeshare points that she had regularly attended Ds sales 
presentations and would have been fully aware of the tactics used within them, including the 
provision of free food and drinks. Shawbrooks evidence, however, confirms the session 
Mrs C attended lasted for two and a half hours. I dont consider this session to have been 
over-lengthy. Theres also no suggestion that Mrs C couldnt have left if she had wished to.
The evidence provided to us shows Mrs C was fully informed of her rights to cancel and 
provided with the detail she needed to make a properly considered decision. Specifically she 
signed the one-page confirming her withdrawal rights so Im satisfied the evidence shows 
there was no unfair relationship.
Ive also considered the use Mrs C made of the points she bought. In 2018 and 2019 these 
were used in full. Ive noted Mrs Cs evidence that she used some of these for dining and 
local travel. I can see this wasnt the case in 2020. Mrs Cs partner became unwell in 2019 
and she was unable to use her points on holidays much further. Its also the case that 
periods of national lockdown would have affected Mrs Cs ability to take holidays. I absolutely understand that Mrs Cs personal circumstances changed and that impacted her 
ability to use the timeshare points shed accumulated.
But its worth re-stating that Mrs C repaid her loan agreement in full by early 2018. These 
later circumstances arent relevant to any assessment of Mrs Cs claim under section 140a.
Overall I believe Shawbrook acted fairly in rejecting Mrs Cs claim under section 140a.
Was the sale misrepresented to Mrs C?
Mrs C attended a sales briefing with D in October 2017. Whilst there she bought a further 
10,000 points. She was told these additional points would be suitable for her.
I note other points of concern were raised about the sale. Im not required to go through 
every aspect of Mrs Cs complaint in detail. However I can reassure her Ive considered all 
the points that have been raised. However I have concentrated on the main aspects which 
impact the decision I am making. Its worth stating that Mrs C hasnt provided any detail 
about what happened during the sale which has been backed up by other evidence.
I know Mrs Cs partner died recently. This must have been very distressing. I completely 
understand why, during his illness, she felt she had no option but to relinquish her timeshare 
points with D. I considered whether Mrs C was led to believe it would be easier to dispose of 
her points. But I dont believe from any evidence Mrs C has presented that was ever the 
case. Specifically she was using her points in 2018 and 2019 for short breaks, food and trips 
as she didnt want to lose the benefit they gave her. This suggests to me she was always 
keen to maximise her use of her points as she understood that if she didnt use them, she 
lost them.
Overall Im satisfied theres no evidence D misrepresented the sale of 10,000 points to 
Mrs C. Therefore I cant say this played an important role in Mrs C deciding to purchase the 
points. I dont believe Shawbrook acted unfairly in rejecting Mrs Cs section 75 claim.
Having considered all the evidence presented to our service, I wont be asking Shawbrook to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint against 
Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman