DRN-3289988
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about an insurance policy he bought to protect a laptop and which is 
provided by London General Insurance Company Limited. He has said that he wasnt aware 
of the existence of this policy and so couldnt make a claim when the lead for the laptop 
broke. As such, Mr S wants the premium refunded.
What happened
Mr S bought a laptop through a large retailer in February 2019. A two-year warranty was 
provided by the retailer for the item in the event it was faulty, e.g. there was a mechanical 
breakdown. Mr S chose to pay for an additional insurance policy, which covered the laptop 
for accidental damage for two years. This would have been an added extra that he would 
have needed to select and for which he paid an additional £70. London General provided the 
insurance policy.
London General was informed about the purchase by the retailer and it set up a policy in 
Mr S name. The policy covered the laptop for two years from 14 February 2019. On 
25 February 2019 London General emailed Mr S with the documentation associated with his 
policy. This included a key facts document, the policy schedule and the terms and 
conditions. How to make a claim was explained in these documents. London General has 
confirmed the email address it used for this correspondence, and it matches the email 
address Mr S gave to this service.
Mr S has reported that the power lead for the laptop became damaged in January 2021. He 
made a temporary repair to it and in April 2021 approached the manufacturer to buy a 
replacement. The manufacturer suggested that Mr S might want to approach the retailer to 
see if the damage would be covered by any warranty that existed. 
The retailer confirmed that the damage wouldnt be covered by the warranty, but might be 
covered by the insurance policy. It identified the details of the insurance policy and referred 
Mr S to London General. London General confirmed that a policy existed and that the claim 
had been made after the cover had ended. Mr S told London General that he hadnt received 
the policy documentation and asked it provide copies of what had been sent to him. It was 
unable to do so, as it only retains documentation for a year. Mr S also said he had no 
knowledge of the policy having existed and asked that the premium be refunded. London 
General declined that request and Mr S complained.
London General responded to the complaint and said that it was satisfied that Mr S would 
have been aware that he took out the insurance policy in 2019. This was because he paid 
£70 more at the time of purchase than the laptop cost. In addition, it had emailed him with 
the policy documentation on 25 February 2019. As such, it didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the response from London General and referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She was 
satisfied that the policy documentation had been sent to Mr S, using a correct email address, 
in February 2019. Between the additional payment he made when the laptop was bought 
and the policy documentation that was sent to him, the investigator was satisfied Mr S 
should have been aware of the existence of the policy. She didnt consider London General 
had done anything wrong and so didnt consider it should refund the policy premium.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He acknowledged that he would have 
purchased the insurance policy when he bought the laptop. He said he didnt have a problem 
with the existence of the policy, but rather that he wasnt provided with the relevant 
documentation. He set out what he recalled being told by London General at various points 
in relation to the policy documentation and said that he considered this showed a pattern of 
false, inconsistent and unsubstantiated statements and claims that are inaccurate and lack 
diligence. He went on to question again that the documentation had been sent to him and 
highlighted that London General would have his correct email address because he had 
exchanged emails with it in 2021 and implied that it had lied to this service. He said that he 
considered the only way it could prove that it hadnt, was to provide copies of the 
documentation it claimed to have sent him in 2019. Mr S also considered that London 
Generals retention policy was unacceptable and that it should keep correspondence for at 
least the term of the policy.
Our investigator considered Mr S further comments, but she wasnt persuaded to change 
her opinion on the complaint. She remained satisfied that the documentation had been sent 
to Mr S and that the fact he had paid for the policy would have made him aware that it 
existed. Mr S remained dissatisfied and, as agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided 
the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
Subsequently, at Mr S request he was sent a copy of a screenshot from London Generals 
records, showing that it had issued the policy documentation to him. Mr S didnt make any 
further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has said that he accepts he applied for the policy, as he has done with other electrical 
equipment, but he doesnt remember doing so and he didnt receive the policy 
documentation. This lack of documentation meant that he was unable to make a claim when 
damage occurred.
I would firstly say that I think it likely that he knew he was taking out the policy at the time of 
the sale. I say this as he would have needed to select to do so and he paid £70 for the 
policy. I think reasonably he would have questioned why he was paying an extra £70 had he 
not asked for it. Mr S has also acknowledged that asking for the policy is something that he 
would have done. 
I have examined the evidence in this case and, while I know that Mr S wont agree with me, I 
am satisfied that London General sent him the policy documentation in February 2019. While 
Mr S may not have recognised the importance of the email or it may not have reached his 
inbox, such as being categorised as spam, that doesnt alter the fact that London General 
did what it needed to do. I would also comment that having the documentation would have 
meant claiming would have been easier, its lack wouldnt have stopped Mr S making a claim.
I note that Mr S has raised concerns that London General wasnt able to provide him with a 
copy of the documents he was sent. He considers that it should have kept those documents 
for at least the term of the policy. The industry regulator does require an insurer to retain 
records of policies for a certain period, but that doesnt mean that the insurer needs to keep 
copies of actual documents for that period. I would also comment that even if London General had kept copies of the policy documentation Mr S had been sent for the term of the 
policy, it would still have been unable to provide him with copies of them as he didnt contact 
it until after the policy had expired.
As Mr S chose to take out the policy and he was sent the policy documents, I dont consider 
that it would be reasonable for the policy premium to be refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
7 April 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman