DRN-3642197
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to carry out a review on her whole of 
life policy which meant she had been paying for a policy she no longer needed. 
What happened
Mrs C took out a TSB Options Plan in November 1996. The plan was a whole-of-life policy 
providing cover for death, serious illness and disability. At the outset the premium was 
£40.26 per month, subject to contractual reviews. 
The plan was reviewed in November 2001, November 2006, and March 2012 in line with 
what was expected. But Scottish Widows failed to carry out the next scheduled review which 
was due in November 2016. Mrs C has said if the review had taken place, she wouldve 
cancelled the policy as she no longer needed it, Mrs C complained about this.  
Scottish Widows upheld Mrs Cs complaint in part, it accepted that in November 2016 it 
should have reviewed Mrs Cs policy, as a result, Mrs C paid the same premiums until she 
cancelled it in August 2020. 
It paid £150 compensation for the upset and inconvenience its error had caused and a 
further £100 for not responding to Mrs Cs complaint sooner, bringing the total compensation 
to £250. But it didnt think it should refund Mrs C the premiums paid since November 2016 
as the policy still provided cover and wouldve paid out had a claim been made.
Mrs C remained unhappy and so referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into it but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, he said although 
Scottish Widows failed to carry out the review, the policy continued to provide cover. He said 
the compensation Scottish Widows had already paid was fair and reasonable. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Scottish Widows has accepted the error it made in failing to carry out a review of Mrs Cs 
policy in November 2016. So, what I must now consider is whether or not the actions it has 
taken to put things right is fair and reasonable.
In looking at the compensation Scottish Widows has paid for its mistake; I believe it has 
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. Our approach with cases where a business 
may have missed a policy review is to ask a business what the results of the review would 
have been, if it had been carried out correctly. Where a failed review would have required 
the consumer to increase the premiums or reduce the sum assured, we will consider what 
the consumer would have been likely to do, on the balance of probabilities. I understand 
Mrs C has said if the review had taken place in 2016, she would have cancelled the policy. 
I accept that Mrs Cs personal circumstances may have changed in 2016 which wouldve 
meant she no longer needed the policy. But I dont think Mrs C was unable to cancel her 
policy as a result of the missed review. I say this because, Mrs C did eventually cancel her 
policy in August 2020, but this wasnt following a review. Mrs C has said this is when she 
had a chance to review her paperwork. Whilst I dont dispute this, I cant hold Scottish 
Widows responsible for Mrs C not looking at her paperwork earlier. Ultimately, the 
responsibility of managing her financial affairs sits with Mrs C.  
So, it follows that Im not satisfied that Mrs C needed a review in order to know she was able 
to cancel her policy if she felt she no longer needed it. 
Further, Scottish Widows has said Mrs C had greater cover than what she was paying for. 
Although a policy review didnt take place when it should have, the policy continued to 
provide cover and if Mrs C had made a successful claim, she would have received the 
benefits provided. 
I recognise Mrs C has been caused some frustration and upset by Scottish Widows error 
and approach, but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to require it to pay 
her additional compensation. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman