DRN-1863244
 
The complaint 
Mr P has complained that when he made an overpayment towards his loan, the 
interest rebate was applied to the loan account to reduce the loan balance and was 
not paid into his bank account. Mr P says Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc misled him and 
that this has caused him stress and put him in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr P contacted Bank of Ireland in order to reduce the amount of interest he was 
paying under his loan. Bank of Ireland spoke with Mr P on a number of occasions, 
setting out various options, including partial early settlement and full early settlement, 
and what these options would mean in terms of the amount of interest rebate that 
would be due.
Mr P decided to pay £4000 towards the loan account, and did so over the phone. 
Once he had paid this he realised that the interest rebate wouldnt be paid directly to 
him, but would be applied to the loan account, reducing the amount of interest 
payable under the loan.
Mr P immediately explained to the adviser that hed been told the interest rebate 
would be paid to him directly. He said if he wasnt going to receive that money he 
would be in financial difficulty and was relying on the rebate to make the remaining 
monthly payments under the loan. The adviser tried to get the payment back but was 
unable to do so. Mr P complained to Bank of Ireland.
Bank of Ireland said it thought it had made clear to Mr P that the interest rebate 
wouldnt be paid to him directly. It said it would offer Mr P a one month payment break 
without any fees or charges to help him with his period of financial difficulty and 
offered him £125 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr P said that £125 was not sufficient compensation for the trouble and upset he 
experienced as a result of Bank of Irelands errors, and brought his complaint to this 
service. He said that because the one month payment holiday resulted in his direct 
debit being cancelled, he missed his next two payments under the loan, which had an 
adverse impact on his credit file. Mr P also complained that Bank of Ireland had not 
phoned him as promised, as part of its responsible lender procedure.
Our investigator considered the complaint and told Bank of Ireland she thought it 
should be upheld. She asked Bank of Ireland to pay Mr P back the £4000, deducting 
only the monthly payments he shouldve made so that the account would be up to 
date. She also asked it to remove the negative markers on Mr Ps credit file and 
reinstate the original loan term and payment amounts. She didnt ask Bank of Ireland 
to increase the compensation it offered to Mr P for trouble and upset, as she thought 
£125 was fair in the circumstances.
Both Mr P and Bank of Ireland disagreed with the investigators opinion. Mr P thought 
the £125 offered was insufficient and said the stress the situation had caused him 
was significant. He said he couldnt afford a mini break away to help with the stress of 
work and that hed been forced to take time off and had therefore incurred a loss of 
earnings. He also said he had to take out an overdraft for the first time in his life due 
to the financial difficulty Bank of Ireland had caused.
Bank of Ireland said that it thought the one month breathing space and the £125 
offered was fair. It also said Mr P mentioned he would be able to borrow money from 
family members, so it wasnt aware of the level of financial difficulty Mr P has been 
experiencing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive decided this complaint should be partially upheld. Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions of the loan account, to see if Bank of 
Ireland has done anything wrong in the way its applied the interest rebate on partial 
early settlement. The terms and conditions say, in relation to early full or partial 
repayment of the loan:
the amount you owe us will be reduced by an amount equal to the sum of the amount 
paid and any statutory rebate.
The loan agreement itself also says:
You can repay all or part of the credit borrowed under this Agreement at any time. If 
you wish to make an early repayment, please notify us bycontacting us by 
telephoneand paying off the amount you wish to repay (which may be reduced by a 
rebate).
So Im satisfied that Bank of Ireland correctly applied the interest rebate to the loan 
account. However, I do think it couldve done more to explain clearly to Mr P how the 
rebate would be applied. 
Ive listened to the calls in which Mr P speaks to various Bank of Ireland 
representatives about making an overpayment towards the loan. Ill refer only to the 
calls I think are most relevant and not to all the calls Ive listened to.
During one call, Mr P asks the adviser how long the interest rebate will take to reach 
his account. The adviser replies the interest rebate doesnt go to yourself, it gets 
applied to the interest on the loan. However, the adviser speaks quite fast and its not 
easy to understand everything he says. The adviser then says the rebate will take 
around a week, and that part is much clearer and easier to understand. So I can 
appreciate why Mr P still wouldnt have been certain at this point that the interest 
rebate would be applied to his loan account and may have misunderstood that he 
would receive a payment into his bank account in around a weeks time.
During the call in which Mr P makes the £4000 payment, it is again unclear until after 
Mr P has made the payment that the interest wont be refunded into his account. The 
adviser does explain this clearly after the payment is taken, and Mr P then says that is 
not what he was told previously. So I think Bank of Ireland could have explained 
things more clearly to Mr P before Mr P made the payment, as Mr P suggests on 
several occasions, and during various calls, that he is expecting the interest to be 
paid into his bank account.Since the investigators consideration of the complaint, Mr P has complained that he 
received a letter which said his loan account was in arrears. This turned out to be 
incorrect and it was confirmed over the phone to Mr P that his account was indeed up 
to date. Ive considered this along with all the other points Mr P has made about why 
he thinks the compensation offered is insufficient. However, I dont agree that the 
current offer of £125 for trouble and upset should be increased. This is because the 
issue regarding the incorrect letter being sent out was resolved fairly quickly, with a 
phone call and I dont think it wouldve had a significant impact on Mr P as it was dealt 
with within such a short space of time. 
Mr P has also said that when applying the one month breathing space to his account, 
Bank of Ireland cancelled his direct debit which resulted in Mr P missing two monthly 
payments towards his loan. I appreciate that this has had an adverse impact on Mr P 
in terms of his credit file and the stress this situation has brought on, but I think Bank 
of Ireland should put this right by removing any such adverse information from Mr Ps 
credit file. And I think £125 is fair for the amount of trouble and upset Mr P 
experienced as a result of these issues. 
I say this because I dont think Bank of Ireland deliberately intended to mislead Mr P, 
and I think it tried to do what it could at the time by seeing if the payment could be 
refunded. And I also understand Bank of Irelands submission that Mr P could have 
mitigated his circumstances and reduced any potential financial difficulty by choosing 
to pay less than £4000 towards the loan or by ultimately borrowing from family as he 
suggested he could during phone calls.
Putting things right
To put Mr P back in the position he wouldve been in had the error not occurred, I require 
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to:
Pay Mr P back the £4000 he paid towards the loan account. Bank of Ireland may 
deduct from this any payments Mr P owes towards the loan to date, including missed 
payments, bringing his loan account back into the position it wouldve been in at the 
time of this decision had Mr P not made the overpayment and kept up to date with his 
repayments. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file.
Reinstate Mr Ps original loan term and monthly payments.
Pay Mr P £125 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman