DRN-3785934
The complaint
Miss B complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined her pet 
insurance claim.
What happened
Miss Bs dog wasnt bearing weight on her right hind leg, so an X-ray was undertaken. The 
treating vet concluded the dog was suffering from cranial cruciate ligament disease in that 
leg. Miss B submitted a claim on her pet insurance policy.
RSA declined Miss Bs claim. This was because Miss Bs dog was diagnosed with a cruciate 
rupture in her left hind leg a year before the policy was taken out, and the policy excludes 
any pre-existing conditions the policyholder was aware of when the policy was taken out. 
The policy terms state:
-We consider the following to also be pre-existing conditions: treatment of cruciate 
ligaments in the second leg if one leg has shown signs, been diagnosed or been 
treated for cruciate ligaments before you took out the policy
Miss B accepts the treatment for the cranial cruciate ligament disease in her dogs right hind 
leg isnt covered, but she says the X-ray, that led to the diagnosis, should be. RSA doesnt 
agree because the policy definition of treatment includes X-rays.
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators, but she didnt think it should 
be upheld. Because Miss B disagreed, her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy excludes treatment of cruciate ligaments in a leg, if another leg has had cruciate 
ligament issues before the policy was taken out. In respect of Miss Bs dogs right hind leg, 
its not disputed the treatment costs after the cranial cruciate ligament disease diagnosis 
arent covered. What I need to decide is whether the cost of the X-ray, that led to the 
diagnosis, has also been fairly declined.
The policy defines certain terms, and those terms are identified by being in bold. I note whilst 
the term treatment is in bold throughout the policy, it isnt in bold in the exclusion RSA has 
applied.
But, even if I were to decide the policy definition of treatment doesnt apply to the exclusion, 
Im not persuaded the X-ray can reasonably be separated from the treatment that followed 
the diagnosis. Its evident the X-ray was carried out due to, and as part of the overall 
treatment for, the cranial cruciate ligament disease.
In the context of the cover being provided, and the overall policy terms, Im not persuaded 
RSA unfairly declined any part of Miss Bs claim.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman