DRN-2567291
The complaint
Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr R took out a PPI policy in 1991 at the same time as he applied for a secured
loan in one of the banks branches. It gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
He paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed saying the bank didnt make 
clear the PPI was optional, or check it was suitable for him; and it didnt give him any 
information on the policy. So the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) I have reached my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities. In other words, based on what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time.
 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr R says the bank definitely didnt let him know if the cover was compulsory or not. I cant 
know what was said in the meeting or how the PPI was presented to Mr R. Halifax no longer 
has any of the documentation from the sale, but thats not surprising or unreasonable given 
how long ago the sale was. Ive thought about Mr Rs comments carefully, but I also have to 
consider how long ago the sale was and how that might impact what he recalls. Overall, 
without stronger evidence, I cant fairly conclude Halifax didnt make it clear the PPI was 
optional and Mr R didnt agree to take it out. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr R so it had to make sure it was right for him. He says it 
never checked. But what I need to decide is whether Mr R lost out as a result of any failure 
with the banks checks. I dont think he did. I say this as the cover seems to have been right 
for him based on what I know of his circumstances at the time. Mr R told us he was entitled 
to 12 months sick pay. But this PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits and 
for much longer  up to 60 months for accident and sickness claims. He says he had a good 
redundancy package but the PPI covered him for up to 24 months for unemployment claims. 
It would have allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy payment, giving increased 
financial stability at an already difficult time. Mr R also said he had savings, but the PPI 
would have allowed him to use these for other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep 
them intact for his future needs. So I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr R if he was 
sick or lost his job.
Mr R says he was given no information on the PPI. I agree its possible Halifax didnt give 
him all the information he needed before deciding to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost 
was made clear but the PPI was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered, and I havent 
seen any evidence it was unaffordable. I dont know if the bank pointed out the main things 
the policy didnt cover. However Mr R doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions. So I dont think better information about the policy wouldve changed his 
mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mr R has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman