DRN-4025113
The complaint
Miss C complains that a car acquired with finance from Specialist Motor Finance Limited 
(SMF) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2021 Miss C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with SMF. At the point of supply the car was around 6 years old and had covered 
95,881 miles.
Miss C experienced issues with the car which she reported to the broker in December 2021. 
This included wind coming through the door seal, missing sat nav SD card, tyre sensor 
warning light, air con not working and auto wipers not working.
The car was returned to the supplying dealer for repairs in January 2022. Despite repair 
attempts, Miss C says the issue with the wind coming through the door seal and the tyre 
pressure sensor light werent resolved.
In May 2022 the cam belt snapped. Miss C complained to SMF again. SMF asked Miss C to 
provide evidence that the issue was present or developing at the point of supply. Miss C 
provided as repair quotation, but SMF said this wasnt enough to show that the fault was 
present or developing at the point of supply.
Miss C was unable to pay for repairs at a garage, so she purchased the parts and asked her 
brother in law (a qualified mechanic) to fit them. After the parts had been fitted, Miss C found 
out that the engine had been damaged when the camblet snapped and that further repairs 
were needed.
Miss C provided SMF with a report from her brother in law in September 2022. The report 
set out the repairs which had been carried out.
SMF said the report wasnt acceptable as evidence because it wasnt on headed paper, it 
didnt detail the qualifications of the person who had inspected and/or repaired the car and it 
didnt confirm whether the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. SMF said it 
wasnt upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Miss C was unhappy with the response and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and said the issues with the car were more likely 
due to wear and tear.
Miss C didnt agree. She said shed had numerous issues with the car from the start and she 
didnt think the cam belt shouldve snapped when the car was only 6 years old.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable taking into account factors such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second hand car such as 
that supplied to Miss C  to have a degree of wear and tear and to require more repairs and 
maintenance than, say a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need 
to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car which made it of unsatisfactory quality, as 
opposed to a fault which developed due to general wear and tear.
Ive looked at the available information to decide whether there was a fault with the car. I 
understand that Miss C initially experienced some issues with the door seal, the sat nav, the 
tyre pressure sensor warning light, the air conditioning and the wipers. Some of these issues 
were resolved by the dealership. Miss C has told this service that the door seal and tyre 
pressure sensor were never fixed. I understand that Miss C feels that the car shouldnt have 
had so many issues. However, just because theres a fault with something on a car doesnt 
mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. As Ive already said, Id expect a second 
hand car to have some wear and tear. I dont think that any of the initial issues experienced 
by Miss C meant that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Ive thought about whether there was a fault with the cam belt. Based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that there was a fault. I say this because the invoice from the mechanic states that 
the cam belt (timing belt) has failed.
Ive gone on to consider whether the fault with the cam belt means that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. In order to be persuaded that there was an 
inherent fault with the cam belt (as opposed to a fault caused by wear and tear) Id need to 
see evidence which shows that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed the evidence from the mechanic. This says that the timing belt tensioner has 
failed and that the engine has suffered valve damage. The mechanic is one of Miss Cs 
family members, so Im unable to treat this evidence as independent. But even if I was able 
to give full weight to this evidence, the report doesnt say that the fault with the cam belt was 
present or developing at the point of supply. At its highest, the report only says that as of 
May 2022 the cam belt had failed.
Ive also reviewed the invoice from the garage dated October 2022. This says that the 
engine has suffered damage and that it isnt running correctly. However, the invoice doesnt 
say that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Miss C has said that she doesnt think a cam belt should fail on a car of this age and 
mileage. Ive thought about this and in doing so Ive had regard to whether the cam belt was 
sufficiently durable, because durability is one of the factors I need to consider when deciding 
whether a car is of satisfactory quality.
When the cambelt failed the car was over 7 years old and had covered around 100,000 
miles. Cambelts usually need to be replaced between 40,000  100,000 miles, or after 5 
years, depending on the manufacturers recommendations. So, in this case, Im unable to 
say that there is a durability issue. I think a reasonable person wouldve expected to replace 
the cam belt on a car of this age and mileage.
Miss C has said that the car was mis-sold to her because she was told by the dealership that 
the timing belt had been replaced. I havent seen any evidence to support this. Because of 
the lack of information, I cant fairly conclude that the car was mis-sold.In conclusion, and based on everything Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence for me to say 
that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. Its more likely that the issues 
were due to general wear and tear.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint. I wont be asking SMF to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman