DRN-3310715
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has treated him unfairly in relation to a loan.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr L took out a loan online with Lloyds in December 2019. The loan was £8,704.93 
over 58 months, with a monthly repayment of £221.94 with the purpose of debt 
consolidation due to a preferable interest rate.
Lloyds has acknowledged Mr L used a proportion of the sum towards settling existing 
debt, but the majority was spent on gambling services.
At the time of the application, Mr L told Lloyds his monthly take home pay was 
£1,750, and that his rent and debt outgoings was £500.
Mr L says Lloyds acted irresponsibly by providing this loan as he had other loans at 
the time. And that he had a gambling problem around this time. Mr L contacted 
Lloyds in August 2020 to let it know of his addiction.
Lloyds said it had completed checks using what it knew about Mr L, as well as 
information from credit reference agencies. It said it also completed affordability 
checks using information Mr L provided to estimate monthly minimum repayments on 
what he already owed. And it estimated expected day to day living costs. So it 
disagreed it acted irresponsibly when providing the lending. 
Our Investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
was satisfied Lloyds carried out proportionate checks when assessing his loan 
application. And that his statements and details from the time didnt indicate the 
financial difficulties hes described. 
Mr L disagreed. He said his outgoings were greater than the sum he told Lloyds at 
the time of the application (£500). He also said he had spent over £2,500 on 
gambling within two weeks prior to the loan application, and had 55 gambling 
transactions the month before totalling around £1,500. He said this was evidence of 
his gambling addiction.
Our Investigator didnt change her mind, saying it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely 
on the figures provided by Mr L at the time. She also said it wasnt proportionate for 
Lloyds to check Mr Ls bank statements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and guidance from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Consumer Credit sourcebook required Lloyds to undertake a reasonable assessment 
of Mr Ls creditworthiness when deciding to lend to him. 
Lloyds has its own processes and approach to risk when providing credit, but I have 
to consider whether it has met the requirement of undertaking a reasonable 
assessment in these particular circumstances. 
In line with the above rules, Ive looked at whether Lloyds reasonably considered the 
information provided to it by Mr L, the information it already held, his ability to make 
repayments each month, and any information it could obtain from credit reference 
agencies and his credit file.
Mr L says the information input into the application was not correct as his rent alone 
was higher than the total outgoings hed listed at £500. This may be the case, but it 
seems most likely to me Mr L had input this figure himself given the nature of the 
online application. And on its face, Im not persuaded Lloyds had reason to believe 
this wasnt accurate, and it acted fairly by relying on this information as it did.
Lloyds also considered various factors when assessing his creditworthiness including 
credit commitments elsewhere alongside information he provided. Based on this 
information, its clear that Mr L passed its checks which is why the loan went ahead. 
Mr L has indicated Lloyds shouldve reviewed his statements from around the time 
and it wouldve seen hed spent a considerable sum on gambling. And hes 
suggested it shouldve challenged the information he gave.
Lloyds has said it doesnt check statements as part of its application process. And in 
this instance, I think this was reasonable. I say this as Im satisfied it did carry out a 
range of checks proportionate to the lending in question. And while I understand Mr 
Ls frustration with the lending potentially being based on inaccurate information, I 
dont think its fair or reasonable in this instance to hold Lloyds responsible for that.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman