DRN-3495780
The complaint
Ms J and her representative complain that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (CFS), 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance, irresponsibly granted them a conditional sale 
agreement they couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2019 Ms J acquired a holiday home, in part financed by a conditional sale agreement  
from CFS. The total cost of the holiday home was £66,709. Ms J was required to make 60 
monthly repayments of £547.69. To fund the balance, she made a total advance payment of 
£40,049 by way of her existing holiday home plus a cash deposit of £20,000. The total 
repayable by Ms J under the agreement was therefore £26,660.00.
I understand that Ms Js agreement was settled early with the help of a family member. 
Ms J says that CFS didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. CFS didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included a credit score in order to check that Ms J would be 
able to repay the credit.  
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought CFS ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Ms J. CFS has said it will accept our 
adjudicators view but Ms J remains unhappy with their finding. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CFS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
CFS didnt verify Ms Js income before approving the finance. Given the overall size of the 
borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of the agreement, I think it would have 
been proportionate for CFS to have done so to ensure it was affordable.
I also say this as CFS appears to have accepted the income and expenditure information 
that was given at the time Ms J  took out the agreement. This showed Ms Js monthly 
take-home pay as being £1,900, her net income as £22,800 and her monthly expenditure as 
£573. Based on these figures, CFS was prepared to offer Ms J the finance. 
From looking at Ms Js profit and loss accounts I can see that in 2017-18 Ms J had a profit 
after expenses of around £5,700, that for the year 2018-19 she showed negative income and 
for the year 2019-20 she had a net profit for her business of around £4,500. Ive seen copies 
of Ms Js tax calculations that broadly support this - and I note that for the year 2019-20 
Ms Js income was around £6,000. 
I therefore consider that Ms J couldnt afford to sustainably repay the new agreement as well 
as keep up with the existing commitments for her business, plus her own living expenses. I 
think CFS would likely have found this out too if it had completed proportionate checks. So it 
therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance. 
I also think it would have been proportionate for CFS to have found out more about Ms Js 
committed expenditure, especially given that she was running her own business. I cant be 
sure exactly what CFS would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else 
being available at the time, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the 
information contained in Ms Js bank statements as to what would most likely have been 
disclosed. 
Ive also seen copies of five months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision, 
which would have been available to CFS at the time Ms J applied for the credit. These show 
that during this time, whilst Ms J appears to have been receiving income that averaged 
around £1,220 per month, her average outgoings were around £1,600. This strongly 
suggests that Ms J didnt have enough disposable income, after taking account of her 
business and living expenses, to afford the additional borrowing. CFS therefore didnt act 
fairly by approving the finance.
Ive seen that Ms J and her representative feel very strongly that CFS ought to have done 
more to carry out reasonable checks before providing Ms J with the finance. But having 
made the above finding in Ms Js favour, and noting the actions taken by CFS to try and 
accommodate Ms J when she got into the payment difficulties, I dont think it needs to do 
anything more. And whilst Ive seen that Ms Js representative has explained that Ms J has 
had further losses as she no longer has her previous holiday home, the redress Ive set out 
below takes into account that the agreement has been fully repaid and Ms J has retained 
her new holiday home  although I understand it has been her intention to sell it.
Finally, the way we have asked CFS to put things right, as set out below, reflects our 
standard approach to resolving disputes of this type and Ive not seen any compelling 
reason to depart from that approach here. I appreciate that in Ms Js case it may not be 
necessary to remove adverse information from her credit file. 
Putting things right  what CFS needs to do
As I dont think CFS ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Ms J should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the holiday home, being £66,709. Anything Ms J has 
paid in excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Ms Js complaint CFS should do the following:
Refund any payments Ms J has made in excess of £66,709, representing the original 
cash price of the holiday home. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the 
date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Js credit file regarding the 
agreement.*HM Revenue & Customs requires CFS to take off tax from this interest. CFS must give Ms J 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Ms J asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to put things right in 
the manner set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman