DRN-2412563
The complaint
Mr H complains that the Co-Operative Bank Plc are holding him liable for an additional 
£1,000 which he told us he didnt think hed requested, or received, when he asked to 
withdraw £6,000. The bank says they handed over £7,000 in error.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr H went to the Co-Op Bank to withdraw several thousand pounds in 
cash over the counter. He said he was sure he asked for £6,000 and signed a withdrawal 
receipt for £6,000 and received a printed receipt for £6,000. Money was counted out by the 
cashier and handed over in an envelope. Mr H left the bank and says he gave the envelope 
to the person it was intended for without checking its contents.
The Co-Op has told us that Mr H asked to withdraw £7,000 and was given £7,000 but the 
cashier made an error in only recording £6,000 as being debited from Mr Hs account at the 
time. The Co-Op says the error was discovered shortly afterwards and was subsequently 
rectified when the bank readjusted Mr Hs account, debiting a further £1,000.
The Co-Op attempted to reach Mr H by phone. Mr H and the Co-Op then spent several days 
trying to establish contact. Eventually, when Mr H queried the additional £1,000 debited from 
his account, the Co-Op told him the evidence of their CCTV footage showed theyd handed 
over £7,000. They also explained that their branch manager had updated Mr Hs records to 
amend the £6,000 debit to £7,000. Mr H said he hadnt checked the amount hed been given 
at the time and, after he contacted the person to whom hed given the money, discovered 
they hadnt checked it either. So, neither could confirm how much the bank had handed 
over.
Mr H complained to the Co-Op in January 2020 and the bank responded with their final 
response letter in February 2020. They said that theyd investigated what Mr H had told them 
but were satisfied that the cashier had handed over £7,000 so they couldnt give Mr H the 
£1,000 he asked for. But they upheld that part of Mr Hs complaint relating to the cashiers 
error. They also accepted that they ought to have signposted Mr Hs referral rights to this 
service earlier. The Co-Op apologised for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused and 
credited Mr Hs account with £100.
Mr H was unhappy with this decision. He said the banks communications hadnt been as 
thorough as they claimed, and it had taken several days for them to finally reach him. He 
also said hed seen no evidence to support the banks explanation of what had happened. 
So, in September 2020, he referred his complaint to this service. He asked that the bank 
reimburse the £1,000 that theyd deducted from his account.
In November 2020, one of our investigators sent out her view. She didnt uphold Mr Hs 
complaint and didnt think that the Co-Op need take any further action. This was because the 
bank could demonstrate that their cashier had made an error and that £7,000, not £6,000 
had been handed over to Mr H. Our investigator explained that to rectify the error, the Co-Op 
had subsequently deleted the £6,000 transaction and debited £7,000 from Mr Hs account - 
which is why Mr H didnt see two separate transactions when he viewed his account. She 
noted that the Co-Op had apologised and credited Mr Hs account with £100.
Mr H responded saying he didnt think the view was fair and reiterated his arguments. He 
asked for his case to be considered by an ombudsman. So, now the matter has come to me 
for a decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Hs 
complaint, Ive reviewed the Co-Ops actions to understand whether they couldve done 
anything else under the circumstances. There is a dispute over how much money Mr H 
asked to withdraw from his account. He says it was £6,000 and Co-Op say it was £7,000. 
Ive considered this carefully but I think its more likely than not that Mr H asked for £6,000. I 
say this because:
Mr H says hed made two cash withdrawals of £6,000 from his savings account for the same 
purpose in the past. And Ive seen copies hes provided of his statements from 2017 and 
2018 which support this.
Ive seen a printed receipt for £6,000 provided by Mr H which the bank gave him at the time 
of the transaction. And Ive also seen a copy of the withdrawal receipt for the same date and 
time which clearly has £6,000 printed on it too and Mr H signed this at the bottom. And I 
think that if someone had gone in with the express intention of asking for £7,000 and been 
presented with two receipts, both of which were for £6,000, theyd raise it at the time.
So, Im satisfied it was Mr Hs intention to ask for £6,000 and I think that is what he 
requested. However, on balance, I think that its more likely than not that the cashier at the 
Co-Op did indeed hand over £7,000 to Mr H. And I say that for the following reasons:
The cashier informed the branch manager of his error within fifty minutes, so Im satisfied 
that all the relevant personnel and evidence were available to conduct an effective 
investigation immediately.
Mr H says that the cashier had told him another customer had withdrawn £7,000 earlier that 
day, which might explain why the cashier had that amount in mind and made an error by 
handing over that amount.
The cashier is very clear that he took a sealed packet of £5,000 out of the bottom drawer 
and a sealed packet of £2,000 from the top drawer, and he explained to Mr H that these 
were sealed packets and he handed both over. This is a clear and detailed account and Im 
persuaded its reliable.
Ive also seen a copy of the withdrawal receipt for the same date and time as the printed 
receipt. Although this has £6,000 printed on it, as Ive said, it also has 7K in the cashiers 
handwriting in the £20 note column.
The Co-Op is unable to provide a copy of the CCTV recording of Mr Hs transaction as this 
was securely destroyed in accordance with the banks protocols. But the banks have 
confirmed in the branch managers testimony of the events of that day that the footage was 
viewed by the branch manager and cashier and clearly showed £7,000 being handed out to 
Mr H in two sealed packs of £5,000 and £2,000.The Co-Op has also told us that it carried out an investigation about 40-50 minutes 
following the transaction which immediately established that the tills didnt balance. 
So, I accept that Mr H asked for £6,000. But that an error was made and £7,000 was handed 
over. On the face of it, it wouldnt be fair for Mr H to benefit by Co-Ops error to their 
detriment. But the circumstances Mr H describes are that he handed the money on to a third 
party without checking it. And that therefore he had no benefit, never realised this was the 
case and is unfairly being penalised by having to, in effect, pay for Co-Ops mistake.
Ive thought about this carefully. And if that were the case, it might not be fair for Co-Op to 
debit the full £7,000. But Im not persuaded that is what happened and Ill explain why. The 
Co-Op has told us that the branch manager attempted to call Mr H several times without 
success. Mr H confirms he received a voice message but told us he didnt respond 
immediately because he had no reason to believe the banks attempt to contact him was 
important. I do think as Mr H had been in branch that day, it would be reasonable for him to 
assume that there might have been a problem arising from his visit. But whatever happened 
in the few days before contact was finally established, I dont think the Co-Op did anything 
wrong here.
Im also conscious Mr H has told us that neither he, nor the person the money was intended 
for, ever checked the amount in the envelope. He told us this in correspondence and Ive 
also listened to a copy of the call recording in February 2020, during which Mr H confirmed 
this was the case. And in the same call, when the banks agent explains, and then repeats, 
that £7,000 was counted out in front of him, Mr H says I didnt even noticeI may have 
been confused I didnt recognise  Mr H is unable to say with any certainty that he was 
only handed £6,000.
And I dont find it plausible that not only one but two individuals involved in a transaction of 
several thousand pounds wouldnt bother to look inside the envelope to check how much 
cash it contained, either at the time of receipt or in the days that followed. So, I dont find 
Mr Hs testimony to be credible in this respect.
Mr H also told us (in support of his argument that hed asked for £6,000) that he was simply 
repeating a transaction that hed carried out before. In the February 2020 phone 
conversation, he asserted: Ive done the transaction before I would have expected exactly 
the same service. But Ive looked at the evidence Mr H provided which is copies of his 
account statements and I find this not to be the case. While he did withdraw £6,000 each 
year, in January 2017, his statement shows three withdrawals totalling £6,000 but made at a 
different branch, on three dates over a week. And in May 2018, he made two transfers 
totalling £6,000. So, this leads me to doubt the credibility of Mr Hs testimony as well.
I also think his subsequent conduct - not getting back to the Co-Op when the branch had 
tried to contact him, then leaving it until Tuesday, and selecting his words carefully in 
subsequent communications - leads me to believe that Mr H did have the knowledge, and 
benefit, of the additional £1,000 and was seeking to evade the interest of the bank.
While I cant be 100% certain what actually happened on the day in question, I have to base 
my decision on the evidence available and on the balance of probabilities. I think there was 
an innocent mistake on the cashiers part in providing a receipt for £6,000 and then handing 
over £7,000. But I also think that Mr H became aware that hed been given £7,000 after he 
left the bank and did nothing to draw this to the banks attention.
So, considering all the evidence available, Im persuaded that the Co-op followed its own 
procedures satisfactorily once it was realised its cashier had made an error. And as I think the Co-Ops decision not to refund the £1,000 is fair and reasonable and Im not going to ask 
them to do any more.
So, I dont intend to uphold this complaint because, for all the reasons I set out above, I think 
the Co-Ops decision not to refund the £1,000 is fair and reasonable. And I find the £100 
paid in compensation to Mr H to be in line with our services awards under such 
circumstances.
The response to my provisional decision
The Co-Op agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mr H disagreed with my provisional decision saying there was no evidence to justify my view 
that hed become aware of the amount of money hed received.
So, now the case has been passed back to me to for a final decision.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered again my provisional 
findings.
Mr H has continued to maintain that he didnt become aware of the additional money hed 
received from the Co-Op. But he hasnt said anything to make me change my mind in 
respect of this finding, and I remain satisfied that the Co-Ops actions were fair and 
reasonable, and that they did nothing wrong here. 
So, having considered the response to my provisional decision, Ive no reason to depart from 
the findings Ive already reached in this case. And my decision remains the same.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman