DRN-3874403
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) did not raise a chargeback 
claim for the total cost of her holiday.
What happened
Miss M made a series of payments to a company for a holiday to Thailand which was due to 
happen in June 2020. Unfortunately, due to COVID-19, the trip could not go ahead. Miss M 
paid an additional fee to re-arrange the holiday to a later date in 2021. But unfortunately, this 
also had to be cancelled due to remaining travel restrictions. 
Miss M contacted Halifax on 25 June 2021, requested a refund of the cost of the holiday, 
which totaled £1,399. She had to chase Halifax on a number of occasions and they 
eventually refunded her only part of the cost: £699. They also awarded her £65 for any 
inconvenience caused and £16 for phone call costs.
Miss M raised a complaint as she wanted the full cost of her holiday reimbursed. Halifax 
issued a final response in which it explained there are rules they have to adhere to when 
raising a chargeback claim. Ordinarily a customer has 120 days from the date of a 
transaction to raise a chargeback claim, but in some circumstances this can be extended to 
540 days. As Miss M paid for the holiday in installments, some of the payments were within 
the 540-day time limit, but some were not. Which is why Halifax only refunded £699 and not 
the full £1,399. Halifax recognised it had taken too long to fully explain this to Miss M and so 
paid her a further £80 compensation plus an addition £12 for call costs. Bringing the total 
compensation to £145 plus £28 for call costs.
Miss M remained unhappy with this and felt that she should receive the full cost of the 
holiday back. She referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator assessed it in 
full. They agreed with Halifax in that they had to adhere to the time-limits set by the card 
scheme, meaning some of the installments were therefore out of time under the chargeback 
scheme rules. So they felt what Halifax had done so far was correct and the compensation 
offered and paid was fair in the circumstances.
Miss M disagreed with the outcome but didnt provide any additional comments. As an 
informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. While I know this 
will be disappointing to Miss M, I think Halifax have applied the relevant card scheme rules 
correctly and have refunded all they are able to in the circumstances. Ill explain why in more 
detail. 
There are certain rules that Halifax must adhere to when raising a chargeback. In this case, 
the relevant scheme is set out by VISA. Its important to note that this is a voluntary scheme 
in which VISA make the rules, not Halifax. And that there is no guarantee of a refund under 
the chargeback process.
In most cases, a customer will have 120 days from the date they made a transaction in order 
to raise a chargeback claim and try and obtain a refund. Meaning any claims made after that 
point will be considered too late under the rules of the scheme. 
However, there are some situations, which Miss Ms case falls into, in which the time limit 
can be extended to a total of 540 days. But this is the absolute limit and any claims made 
later than that are considered too late under the card scheme rules.
Miss M paid for the holiday in a series of instalments from the beginning of December 2019 
onwards. She first contacted Halifax to raise a chargeback claim on 25 June 2021, and sent 
an e-mail the following day with the evidence needed. This means Halifax could officially 
raise a chargeback claim on 26 June 2021. 540 days before 26 June 2021 is 3 January 
2020. Meaning that by the card scheme rules, Halifax could raise a claim for any 
transactions Miss M made from 3 January 2020 onwards, which is what they did. 
Unfortunately for Miss M, there were five payments she made prior to that date totalling £700 
which could not be claimed, as the chargeback had been raised too late.
I appreciate Miss M feels that she purchased a holiday which did not go ahead, so she 
should get the full cost back. But in this case, Miss M paid for the holiday in a series of 
transactions. And the chargeback scheme rules state the claim cannot exceed 540 calendar 
days from the transaction processing date. So, I think this therefore applies to each 
individual transaction instead of the cost of the holiday as a whole. This is why I think Halifax 
has correctly applied the card scheme rules when it only refunded half of the instalments, 
totalling £699.
Halifax did also pay Miss M £145 in compensation plus £28 in phone call costs as it wasnt 
very communicative with her throughout the process and this must have been distressing for 
her. I can see that it could have done a better job keeping Miss M informed of the situation 
and on balance, I think the compensation already offered and paid is in line with what I 
would have recommended in the circumstances. 
I want to say that I do sympathise with   Mrs Ms situation as its clear COVID-19 has 
affected her plans and caused her to lose out financially. Having carefully considered 
Halifaxs actions, I think theyve acted reasonably in the circumstances and I dont require 
them to take further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman