DRN-3617305
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was wrongly advised by Cambrian Associates Limited T/A Cambrian 
Chartered Financial Planners (Cambrian) to transfer his defined benefit occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension plan.
What happened
Mr B joined his employers occupational defined benefit pension scheme (the scheme) in 
1979. The scheme had a normal retirement age of 65 but early retirement was possible. In 
November 2017, whilst still employed, Mr B opted out of the scheme becoming a deferred 
member. Mr B received advice from Cambrian in January 2018 to transfer the Cash 
Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of £495,427.26 of the scheme to a new personal pension 
arrangement with another provider. In the same month, Mr B joined his employers defined 
contribution (DC) scheme.
Mr Bs objectives for making the transfer were identified by Cambrian as the following:
Control of his pension fund;
Income flexibility in retirement through greater control over the way the benefits are paid;
To prevent his pension dying with him. Mr B said he wanted his wife to benefit from any 
unused part of the pension fund and for her to be able to leave it to their children on her 
death. If his wife died before him then he would be able to leave any remaining fund to 
his children;
To take a lump sum of £25,000 immediately to gift to his son for a house deposit and to 
take a further lump sum of £20,000 on retirement to clear his outstanding mortgage 
balance in order to become debt free;
To retire at 60 which was 5 years before his schemes normal retirement date;
An annual pension of £24,000.
Cambrian identified Mr B had a balanced approach to risk and a cautious capacity for loss. 
His assets were identified as his home (owned jointly with his wife) valued at about £550,000 
with an outstanding mortgage and £5,000 in shares with his employer. Mr B was cited as 
having no savings so Cambrian suggested he redirect £500 a month to a savings account 
for emergencies or, if left untouched, clearing the estimated outstanding mortgage at age 60.
The transfer took place in April 2018.
In February 2020, Mr Bs representative complained to Cambrian on his behalf that he had 
not been made fully aware of the risks involved in opting out and transferring his pension 
scheme to a personal pension provider. Mr B said that the advice he received to transfer 
was inappropriate and that he should have been advised by Cambrian to remain as a 
deferred member of the scheme. Mr B said that Cambrian had assessed the critical yield at 
his selected retirement age of 60 to be 22.19% and at the schemes retirement age of 65 as 
11.2% both of which were unachievable given Mr Bs attitude to risk and minimal capacity for 
loss.
Mr B also said that the features of paramount importance for making the transfer identified in 
the suitability report were generic objectives that couldve been achieved through other 
financial means. But, he said, alternative solutions to his objectives hadnt been properly 
explored in any depth including considering whether Mrs Bs pension could be used in any 
way to fund the lump sum.
Cambrian looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It 
rejected Mr Bs complaint that it had advised him to opt out of his scheme and said that, as a 
matter of company policy, it never recommended opt outs to any client regardless of the 
scheme they belonged to. Consequently Cambrian said there had been no need to discuss 
any risks associated with doing so. Cambrian said Mr B had first approached it in July 2017 
and not, as alleged, the other way around. It also said Mr B had decided against using the 
first financial adviser he approached because he was too expensive but in the end, on the 
recommendation of a work colleague, he approached another Cambrian adviser in October 
or November 2017 whose charges were more acceptable to him.
Cambrian said the first meeting between the two took place in early January 2018 (the date 
recorded on the fact find) by which time Mr B had already opted out of his scheme.
Cambrian said Mr B was made fully aware of the risks of transferring his scheme. It said that 
whilst it had advised Mr B to transfer his deferred pension it had, during the advice process, 
made him aware that the guarantees he currently enjoyed as a scheme member would 
cease. Cambrian also said that the transferred fund was predicted to last until Mr B was 87 
based on a life expectancy of 83. It said that there was no regulatory requirement in place at 
the time of the transfer to plan beyond a reasonable life expectancy. So, it said, its advice 
was compliant with the then current regulations.
Cambrian said that its recommendation allowed the pension to support Mr Bs income 
requirements beyond his life expectancy whilst simultaneously meeting all his other 
objectives. So, it said, it considered the advice given to be appropriate.
Cambrian also said its Suitability Report had stipulated that the critical yields required to 
replicate the benefits being given up were unachievable. But, it said, the advice to transfer 
wasnt based on the achievability of the critical yields alone, rather it was based on Mr Bs 
other objectives. And it said it disagreed that Mr Bs objectives were of a generic nature. It 
said Mr Bs objectives were specific and were supported in the fact find so it rejected the 
assertion that they couldve been met through more effective planning solutions.
Cambrian also disagreed that Mr B had no capacity for loss. It said he had significant other 
assets (his home and the shares) and enough flexibility in his objectives (for example, the 
age he retired) and target income to weather a loss in the capital value of his fund. Cambrian 
said it had given no consideration to Mr B opting back into the scheme because it simply 
wasnt possible to do so. Cambrian accepted that it hadnt considered whether Mrs Bs 
pension could be used to fund any of the objectives or that it had asked her what shed done 
with the tax-free cash she had already taken out of her own pension. 
It said the possibility of raising the £25,000 lump sum identified as one of Mr Bs objectives 
via additional mortgage borrowing was discounted because it would have meant Mr B going 
to the lender direct and any further advance being subject to full underwriting. It said raising 
the money via a second charge over the remaining 8 years of the main mortgage would 
have cost £502 per month (based on an interest rate of 4.4%) and wouldve reduced Mr and 
Mrs Bs disposable monthly income considerably. Cambrian said any wholesale re-mortgage 
was also discounted as doing so wouldve attracted an early repayment penalty.Cambrian also rejected that Mr B required protection cover as he had confirmed throughout 
the fact find process that one of his main objectives was to ensure his pension didnt die with 
him and that he wanted his wife and children to benefit from any unused fund that remained. 
And it said he had a 3 x salary death benefit from his employer in any event. Cambrian said 
it had carried out a whole of life policy comparison merely to demonstrate the alternative 
options available but the comparison was declined by Mr B principally as he didnt want to 
incur the cost. Cambrian said that whilst more specific recommendations could have been 
made in this area it wasnt a regulatory requirement at the time that it do so.
Cambrian conceded that it hadnt considered Mr Bs work-place pension/DC scheme as a 
receiving scheme for the proposed transfer but said it hadnt breached any regulatory rules 
in the process. It said that whilst the DC scheme could have accepted the DB CETV, Mr B 
required the immediate crystallisation of £100,000 of his funds so he could access £25,000 
in tax-free cash. So, Cambrian said that transferring Mr Bs CETV to his DC scheme would 
not have met his objectives.
Unhappy with the outcome of Cambrians investigation into his complaint, Mr B complained 
to this service in October 2020. Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt 
recommend that it was upheld. He found no evidence that Cambrian had recommended 
Mr B opt out of the scheme. He also thought that given the objectives and priorities Mr B had 
at the time he met with Cambrian in January 2018, the transfer to the personal pension plan 
was in his best interests. Our investigator thought that Mr Bs objectives would not have 
been achieved by remaining in the scheme.
Mr B, through his representative, disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for his 
complaint to be referred for ombudsmans decision. Mr B also sent us evidence to show that 
the £25,000 of tax-free cash he received was spent by repaying £13,200 to his mother in law 
for a loan she had advanced him to buy a car and that £7,500 had been gifted to his son to 
help him with wedding costs. Mr B said this showed there was absolutely no truth in saying 
that he was solely transferring his pension so he could help his son on to the property 
ladder. And he said the Cambrian adviser was well aware that he had used some of the 
money to purchase a car and that he needed to repay his mother in law.
Mr B also said that another Cambrian adviser had been advising his wife for years and that 
once Mr B passed the age of 55 it was his wifes adviser that explained that he could access 
his pension if he transferred it. Mr B said it was his wifes adviser that planted the seed 
about transferring his pension but the reason he didnt proceed with him was because his 
charges were too high. Mr B also said that it was true that he approached the Cambrian 
adviser that did arrange the transfer but the first advisers advice had also been detrimental.
Our investigator didnt change his mind about the outcome of Mr Bs complaint so the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on this case in June 2022 in which I recommended that the 
complaint was upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Having done so, Im intending to uphold the complaint; Ill explain why.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Cambrian should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was.
It is worth just stating at the outset that I, like our investigator, have seen no evidence that 
Cambrian advised Mr B to opt out of his employers DB scheme. So, my findings are limited 
to the advice given to Mr B to transfer his benefits to a personal pension.
Financial viability
Cambrians advice was given after the FCA gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as 
to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr B told Cambrian he wanted to retire at age 60. The critical yield required to match Mr Bs 
benefits at age 60 was 28.05% if he took a full pension and 22.19% if he took the maximum 
tax-free cash (TFC) and a reduced pension. The relevant discount rate closest to when the 
advice was given which I can refer to was published by the Financial Ombudsman Service 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 2.8% per year for 3 years to retirement. For 
further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. All of these rates are 
considerably lower than the critical yield Mr Bs pension would need to attain if it was to 
match his scheme benefits at age 60.
I've taken this into account, along with Mr Bs balanced attitude to risk and also the term 
remaining until his chosen retirement date. There would be little point in Mr B giving up the 
guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level 
of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 22.19%, I think 
Mr B was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme 
at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. But crucially, I dont 
think that was made at all clear to Mr B in the suitability report.
Cambrian has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr B wouldve been able to 
meet his needs after the transfer despite the high critical yields identified. Ive considered 
these which are based on a net annual return rate of 6.2% on the fund, an annual inflation 
rate of 2.5% and a fund charge of 0.79% per year, ongoing adviser charges of 0.5% per year 
and a pension charge of 0.35% per year.
Cambrians models show that the fund runs out when Mr B reaches the age of 87, based on 
his required income of £24,000 a year. This was based on the fund achieving a net return of 
6.2% - in line with its past performance. But as Cambrian will know, past performance is no 
guarantee for future performance and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators 
standard projections to be a more realistic indicator of expected fund growth in this regard in 
the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long 
period of time. So, had returns been lower, I think its clear Mr Bs funds were at risk of 
running out sooner.
Furthermore, I cant see that Cambrian fully explained to Mr B that his DB pension benefitted 
from being index linked and how it would increase annually as opposed to the personal pension remaining at a flat £24,000 after the transfer. And I dont think it was fair for 
Cambrian to emphasise the importance of the cash flow models over the critical yield 
analysis as it wasnt a like-for-like comparison.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Bs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Cambrian has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below. 
Flexibility
Mr B told Cambrian that he wanted to retire early at age 60 and that he needed to take some 
of his TFC immediately (at age 57) to help his son with a deposit for a house. Mr B said hed 
take an extra sum at age 60 to clear the balance of his mortgage which he anticipated would 
be around £20,000 by then. Mr B was clear that he wanted to retire at 60 by which time he 
wanted to be debt free. Whilst Ive noted these objectives Im satisfied he could have 
achieved these by staying in the DB scheme. This is because he was able to take early 
retirement from the scheme and was entitled to take £112,728 as TFC from it at 60 (or 
£148,897 at 65). Mr B was also overpaying on his mortgage by £300 per month in January 
2018 and committed to saving £500 per month (for emergencies).
Mr B has since told us that he didnt need £25,000 to give to his son. Hes shown us a bank 
statement which shows a credit of £25,000 from the pension plan and subsequent payments 
to his mother in law of just over £13,000 and to his son for a wedding reception of £7,500. 
But I cant see any evidence that Mr B told Cambrian that this was why he needed to access 
£25,000 immediately. The Fact Find and the Suitability Report both document that Mr B 
needed £25,000 at that point to gift to his son to help him on the housing ladder. I cant see 
any evidence either that Mr B made any attempt to correct Cambrians understanding of this 
objective, if indeed it was wrong, so I think it was fair for Cambrian to include it as one of 
Mr Bs objectives for the transfer.
Despite doing so, I think there were other ways, not fully explored, for Mr B to have raised 
the £25,000 he told Cambrian he wanted. I accept that a wholesale re-mortgage of his home 
would have attracted an un-necessary early repayment charge as Mr and Mrs B were on a 
fixed deal at that point through to 2020. But a further advance could have raised the money 
Mr B indicated he needed. Whilst Cambrian says this would have been subject to further 
underwriting I dont consider that to be a barrier to doing so. And as Mr B was already 
overpaying on his mortgage and was able to start saving £500 a month it seems reasonable 
to me to think that he couldve afforded the repayments. I know that Cambrian says it 
calculated it would cost Mr B £502 per month to take out an additional mortgage but the 
interest rate it has based this on seems somewhat high to me. It also makes no mention of 
the term the repayments were due to be set over.
So I think Mr Bs objective of needing £25,000 now couldve been achieved by taking out a 
second mortgage or loan. I can see that the repayments would most likely have been 
affordable and that there would have been capacity within any TFC surplus from the DB 
scheme to clear any outstanding balance when Mr B took his benefits at age 60. However, I 
cant see that this option was explored by Cambrian with Mr B. And I think it ought to have 
been, given how important Mr Bs DB scheme was to his retirement  transferring it simply to 
access a relatively small sum ought to have been a last resort.
According to the information gathered by Cambrian, Mr B said he needed £24,000 per year 
in retirement. If he took benefits from the DB scheme at 60, then he would be entitled to an 
annual income of £16,909. Whilst this would not have met Mr Bs retirement needs as noted 
in the Fact Find, I still think he could have met his retirement income needs by remaining in the DB scheme until his state pension became payable at 67 or until the schemes normal 
retirement age of 65 (when his pension would have been £22,334 which was much closer to 
his stated income aim).
If Mr B had stayed in the scheme and taken early retirement at 60 he could have used the 
£112,728 TFC he would have received at that point to make up the shortfall in income until 
he reached state retirement age. The same would be true if he waited until age 65 when his 
TFC at this point wouldve been £148,897. And both TFC amounts were more than sufficient 
to both make up any income shortfall and leave Mr B with a surplus (more than enough to 
clear his mortgage at 60). And it should not be forgotten that a pension of £16,909 at 60 
would be indexed linked and increasing year on year whereas the income drawdown 
included no such increases.
So, overall, I think that Mr B couldve met these objectives by remaining in the DB scheme 
and taking his benefits at age 60.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course, when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr B. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr B about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Cambrian explored to what extent 
Mr B was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr B 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr B predeceased her. I dont think Cambrian made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mr B. This benefit was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent 
on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension 
was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum left as the 
fund may have been depleted particularly if Mr B lived a long life. In any event, Cambrian 
should not have encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through 
a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr B genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his wife and children which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Cambrian shouldve instead explored life insurance options. I appreciate that the 
suitability report mentioned a whole of life policy with a sum assured equivalent to the CETV 
(£495,427)  this was discounted by Mr B because of the cost (£686.32 per month). But I 
dont think that this was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr B.
Basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Bs pension benefits essentially assumed that 
he would pass away on day one following the transfer which I dont consider to be 
reasonably realistic. Ultimately, Mr B wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension fund 
to his wife/their children which would be a lot less than this amount if he lived a long life 
and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr B 
how much he would ideally like to leave to his wife and children, and this couldve been 
explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to 
provide.Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored by Cambrian and put to Mr B as an alternative. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Bs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr B was not an 
experienced investor, as evidenced from the fact that his only investment was in his 
employers company share scheme, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the 
knowledge to be able to manage his pension fund on his own. Indeed the Suitability Report 
states that Mr Bs pension is a complex product which will require regular reviews. So, I dont 
think that this was a genuine objective for Mr B, it was simply a consequence of transferring 
away from his DB scheme.
Nor was the funding of Mr Bs DB scheme in a position such that he would have had any 
genuine concerns about the security of his pension. Furthermore, should the scheme ever 
end up moving to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), I think Cambrian should have 
explained that this was no cause for concern. Thats because Mr B was unlikely to match, let 
alone exceed, the benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred out to a 
personal pension.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control, immediate access to a lump sum and potential for 
higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive 
features to Mr B. But Cambrian wasnt there just to transact what Mr B might have thought 
he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr B needed and recommend 
what was in his best interests.
It follows that I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He gave up a guaranteed, 
risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was very likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr B shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to access a small lump sum that could have been acquired through other 
means. And the potential for higher death benefits doesnt justify giving up the guarantees 
associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Cambrian shouldve advised Mr B to remain in his DB scheme.
I also have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, against Cambrians 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, if Cambrian had advised him it wasnt in his best interests 
to do so. I say this because Mr B was an inexperienced investor with a balanced attitude to 
risk and, aside from his state pension at age 67, his DB pension accounted for all his 
retirement provision. So, if Cambrian had provided Mr B with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice. It is also worth stating that Ive seen no evidence that Mr B 
wouldve insisted on going against such advice had it been given.
Cambrian may argue that Mr B had already decided to transfer his DB scheme by the time 
he met with its adviser, as hed already decided to opt out and had met with another adviser 
by the time he met with them. It says Mr B only didnt proceed with that adviser because he 
thought his fees were too high. But Im not persuaded that Mr Bs concerns about death 
benefits, control and flexibility in retirement were so great that he wouldve insisted on the 
transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Cambrian had 
explained that Mr B could meet all of his objectives  the lump sum, early retirement, 
pension of £24,000 per year  without risking his guaranteed pension  it is reasonable to 
think that such advice wouldve carried significant weight with him. So, I dont think Im able 
to reasonably conclude that Mr B would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme. 
In light of the above, I think Cambrian should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Mr B replied to my provisional decision to say that he accepted it. Cambrian replied to my 
provisional decision to say it didnt accept it and asked for a final decision. 
Cambrian sent a lengthy response to my provisional decision much of which contained 
points it previously made and which had already been considered by me provisionally. I dont 
intend to restate those points here. Insofar as Cambrian made any new submissions about 
this complaint these can be summarised as follows: 
It gave clear information to Mr B about what death benefits were available to him 
under the DB scheme and what he was giving up (as set out in the suitability report). 
It also disagrees that it encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement;
That the cashflow model included had an annual inflation rate of 2.5% built in so it 
was untrue to say that it had compared a flat income of £24,000 in the personal 
pension to Mr Bs index linked DB benefits. It is also unfair to place such emphasis 
on the critical yield as no-one would ever transfer their DB scheme to a personal 
pension with the sole aim of matching the guaranteed benefits they had lost  people 
transfer because they want their retirement to take a different shape;
The fact find and suitability report (but not the cashflow forecast) make reference to 
the fact that Mr Bs intention was to reduce the amount of income he took from the 
fund in his mid-70s. Together with the reduction in income taken as a result of 
receiving his state pension, this would mean that Mr Bs fund would last much longer 
than I had stated provisionally. And the discount rate of 2.8% is very low. The 
pension fund growth rate was 5.9% and is more realistic; 
It had explained to Mr B (in the suitability report) how his DB scheme would increase 
each year;
Irrespective of what Mr B intended to use the tax-free cash he accessed for, he has 
already made good use of the pension flexibility he obtained  even before reaching 
age 60. Such flexibility wasnt open to Mr B in his DB scheme, at least not without 
severe penalty. And Mr Bs further use of the flexibility offered by his personal 
pension (by taking two further amounts of tax-free cash) demonstrates that he fully 
understood the differences between a DB scheme and a personal pension. 
His objectives were targeted to those that a personal pension, rather than a DB 
scheme, could offer him and show that he understood what he was doing and that he 
was determined to transfer his pension, as demonstrated by him opting out of his DB 
scheme himself and seeking advice from and, meeting with, 3 different advisers. 
Mr B intended to transfer his DB scheme benefits and would have done so 
irrespective of any information he was given;
That Mr B would have had to have taken an income from his DB scheme even when 
he was still employed which would have made him a higher rate taxpayer;
Mr B has taken a total of £85,000 tax-free cash from his pension yet is only age 61. 
To access this amount of TFC he would have had to have taken the DB scheme 
benefits at age 57 which wouldve meant a 15% reduction in his annual pension (for 
life) and TFC which is something I have failed to bear in mind;Mr B misrepresented his debts to Cambrian the motive for which may have been to 
influence the adviser to give him the outcome he wanted;
The only sensible way of looking at life assurance for Mr B was on a whole of life 
basis because it couldnt know what the optimum duration for any term assurance 
policy could be; 
At no point had Cambrian sought to raise any concern with Mr B about the future 
financial viability of the DB scheme;
Mr B understood the process he was entering into because he had had to meet with 
his employer to confirm he understood the benefits he was giving up before it would 
let him opt out of the scheme. And Cambrian informed Mr B at several points during 
the advisory process that there were serious implications for him if he proceeded with 
the transfer. Mr B spoke with 3 advisers and went through a suitability report which 
mentioned throughout the benefits and guarantees he was giving up by transferring. 
Mr B also signed a form to confirm he understood what he was doing. So having 
gone through all of these stages it is hard to believe Mr Bs claims that he didnt know 
what he was doing. Although the advice Cambrian gave was to transfer, Mr B wasnt 
forced into doing so;
The words used by Mr B to articulate his complaint are suggestive of those given by 
claims management companies to their clients to enhance the prospects of a 
complaint succeeding;
Throughout his complaint it has been shown that Mr Bs recollection is incorrect (for 
example in relation to his use of the TFC and that he was advised by Cambrian to 
opt-out of his scheme when he wasnt); 
The compensation proposed if the complaint is upheld is unfair because paying a 
lump sum (minus a CMC fee) doesnt put Mr B back in the position he wouldve been 
in if he hadnt transferred  he would still have no guaranteed retirement income and 
his fund would still be at risk from investment performance yet he would retain all the 
benefits of transferring.
Cambrian said that its advice to Mr B was suitable to meet all of his needs and objectives so 
it wanted the complaint reviewed by a senior ombudsman. 
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive thought about what Cambrian has 
said in response to my provisional decision but I havent been persuaded to change my 
mind. I remain of the view that this is a complaint that should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I dont disagree that Cambrian gave Mr B clear information about what death benefits were 
available to him under the DB scheme and what benefits he was giving up. Despite doing so 
however, I still dont think that it explained to Mr B that, whilst one of his objectives was to 
leave his spouse/children an inheritable lump sum upon his death, the lump sum he 
envisaged he might leave could be seriously depleted as he drew down income (and other 
lump sums from time to time as was his stated intention) over the years. Consequently, the 
objective he sought was at significant risk of not being attainable and so, would not, in my 
view, have been worth exchanging guaranteed death benefits under the DB scheme for. 
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed as the 
spouses pension it provided wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr B predeceased her  and depending on when he died, have been of greater benefit than any remaining personal 
pension fund. The spouses pension under the DB scheme was guaranteed and it escalated 
 it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas any sum remaining on death in 
a personal pension was. And, as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a 
large sum left as the fund may have been depleted particularly if Mr B lived a long life. 
I can also see from the DB scheme booklet that it included an additional death benefit for 
members that joined the scheme before 1991 which Mr B did. It stated that between 
retirement and the schemes normal retirement date Mr B was entitled to a death benefit 
equivalent to three times his annual earnings in the last year before retirement. But I cant 
see this was referred to at all by Cambrian.
Furthermore, if Mr B genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend 
on investment returns, or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think 
Cambrian shouldve instead fully explored the option of life insurance; but it didnt. I 
acknowledged provisionally that Cambrian had provided Mr B with a quote for a whole of life 
policy. And I set out there my findings on this point. Nothing Cambrian has said in response 
to my provisional decision about this point has caused me to change my mind. I dont agree 
with Cambrian that the only sensible way of looking at life assurance for Mr B was on a 
whole of life basis because it couldnt know what the optimum duration for any term 
assurance policy could be. Thats because the quote Cambrian obtained was based on the 
assumption that Mr B would pass away the day after the transfer and that his spouse would 
need, for the remainder of Mr Bs life (however that long might be) a sum insured that was 
equivalent to the CETV. 
Cambrian should have asked Mr B how much he wanted to leave his wife/children and then 
this could have been explored on a whole of life/term assurance basis. 
But the whole of life option was the only one put to Mr B by Cambrian. Other forms of life 
assurance (such as decreasing term assurance) werent explored or presented as an 
alternative to Mr B. Of course the monthly premium for the whole of life policy must have 
appeared unreasonably high to Mr B. But I cant agree with Cambrian that this was the only 
sensible way of looking at life assurance for Mr B. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the surrender of guaranteed retirement benefits for Mr B. And I dont think 
that insurance was properly explored as an alternative means of leaving his family a lump 
sum.
Cambrian has said the cash flow models show Mr Bs annual income of £24,000 expressed 
in todays terms, meaning that inflation of 2.5% per year has already been factored in. And I 
accept that this means it could be compared with Mr Bs DB benefits, which also increase in 
payment. However, I note that the scheme pension Mr B built up before 2006 (which 
accounted for a significant part of his pension) benefitted from a higher increase in payment 
 it would increase by inflation but was capped at 4% and 5%, as opposed to 2.5%. And in 
any event, the point I sought to make here, and the point I maintain, is that the cash flow 
model demonstrates there was a real risk of Mr Bs fund being depleted before he died if 
investment returns were poor or he lived a long life. Whereas Mr Bs pension under the DB 
scheme was guaranteed for as long as he lived.
The critical yield required to match Mr Bs scheme benefits at age 60 when he retired was 
significant at 22.19% if he took the maximum TFC available. I cant reasonably ignore this. 
And whilst there is no suggestion that Mr B transferred his pension with the sole aim of 
matching his guaranteed scheme benefits I dont think his stated objectives  for the reasons 
I gave provisionally  can justify the advice Cambrian gave to transfer when the critical yield is as high as in this case. And whilst Cambrian may think placing such emphasis on the 
critical yield is unfair, the regulator required Cambrian to set out the rate of return required to 
replace the benefits being given up. So, I dont think it is an unreasonable measure to look at 
when deciding whether transferring out of the scheme was in Mr Bs best interests.
Whilst the fact-find and suitability report may refer to Mr Bs intention to reduce the amount 
of income he was drawing from his mid-70s there is no cash flow model to show what that 
might look like. So I dont know how much less Mr B was thinking of taking or when. The 
cash flow model shows the fund will run out when Mr B reaches the age of 87  even taking 
the state pension into account  and I dont think its reasonable, in the absence of any 
specifics about when and how much a reduction in the income drawdown may occur, to 
ignore that.
Cambrian may well consider the discount rate of 2.8% to be low but that is what a 
reasonable rate of return looked like when the advice was given. And while it isnt a measure 
that the regulator required Cambrian to take into account, it is a useful consideration here, 
particularly when considered together with the regulators projection rates.
I accept that the suitability report set out how Mr Bs DB scheme benefits would increase 
each year. That it did still doesnt mean the advice Cambrian gave Mr B to transfer was in 
his best interests. 
Mr B has availed himself of the pension flexibility he obtained by taking out two further TFC 
amounts before reaching retiring at age 60, something he could not have done but for the 
transfer. However, the fact Mr B went on to take further amounts of TFC doesnt 
retrospectively make unsuitable advice suitable. 
I dont know what Mr B used the additional TFC he took out of his pension for (I assume at 
least £20,000 went on clearing down his outstanding mortgage) but it is possible that he took 
it out only because he could. I dont disagree with Cambrian that such flexibility wasnt open 
to him in his DB scheme. But if he hadnt transferred his DB scheme, he wouldnt have been 
able to make the withdrawals. Rather he would have to have waited until he received the 
£112,000 in TFC at retirement from the scheme at age 60.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr B needed further TFC (in addition to his stated objective of 
£25,000 that he told Cambrian about at the time of the transfer) before he reached 60. And 
in any event, Im looking at the suitability of the advice to transfer at the time it was given, not 
at what has happened since. I cant know whether Mr B took more TFC because he needed 
to or just because he could and, if it was the latter, he was able to do so only because hed 
received unsuitable advice. 
Mr B may well fully understand the differences between a DB scheme and a personal 
pension but that doesnt mean the advice he received from Cambrian was in his best 
interests. 
I set out provisionally, in detail, why I didnt think Mr Bs stated objectives didnt demonstrate 
that the transfer was in his best interests. I explained there how I thought Mr Bs objectives 
could be met by other means. That Cambrian thinks that Mr Bs objectives were targeted to 
what a personal pension could offer hasnt changed my mind about this. I explained 
provisionally how there were alternative ways that Mr B couldve raised £25,000, how he 
could have achieved his aim to leave his family a lump sum, how he could retire at 60 etc. all 
without transferring. So I cant agree that his objectives were only aligned with having a 
personal pension rather than a DB scheme or show that he fully understood what he was 
doing. As I set out above, for example, Cambrian should have found out more about Mr Bs 
objective of leaving a lump sum for his spouse and children and explained to him other, more affordable ways, he could achieve this. Only then could it be said that Mr B understood 
in full what he was doing.  
I am sure that flexibility, control, immediate access to a lump sum and potentially higher 
death benefits would have sounded attractive to Mr B. But the fact he met with 3 different 
advisers doesnt mean that he intended to transfer his pension regardless of the information 
he received. I cant agree with Cambrian on this point. It had a duty to make sure that the 
transfer was in Mr Bs best interests  that was regardless of what Mr B thought or how 
many advisers hed met  and Im not satisfied that the advice it gave him to transfer, taking 
all the circumstances into account, discharged this duty. It didnt have to advise Mr B that a 
transfer was in his best interests just because Mr B said thats what he wanted to do. If 
Cambrian had explained that Mr B could meet all of his objectives  the lump sum, early 
retirement, pension of £24,000 per year  without risking his guaranteed pension  it is 
reasonable to think that such advice wouldve carried significant weight with him. So, I dont 
think Im able to reasonably conclude that Mr B would have insisted on transferring out of the 
DB scheme regardless of any information he received.
Mr B retired and started drawing his pension at 60. Ive seen no evidence that he would have 
done anything different if hed remained in his DB scheme. So Im not sure why Cambrian 
has said Mr B would have become a higher rate taxpayer if he had stayed employed and 
had to draw his DB pension  not only did he not do so but I cant see that he ever indicated 
that he would remain employed to the point that this would have become an issue. It follows 
that I dont see the relevance of Cambrians comment. 
I may not have specifically provisionally referred to the fact Mr B has withdrawn £85,000 in 
total in TFC despite being only 61 or that if hed have remained in his DB scheme he 
wouldnt have been able to do this unless he took his benefits at age 57. I refer to my 
comments above on this matter. I dont know why Mr B withdrew another £60,000 beyond 
the £25,000 he stated as one of his objectives in making the transfer. Ive seen no evidence 
that Mr B needed access to this additional amount or that he would have taken his DB 
scheme benefits early just so he could obtain it. So I think that Cambrians comment that 
Mr B would have needed to take his scheme benefits at 57 to facilitate obtaining £85,000 in 
TFC, and that doing so would have triggered a 15% reduction in his annual pension, is one 
that that is applied with hindsight and is speculative. We dont know what Mr B would have 
done had he remained in his scheme  but I think it is most likely that he wouldve waited 
until he retired at 60 and received his TFC as one lump sum at that point. 
It appears that Mr B may well have misrepresented his debts to Cambrian as his stated need 
for £25,000 doesnt match with what he actually needed that amount for. But I cant know if 
Mr Bs motive for doing so was to influence Cambrians adviser into getting the outcome he 
wanted. Again, this is speculative and Ive seen no evidence that this was indeed the case.
I dont doubt that Cambrian never raised any concern with Mr B about the future financial 
viability of his DB scheme nor did I say provisionally that it had. 
Even if Mr B did fully understand what he was doing by transferring, it doesnt remove the 
requirement from Cambrian to show that the transfer was in best interests. I set out 
provisionally, and in further detail in this my final decision, why I didnt think it had done so 
and Im afraid that nothing it has said in response has persuaded me to change my mind.
Mr B is indeed represented by a CMC and it is responsible for articulating his complaint. I 
would like to reassure Cambrian however, that this service is very experienced in identifying 
the true nature of a complaint so it need not be concerned that the prospects of Mr Bs 
complaint succeeding have in any way been unfairly enhanced. I agree with Cambrian that, at times in this complaint, it has been shown that Mr Bs 
recollection of events is incorrect. That I agree with Cambrian about this issue still doesnt 
override the fact Cambrian should not have recommended that Mr B transfer his DB 
scheme. 
I note Cambrians remarks about the compensation I am asking it to pay but, as it is aware, it 
is the regulators pension review guidance on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
transfers that has to be applied here. 
Cambrian said that its advice to Mr B was suitable to meet all of his needs and objectives. 
Whilst the transfer can be said to have met Mr Bs needs and objectives, the fact Mr B had to 
give up the guarantees and benefits associated with his DB scheme outweighs this fact. The 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it was unsuitable - that means 
that Cambrian should only have considered it if it could clearly show it was in Mr Bs best 
interests. For the reasons Ive given, both provisionally and in this final decision, I dont think 
Cambrian has been able to meet this threshold. 
Finally, this service doesnt offer reviews of provisional decisions by senior ombudsmen. As 
Cambrian will no doubt be aware, any submissions it makes in response to a provisional 
decision are referred to the same ombudsman for consideration.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. 
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr B. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Cambrian to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Cambrians unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given. Cambrian must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
For clarity, Mr B retired at 60 (in September 2020), so this should be the basis for the 
calculations. In addition to the £25,000 TFC he took in April 2018 he says he withdrew a 
further £45,000 in August 2020.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
Cambrian may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income 
tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date Cambrian receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Cambrian to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Cambrian to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. My provisional findings now form part of this, 
my final decision. 
Determination and award:- I require Cambrian Associates Limited T/A Cambrian Chartered 
Financial Planners to pay Mr B the redress Ive set out in the putting things right section 
above up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I intend to additionally require 
Cambrian to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Cambrian 
to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also intend to 
recommend that Cambrian pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B. 
Should Mr B ultimately accept my final decision, any money award becomes binding on 
Cambrian, however, my recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that 
Mr B would be able to accept my final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman