DRN-2834924
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain about work carried out by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under 
their buildings insurance. Mrs S and Mr S want Aviva to repair the damage to their property.  
  
What happened
The background to this matter is known to both parties so I wont repeat much of that here. 
In summary, Mrs S and Mr Ss basement flooded in March 2019. They made a claim under 
their buildings insurance and the agent appointed by Aviva to sort out the issue caused 
damage by drilling holes into the floor of the basement and hallway. This damaged the damp 
proof membrane (DPM) and led to water coming up through the holes. Mrs S and Mr S 
complained to Aviva who responded with a proposal to put things right.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S and Mr S. And, having considered reports from 
experts setting out conflicting opinions on the work needed to repair the damage, she asked 
Aviva to arrange three experts and for Mrs S and Mr S to choose one of those to inspect 
their property and prepare a report. The report has been prepared by a company  who Ill 
refer to as company M.  
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to   
Mrs S and Mr S and Aviva on 23 April 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mrs S and Mr S. The key facts about the 
complaint arent in dispute. Aviva have admitted they got things wrong when their 
agent drilled holes into the basement floor which damaged the DPM. The only issue I 
have to decide is what steps Aviva need to take to put things right. I can see Aviva 
have paid compensation for the trouble, inconvenience and disruption caused to Mrs 
S and Mr S. And, theyve also paid for some items damaged and other expenses 
incurred by Mrs S and Mr S. These payments have been agreed between Mrs S and 
Mr S and Aviva and I think these are fair and reasonable. The only issues for me to 
decide is the level of repairs which need to be carried out to Mrs S and Mr Ss 
property and any further impact of this. 
There are a number of expert reports which comment on the damage and the 
method to put things right. There are conflicting opinions in some areas. So, while I 
have reviewed these, I have based my decision on the report prepared by company 
M. The instruction of this expert was agreed between the parties on the 
understanding that this is the report we will use. I can see from the report prepared 
by company M, they comment on the condition of the original DPM and the work 
needed to put things right. I have referred to various parts of the report below: 
the ingress of water occurred due to a poorly conceived and installed existing 
waterproofing system, which is mainly reliant on a visqueen plastic sheet. 
The existing visqueen membrane system is not fully integrated to the sump and thus 
does not provide a robust waterproof detail, between the membrane and the sump 
that could prevent ground water intrusion.  
The type of visqueen plastic DPM is not the type of membrane that would be 
associated with basement waterproofing, especially where walls are earth retaining. 
 
In this respect, I would direct the reader to the three principle types of waterproofing 
recommended in British Standard BS8102:2009.
Therefore, the type of waterproofing system for this type of basement should have 
been a Type C drained cavity membrane system, incorporating 2 NO. Sub-terranean 
sumps with dual pumps, battery back-up and alarm system, which currently attracts a 
10 year waterproofing guarantee.
Therefore, in view of the current findings, the matter of water ingress due to the 
inadequacy of the basement waterproofing, was a disaster waiting to happen but it 
has to be said that exceptional circumstances of flooding in the [area near to where 
Mrs S and Mr S live] area, in the middle of March 2019, would have placed a severe 
test against even the most competently designed and fitted waterproofing scheme.
In the writers opinion and from experience of investigating these types of cases, that 
the property has been purchased on an assumption that the damp proofing 
installations are fully adequate, and in this case the damp proofing is wholly 
inadequate and shoddily installed.
Due to the puncturing of the plastic DPM, this would need to be either repaired or 
completely replaced before any meaningful attempt could be deployed to return the 
basement to a dry condition. However, even if the membrane was repaired or even 
renewed like for like, the basement waterproofing would not comply with the 
requirements set out in British Standard BS8102:2009.
Therefore, the best option would be to remove the existing solid floor screed and 
rigid insulation in its entirety, and repair or completely replace the existing DPM and 
including the renewing of the sub floor heating system. 
The on-going dampness to the building continues as a result of the damage to the 
DPM which we believe was caused by [Avivas agent] attempt to drill through the 
solid floor, without sufficient regard to the thickness of the floor or the known depth to 
the plastic DPM.
A repair to the existing DPM is achievable but would result in removal of the floor 
screed and renewal of the underfloor heating system, but would not protect the 
structure from future water intrusion, as a result of the fluctuation in the height of the 
local water table.
Aviva have offered to provide a cash settlement to replace the DPM on a like for like 
basis. Theyve offered a cash settlement of £28,931.32 which covers all necessary 
works and DPM to all areas of the basement. Aviva refer to the report from company 
M and say its clear the existing waterproofing system in the basement was 
inadequate and did not comply with the standards for such structures at the time. I 
note Avivas point here is that, by offering a cash settlement to enable Mrs S and Mr 
S to replace the DPM, this puts them back in the position they were in before their 
agent caused the damage. 
They say the cash settlement gives Mrs S and Mr S the opportunity to install an 
adequate waterproofing system to the basement which lies outside the scope of the 
policy.  The report from company M says a repair, or even full replacement on a like for like 
basis, of the basement waterproofing would not comply with the requirements set out 
in British Standards. Company M have referred to BS8102:2009. This is essentially a 
document that outlines best practice when planning a basement waterproofing 
scheme, advising the designer on the various methods of waterproofing available 
and the correct way to specify basement waterproofing systems to ensure a 
successful and long-lasting installation. 
So, taking this all into account, I intend to decide that Avivas offer of a cash 
settlement is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I acknowledge that this work 
has become necessary due to Avivas agents error. And, had the error not occurred 
then Mrs S and Mr S can argue they wouldve been left with an undamaged DPM 
which might not have needed replacing. However, company Ms report says the 
existing basement waterproofing was a disaster waiting to happen. This persuades 
me that the existing DPM wouldnt have provided protection for much longer.     
The comments in company Ms report suggests replacing the existing DPM on a like 
for like basis wont provide a long-lasting installation. And, I also note that any work 
under the policy needs to be lasting and effective. I acknowledge this but its 
important to take into consideration that this isnt a typical matter involving a claim 
against the policy  its one where the damage which needs to be put right has been 
caused by Avivas agent. So, in these circumstances, its fair and reasonable for 
Aviva to put Mrs S and Mr S back in the same position they were in had the error not 
occurred. And, in the circumstances of this case, that means a cash settlement which 
takes into account replacement of the existing DPM. 
I accept the cash settlement doesnt take into account a waterproofing system which 
conforms to British standards but the information provided shows the existing DPM 
doesnt meet the same standard.   
I do understand company Ms report says a like for like replacement wont conform to 
British Standards and wont protect against future water intrusion. I have taken this 
into account when deciding on a fair and reasonable way to resolve the issue. And I 
think a cash settlement achieves this as it allows Mrs S and Mr S to pay any 
additional amount if they do wish to have a DPM structure which conforms to British 
Standards. In addition to this, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Aviva to carry out a 
repair in a manner which doesnt conform to relevant industry standards. So, a cash 
settlement which factors in all the required work ensures Aviva can put Mrs S and Mr 
S back in the position they were in. And, it allows Mrs S and Mr S to consider their 
options in relation to the repairs.  
Mrs S and Mr S say they want Aviva to replace their possessions on a like for like 
basis. They say they have high specification items in their kitchen and Aviva, in their 
breakdown of work, have referred to cheaper items. I can see the terms and 
conditions say replacement of any contents will be on a like for like basis or based on 
the nearest equivalent available in the current market. As mentioned above, this 
complaint doesnt relate to a claim against the policy, so the terms and conditions 
dont strictly apply. But, I think its fair, given that Ive decided the DPM can be 
replaced on a like for like basis, that Aviva take a similar approach when looking at 
the possessions. A replacement on a like for like basis will ensure Mrs S and Mr S 
are back in the same position. 
I do wish to clarify here though that like for like doesnt mean old for new and its 
reasonable for Aviva to take into account the age of the possessions which will need 
replacing. So, the cash settlement should factor in replacement possessions on a like 
for like basis.     
I can see Mrs S and Mr S also say any works carried out need to include tanking. 
They say theyve been told this is the only method of getting a longer guarantee on 
the work. I have considered this but Im not persuaded this is something Aviva should 
be responsible for. There has been an error here so my role is to find a solution to 
put things right in a way which is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The DPM 
has been damaged and a replacement on a like for like basis will not only resolve the 
damage but will put Mrs S and Mr S back in the position they were in before the error 
occurred. 
I understand Mrs S and Mr S will be disappointed with my intended decision. Mrs S 
and Mr S have my sympathy as I can see the trouble, upset and inconvenience they, 
and their family, have been through. I do understand their reasons for wanting a 
waterproofing system which conforms to todays standards, but as Ive mentioned 
above, this isnt a typical matter involving a claim against the policy. Had it been, then 
a lasting and effective repair would have been a solution to put things right. But, 
given that its Avivas agents error Im asking them to put right, its not unfair or 
unreasonable for them to put Mrs S and Mr S back in the same position they were in.  
I can see Mrs S and Mr S have provided photos which show cracks appearing along 
the walls and ceiling of the basement. They believe it relates to the issues theyre 
experiencing with the water ingress. I cant see this has been considered by Aviva 
and I think its fair and reasonable for them to investigate this separately to determine 
whether its an issue caused by the original flood or as a result of the ongoing water 
ingress following the drilled holes. So, I havent looked into this as part of this 
decision but Aviva should investigate this. 
Mrs S and Mr S have received compensation for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused following the further occasions of water ingress from the drilled holes. I dont 
intend to revisit this as its been agreed by the parties and I think that offer was fair 
and reasonable. It did however only take into account the impact on Mrs S and Mr S 
up to that particular date. It didnt take into account the further, and significant, 
disruption, trouble and inconvenience which will be caused to them by the further 
works which now need to be completed. The report from company M and the 
breakdown of work provided by Aviva shows the repairs involve a significant amount 
of work. 
While I cant estimate a timeframe over which the repairs are likely to be completed, I 
can say, on the balance of probabilities, its not something which is likely to be 
completed over a few days. Ive also not seen any information which persuades me 
this is likely to be completed in a week. This will have a very significant impact on 
Mrs S and Mr S, and their family. And, the work has become necessary as a direct 
result of the error made by Avivas agent. So, taking this into account, I think its fair 
and reasonable for Aviva to pay compensation for this. And, I think in addition to the 
compensation thats already been paid, an additional £4,000 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances and reflects the very significant disruption, trouble and 
inconvenience which will undoubtedly be caused to Mrs S and Mr S.       
So, subject to any further comments from Mrs S and Mr S or Aviva, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. 
Following my provisional decision, Aviva replied to say they agree with the recommendation. 
Mrs S and Mr S replied with further queries which have been put to Aviva. Ive set these out 
below together with Avivas response. Mrs S and Mr S refer to the schedule of works provided by Aviva and query what the price is 
for each description. Aviva say they arent able to provide a full price breakdown as this is 
composed upon agreed working rates and costs for their own suppliers to complete so its 
commercially sensitive. They say, in respect of the claim settlement, their terms are that 
cash will be paid at their suppliers costs. 
Mrs S and Mr S say they havent been quoted for the removal and refitting of a new 
staircase. Aviva say the evidence shows the basement installation was neither fully 
waterproof or compliant with any relevant standards at the time of its installation. They say, 
in particular, they note that the base of the staircase was subject to rot due to apparent long 
term water penetration. Aviva say, although looking to base their settlement on works to 
indemnify Mrs S and Mr S for loss, they are also not looking to put them back into a superior 
position prior to the incident, with a full waterproofing system where this did not exist 
previously. They say, referring to their surveyors report, a repair is achievable by removal of 
the floor screed and removal of the underfloor heating system. They say this would not 
safeguard against future issues with the water table, but they believe this is beyond the 
scope of their liability considering that the original installation was inadequate.
I can see Mrs S and Mr S note they havent been quoted for the carpet for their stairs, of 
which a part of, had been ripped out by Avivas agent because it was soaked. Aviva say they 
have reviewed their suppliers reports and do agree their agent had stated that the stairs 
carpet should be replaced. Aviva have offered their approved carpet suppliers to inspect, 
value and offer either their services to replace in due course or the cash equivalent that they 
would invoice Aviva. Aviva have asked Mrs S and Mr S to confirm if their appointment would 
be acceptable to deal with this aspect.
Mrs S and Mr S say they think Aviva have quoted for underfloor heating but theyre not 
entirely sure. Aviva say a fair provision has been allowed for this based upon typical market 
values as achievable by their suppliers, to replace underfloor heating pipework excluding 
replacement of undamaged controls.
Mrs S and Mr S say they have Karndean flooring in the office, hallway, toilet and 
kitchen/diner. They say it costs approximately £26 per sqm but theyre being quoted just £15 
per sqm. Aviva say they have scheduled this flooring using laminate line items rather than 
vinyl. They say the principle being similar in that this is a finished floor covering and has 
been advised to them by their own contractors at the cost they could complete. They say, 
with regard to the particular product, although this is referred to as Karndean they have no 
evidence to support that it is a product of this brand, and they have been assured that their 
building contractors can source a high-quality plank vinyl for around £15 + VAT per m2. 
They say this is the cost that they would purchase for and may be considered more of a 
trade cost rather than retail as quoted by Mrs S and Mr S. They have confirmed they would 
always review this should evidence be submitted of a superior product.
I can see Mrs S and Mr S say, in relation to storage and the temporary kitchen, they are 
being quoted £3,000 for both for seven weeks work. They have provided email quotes from 
two companies; one states 14-16 weeks and the other 10-12 weeks to complete the work. 
They say this is an average of 13 weeks meaning the cost for the kitchen (from the same 
company Aviva will be using) is £5,928 including VAT. Storage at 13 weeks would be £513 
plus the cost of picking up and delivering the items to storage and bringing them back.
Aviva say they have based their allowance on a reasonable timescale to complete the works 
scheduled. They say this may not align with the works desired should this extend to be a full 
managed waterproofing system. They say they have quoted the figures supplied to them by 
a kitchen company of £3,000 including VAT for 50 days. They say they have also allowed 
£442.80 for taking items into storage and return. Aviva say this is based upon a basic net cost of £300 that would be charged to them, this being marked up by their organising 
contractor and VAT applied. Aviva say it appears that the main discrepancy here is the 
duration of works. They say, from their estimates, they believe the total work to be around 
660 hours, however bearing in mind that multiple persons would be working on site 
simultaneously so therefore the overall duration would be far less. Aviva say they do 
acknowledge that it may appear insufficient time has been allowed for the floor screed to 
cure and dry, however this in itself would not impede habitability of the basement, installation 
of kitchen etc, upon which they would grant temporary facilities.
Mrs S and Mr S say almost all doors are flood damaged, and it doesnt appear from the 
schedule of works that Aviva are paying to replace these. Aviva say their suppliers didnt 
identify a requirement to replace any doors only redecorate. They say should substantiation 
be submitted for the requirement to replace, then they would accept.
Mrs S and Mr S say the utility room has granite floor tiles and fitted units that will need taking 
out. The tiles will need to be replaced as they cant physically be removed without getting 
smashed, so they would require the cost for new tiles and fitting. They say they will also 
require the units to be refitted. Aviva agree that this is an oversight on their part as no works 
were initially provisioned for this area. They have revised the schedule of works which 
assumes that the worktop will be retained for refitting along with the base unit.
I note Mrs S and Mr S say, in the kitchen they have been quoted £130 for laminate worktops, 
but they have composite worktops costing around £480 per three metre run. They also say 
the tiles are to be re-fitted and question how tiles can be removed without being broken. 
They say these cost approximately £25 per sqm and they have five sqm plus they would 
need fitting. Aviva say, at this time they have only applied a typical cost for laminated 
chipboard 38mm worktops and following subsequent review they agree that from their 
photos these may indeed be a superior product. Aviva have asked Mrs S and Mr S to submit 
their basis of their valuation for Avivas consideration. With regard to wall tiling, Aviva say 
they cant immediately foresee that this will suffer irreparable damage in careful removal of 
the kitchen and worktop. They say they have allowed provision for localised re-fixing if 
required. They say, should it transpire that unavoidable damage is incurred then they may 
consider further if a match to existing tiling could not be obtained.
Mrs S and Mr S say they dont want to get into having all the work done and then be down 
even more than they already are. They say theyre being told from the other quotes that the 
costs are in the region of £70,000 to £90,000. They say this seems to contradict the £30,000 
Aviva want to settle for. They say they have the price for the tanking which is around 
£11,000 which means they will need to find an extra £40,000. They say they know there are 
some work quotes for items they wont need but theyre still tens of thousands of pounds 
apart. 
Aviva say Mrs S and Mr S had expressed that their decision is to have a full water 
management system together with a full tanking system throughout the entire basement 
level of their property. Aviva say the quotes that Mrs S and Mr S are now obtaining are for a 
fully integrated waterproofing system and clearly indicative of a large degree of betterment 
beyond the scope of insurers liability and reflective of a host of pre-existing conditions.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
I think Aviva have taken a fair and reasonable approach in their responses to Mrs S and Mr 
Ss further queries. Mrs S and Mr S will need to let Aviva know whether they accept their 
proposal for the carpet for the stairs. And they will need to send any evidence to Aviva in 
relation to the Karndean flooring and replacement doors. They will also need to send the 
evidence requested by Aviva in relation to the kitchen worktops. And, I think the position they 
have taken in relation to the staircase is reasonable given their concerns about there being 
long term water penetration. I would however say that, I havent seen any evidence from Mrs 
S and Mr S which shows the damage to the staircase was as a result of the water ingress 
caused by Avivas agents error rather than the original flood or long term water penetration. 
If however, Mrs S and Mr S are able to provide Aviva with evidence which supports their 
view that it was caused by the water ingress following Avivas agents error, then Aviva 
should consider this.  
In relation to the work to the utility room, Aviva say they have now factored this in. And, I 
think this is reasonable. I also think Avivas position in relation to the duration of the works, 
and the storage and temporary kitchen, is reasonable. Mrs S and Mr Ss quotes will 
understandably set out a longer duration as it includes more work  which hasnt been 
factored into Avivas schedule. So, given that the additional work isnt something Aviva is 
responsible for, I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to estimate a timescale which factors 
in the works which they wouldve been responsible for had they been carrying out the work. 
I do understand Mrs S and Mr Ss point about the difference in price between Avivas quote 
and the quotes they have obtained. But, this is very much down to Mrs S and Mr Ss 
decision to have a fully integrated waterproofing system together with a full tanking system 
throughout the entire basement level of their property. I can understand why they have 
chosen this as it provides them with reassurance of a lasting and effective repair and also a 
system which conforms to relevant industry standards. But, given that its Avivas agents 
error Im asking them to put right, its not unfair or unreasonable for them to put Mrs S and 
Mr S back in the same position they were in. And, in this case, that means a cash settlement 
which takes into account replacement of the existing DPM. 
  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Avivas agent made an error and this has led to the problem which 
Mrs S and Mr S are experiencing. Aviva should therefore pay a cash settlement which 
factors in all the necessary works including replacement DPM to the whole basement. This 
should also include replacement possessions on a like for like basis. Aviva should take any 
necessary action as agreed in line with their responses to Mrs S and Mr Ss further queries. 
Aviva should also pay compensation of £4,000 to Mrs S and Mr S.  
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. Aviva 
Insurance Limited must: 
Pay Mrs S and Mr S a cash settlement in line with their schedule of works; and
Pay compensation of £4,000 for disruption, trouble and inconvenience.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Paviter DhaddyOmbudsman