DRN-3442459
The complaint
Mr T complains that Grove Pension Solutions Limited (GPS) mis-advised him to transfer his
deferred Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits into a personal pension in order to
release funds.
Mr T is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading I will refer to Mr T 
throughout my decision.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr T was in contact with GPS to discuss the option of releasing tax free 
cash (TFC) from his pension. 
On 2 January 2019 GPS completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ts 
circumstances and objectives. The information gathered showed:
Mr T was 60 years old and widowed 
He had 3 children none of which were of dependent age
He was self-employed earning around £2,100 monthly but this varied due to his 
occupation and more quiet times 
He was under pressure financially with outstanding credit card debt and needed to 
purchase a reliable new business vehicle costing approximately £12,000
His OPS had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around £69,500 which 
would provide TFC of £16,118 and an annual income of £2,417 when he reached 
age 62
GPS also carried out an assessment of Mr Ts attitude to risk (ATR), which it deemed to be 
Medium. 
On 20 March 2019 GPS wrote to Mr T advising him not to transfer out of his OPS scheme. 
The first paragraph of the letter stated:
I am writing to confirm my recommendation not to transfer the pension at this time. The 
advice is based on the information we have been provided about you and your pension 
scheme. The enclosed suitability report details the key considerations in this advice and is a 
summary of the analysis that we have carried out
The letter also contained a suitability report that detailed the findings that had been made by 
GPS.
The report started by reiterating the information gathered during the fact find and went on to 
highlight Mr Ts three main objectives which were found to be:
 Have pension in a different format than the scheme provides
  Have control of pension benefits
  Have flexibility of taking benefits from age 55 onwards
GPS advised Mr T not to transfer out of his OPS pension. In summary it said Mr Ts pension 
benefits available just two years later at the age of 62 were guaranteed and not dependent 
on investment performance. At age 62 Mr T would be able to release over £16,000 TFC and 
receive substantially more monthly income than if he released TFC at the time of the advice.
GPS also explained that the critical yield required to match the benefits offered by Mr Ts 
OPS was 39.93% it stated:
Since this would be 39.93% per year you are likely to lose a significant amount of money by 
transferring the pension.
GPS also calculated a transfer value comparator (TVC) that for Mr T to receive equivalent 
benefits transferring his pension into risk-free government bonds he would need to invest 
£157,000. More than double the value of his pension fund at the time.
The report also explained that Mr T could take early retirement from the scheme immediately 
to access TFC of £8,050 and £100 each month guaranteed. But this benefit was again 
substantially less than Mr T would have been entitled to at age 62.
After detailing the reasons why GPS was advising Mr T against transferring his pension it 
stated in bold print:
In view of these risks my recommendation has to be to leave the pension to age 62 
or review this pension at a later date.
On 9 June 2019, three months after receiving the suitability report Mr T sent an email to 
GPS. It stated:
I am a self-employed (occupation) of 43yrs experience and 3 yrs ago I lost my wife, I am 
finding it really difficult to keep my finances on an even keel, what is adding problems to my 
situation is that my only vehicle which is a work van is on its last legs and I fear its not 
economical to fix and I certainly cannot afford another, the only trouble is I need a 
dependable vehicle for my line of work which travel time could be an hour or more.
I understand I am going against the good advice given to me which was to wait till I am 62 
but I don't have much of a choice, I am still fit and able to do my job, and I would like to carry 
on, but I fear that if I don't act on this now then I may not be able to continue my job In its full 
capacity, so I have decided to cash in my pension and take the full 25% so if you could 
process that for me at your earliest convenience I would very much appreciate it.
Please contact me ASAP with any further information. 
In response to this request from Mr T to transfer his pension outside of its advice GPS 
recommended a flexi access drawdown that allowed Mr T to take the TFC he required. The 
transfer was then carried out in line with Mr Ts request.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ts complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that Mr T was advised of the option to retire from his pension early releasing TFC 
and taking a monthly amount, but that overall the advice was for Mr T to keep his pension 
where it was. 
Mr T had requested the transfer against GPSs advice, and it wouldnt be fair to hold it 
responsible for any losses incurred by Mr T.Mr T didnt agree he said other alternative options of raising the funds he required such as a 
loan, family support, equity release and downsizing. Mr T also said that GPS made it too 
easy for him to take the insistent client route to transferring his pension and releasing TFC.
As Mr T didnt agree this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator.
Since 2018, COBS 9.5A includes additional guidance on insistent clients. It sets out three key steps 
for advisers to take.
1) Where a firm proceeds to execute a transaction for an insistent client which is not in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by the firm, the firm should 
communicate to the insistent client, in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading, and 
having regard to the information needs of the insistent client so that the client is able to 
understand, the information set out in (2).
2) The information which the firm should communicate to the insistent client is:
a) that the firm has not recommended the transaction and that it will not be in 
accordance with the firms personal recommendation;
b) the reasons why the transaction will not be in accordance with the firms personal 
recommendation;
c) the risks of the transaction proposed by the insistent client; and
d) the reasons why the firm did not recommend that transaction to the client.
Acknowledgement from the insistent client - COBS 9.5A.4
(1) The firm should obtain from the insistent client an acknowledgement that:
(i) the transaction is not in accordance with the firms personal recommendation; and
(ii) the transaction is being carried out at the request of the client.
(2) Where possible, the acknowledgment should be in the clients own words.
As explained above, GPS completed a fact find about Mr T which recorded his objectives and 
circumstances at the time of the advice. Following the fact find GPS wrote to Mr T outlining its 
advice and included a suitability report.
The letter sent to Mr T that accompanied the suitability report on 20 March 2019 made it clear that 
GPS is advising Mr T not to transfer his pension. The letter does not give Mr T an option to go against 
the advice or promote a service to help with such a transfer.
 The suitability report looked at the critical yield which was found to be 39.93% and the TVC 
which was found to be more than double Mr Ts fund value. Based on these figures GPS 
found it was not financially viable for Mr T to transfer his pension away from the OPS.
The report did look at an alternative way of raising TFC from Mr Ts pension, namely retiring 
from the OPS scheme immediately. But as explained above it found that the best option for 
Mr T was to wait until he was 62 years old when he could access both more TFC, and a 
higher monthly pension.
While other options may have been available to Mr T to raise funds, I would expect GPS to 
have considered those appropriate to the information it had gathered. It is noted that Mr T 
was concerned about the financial burdens he already had and wanted to reduce his 
outgoings as being a self-employed person meant his monthly income fluctuated. 
Considering, at the time the information was gathered Mr T had a relatively low mortgage 
payment and small credit card debt, but still felt this burden I think it is unlikely he would 
have considered taking further borrowing. I am therefore not persuaded exploring the 
options of taking on further debt was necessary, or that it would have discouraged Mr T from 
transferring his pension. 
After clearly explaining it was not financially viable for Mr T to transfer his pension, and 
outlining the risks of doing so, such as losing guaranteed benefits and a reduced income. 
GPDS also made its recommendation clear again. It stated:  
In view of these risks my recommendation has to be to leave the pension to age 62 
or review this pension at a later date.
Three months later in June 2019 Mr T responded to the recommendation sent to him by 
GPS by email. In summary Mr T explained that he was struggling financially and needed to 
buy a new work vehicle as his current vehicle was on its last legs. He further explained that 
he was aware the decision to transfer his pension to release TFC was against the advice 
GPS had provided to him but that he wanted GPS to arrange the transfer anyway.
I am satisfied the Mr T wrote the email himself explaining his circumstances, and that he 
understood he was going against professional advice.
Overall I am persuaded that GPS worked within the rules applicable at the time it advised Mr 
T about his pension transfer and acted reasonably by treating Mr T as an insistent client 
when he explained he wanted to continue with the transfer of his pension against the advice 
he had been given.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman