DRN-3821400
The complaint
Mr J complains that IGo4 Ltd cancelled his motor insurance policy when he didnt install a 
new telematics device in time. Hes also unhappy with its level of service and breaches of his 
data privacy. 
What happened
Mr J called IGo4 to change his address, but only a partial address was recorded. IGo4 sent 
Mr J a confirmation email and new documents with the incorrect address. But he couldnt 
access these online. IGo4 then sent the new telematics device to the wrong address. Mr J 
said he didnt receive this until six days after it had been sent. IGo4 cancelled the policy and 
applied a cancellation charge as it said Mr J hadnt installed the device within the required 
time. Mr J was unhappy with this and that a neighbour had opened his post. 
our investigators view
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was likely 
that Mr J hadnt received the device until the date he had stated as the address was 
incomplete. He thought Mr J wanted the policy and knew it would be cancelled if the device 
wasnt installed. So he saw no reason why Mr J would delay this. He also saw that post was 
still delivered to an incorrect address after this had been corrected. He recommended that 
IGo4 should remove any cancellation markers, refund the cancellation fee and pay Mr J 
£250 compensation in addition to all other offers for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr J thought compensation should be more as the policy had cancelled before the year was 
completed, so he lost a years No Claims Discount (NCD). IGo4 replied that it thought the 
evidence showed that Mr J had received the box before cancellation. It thought Mr J would 
have contacted it earlier if he hadnt received the device.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J 
and to IGo4 on 28 October 2022. I summarise my findings:
I could see that Mr J had raised a previous complaint with IGo4. But I didnt consider that 
here as it was a separate issue that had already had a response from this service. Instead I 
focussed on the cancellation of Mr Js policy and the level of service hed received from 
IGo4.
I saw photographs of the package sent to Mr J and I thought it was agreed that the address 
on it wasnt complete as it wasnt directed to Mr Js flat but to the block he lives in. I was 
satisfied that Mr J provided his correct address to IGo4 when he called it, but it recorded it 
incorrectly. I could see that Mr J subsequently provided his correct address in an email to 
IGo4, but it missed the opportunity to correct this. 
Mr J received a failed delivery email from Royal Mail. Mr J then contacted Royal Mail about 
the missed delivery. He arranged for the parcel to be delivered the following day. IGo4 
thought he would also have discussed the correct address with Royal Mail. But I couldnt see 
that Mr J then knew that the address on IGo4s system was incorrect. And Royal Mails 
online system wouldnt allow him to change this in any case. 
This meant that the device was delivered the next day, as confirmed by a notice on Royal 
Mails system, but to Mr Js communal block rather than to his flat. I could see that the 
delivery photograph didnt have a door number and the delivery wasnt signed for. So I was 
satisfied that the device wasnt delivered to Mr J as it should have been. 
So Mr J waited in all day for no purpose. I didnt know where the device went then. Mr J said 
he didnt again contact IGo4 to raise a further concern due to its limited contact hours. I 
thought he could again have emailed IGo4 as he knew the policy would cancel unless the 
device was installed in time. But, unfortunately, he didnt. And, in any case, his previous 
email had gone unanswered. So I thought Mr J may reasonably not have had confidence 
that his emails were being received. 
And so Mr J didnt receive the device to complete the installation and avoid the cancellation 
of his policy. I didnt know when Mr J actually received the device. IGo4 said Mr J had said in 
an email that he had the device 24 hours before cancellation. IGo4 thought this still gave him 
time to install the device as it just attached to a window. 
But I didnt think that was fair or reasonable. I could see that Mr J emailed IGo4 the day after 
the policy had cancelled to say that he had only just received the device the previous day. 
And he explained that his partner was away with the car at the time and so he couldnt 
attach the device. 
IGo4 thought it had correctly cancelled the policy as Mr J hadnt installed the device within 
the required time. But I was satisfied that this was unfair. This was because I think IGo4 had 
made the error of not recording Mr Js address correctly. Letters sent by IGo4 to Mr J before 
the cancellation were returned undelivered, but I hadnt seen that it queried this with him.
I was satisfied that Mr J wanted his policy in place. And I didnt think it was plausible that he 
purposefully didnt install the device when he clearly knew that not doing so would lead to 
cancellation. 
It was unfortunate that Mr J didnt again contact IGo4 when the device hadnt arrived. But he 
had rearranged delivery with Royal Mail and didnt receive a further email that the delivery 
had been unsuccessful. And he emailed IGo4 to check that his address had been correctly 
recorded. So I was satisfied that IGo4 unfairly cancelled Mr Js policy. 
When a business makes a mistake, as I was satisfied IGo4 had done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Our Investigator recommended that IGo4 should remove records of the cancellation and 
refund the cancellation fee. But I thought IGo4 should also provide Mr J with a letter 
confirming that the policy was cancelled in error so that he could ask his new insurer to 
rerate his new policy. The Investigator thought IGo4 should pay Mr J £250 compensation. I 
thought this recognised the trouble and upset caused. But I didnt think this went far enough 
in the circumstances. 
This was because the cancellation of the policy after nine months meant that Mr J didnt earn 
a further years NCD and this would cause him a loss. So I thought IGo4 should compensate 
him for this. Mr J thought this would affect him for years. But I couldnt say what would 
happen in future years. And so I thought £250, in addition to the above, was reasonable 
compensation for this loss.
Mr J was also concerned about breaches of his data privacy. But I couldnt see that IGo4 
was responsible for a neighbour opening post addressed to Mr J. And, in any case, I hadnt 
seen evidence that this caused Mr J any loss. As our Investigator had already said, this may 
be a matter Mr J would like to raise with the Information Commissioners Office. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr J or IGo4, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J replied that he accepted my provisional decision. IGo4 replied that it disagreed, but it 
didnt provide any additional evidence for me to consider. So I can see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require IGo4 Ltd to do the following: 
1. Remove any external cancellation markers so that Mr J no longer needs to declare the 
cancellation and provide Mr J with a letter confirming that the policy was cancelled in 
error.
2. Refund the £75 cancellation fee. 
3. Pay Mr J £500 further in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and 
for the loss of a years NCD.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require IGo4 
Ltd to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman