DRN-2513280
The complaint
In 2014 Ms C invested almost £30,000 into the Oxford Capital Infrastructure Enterprise 
Investment Scheme (the EIS), run by Oxford Capital Partners LLP (OCP). She says the 
investment was mis-sold to her and she seeks a refund of the capital she invested. OCP 
disputes the complaint.
What happened
Ms C provided detailed submissions about her complaint. In the main, she says:
Her investment was based on independent financial advice  from a third party  and 
on reliance upon the 2014 Information Memorandum (IM) issued by OCP for the 
EIS. The IM was misleading and OCP behaved in breach of it after her investment.
The independent financial advice she received was clear on the risks of the EIS 
investment. She also understood from the advice that the purpose behind the 
government backed EIS scheme was/is to give small established companies a 
means by which to raise capital required to support their early stage 
growth/expansion. In addition, the IM gave the assurance that only asset backed 
investments would be made, whereby the companies selected for investment will be 
those which own and operate real assets.
In practice  and subsequent to her investment  she discovered that OCP 
committed grave breaches in its conduct and management of the EIS; and, overall, it 
has pursued its own interests at the expense of, and in conflict with, hers.
Her investment was split between three companies  Lyford Power Limited (LPL), 
Camel Power Limited (CPL) and Derwent Power Limited (DPL). She found that 
OCP conducted itself in breach of HMRCs Control and Independence 
Requirements  under its 2016 and 2018 (updated) Venture Capital Scheme Manual 
 by failing to meet the requisite independence test. The directorships and loan 
arrangements for LPL, CPL and DPL (and their subsidiaries) featured conflicts of 
interests related to OCP. The effect was that, contrary to requirements, OCP 
effectively set up and controlled all three companies, it exploited its charges/fees in 
the process, the companies did not qualify as EIS schemes and it lacked the 
independence in the investments that it was supposed to have. [issue 1]
In addition, and with specific regard to LPL and its subsidiary, financial records show 
a questionable loan arrangement with a third party (and conflicted interests in the 
arrangement) and show that LPL was destined to fail from the outset. [issue 2]
In addition, and contrary to the contents of the IM, her money was invested in 
companies which did not own real tangible assets at the time of investing. [issue 3]
She would never have invested in the EIS if she knew of the above issues.
Ms C has reported her allegations against OCP, inclusive of an overarching allegation of 
fraud, to HMRC. She says HMRC has initiated an investigation and that she has been 
interviewed in the course of that investigation.
OCP refutes all allegations. Its position on issue 1 is mainly that it has shown that all fees 
and charges it applied were appropriate and were as expressed in the IM and that the other 
allegations are defeated by the fact that all three companies  inclusive of the arrangements 
within and related to them  were approved by HMRC as qualifying under the EIS scheme 
and the EIS certificates (which confirmed this) Mr C received for them reflected that. It says 
the complaint in issue 2 is also defeated by the terms set out in the IM (including the 
possibility of debt financing and, in terms of conflict of interests, the possibility of OCP funds 
being invested alongside the EIS investments), by the fact that there were no common 
directors between LPL and the third party creditor and by the fact that debt financing was 
needed for LPL beyond the £5 million maximum limit on equity funding through the EIS 
scheme. 
OCP says the complaint in issue 3 is not supported by the facts, given that all three 
companies were approved under the EIS scheme and they all met the criteria set out in the 
IM; and that criteria made clear that investments could be made in companies that either 
own or are in the development stages of owning assets.
OCP has acknowledged Ms Cs disappointment with the performance of her EIS investment. 
It refutes responsibility for this, but it has shared its views about the factors that have 
affected performance. It also highlights that where Ms C alleges that it acted against her 
interests through its representation and influence in the Board of Directors of the invested 
companies, the opposite was the truth and it was for the interests of investors that OCP used 
that influence and representation.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. Her main findings were as follows:
It is beyond this services remit to address matters of alleged fraud, so she will not do 
so. Such matters are suited for treatment by the police and the courts, but not by this 
service. Ms C has presented her allegation in this respect to HMRC and it is being 
investigated by HMRC. 
A similar finding applies to the matter of performance of Ms Cs EIS investment(s). 
This service would not usually address complaints about performance in isolation, so 
she will not do so. 
Again, a similar finding applies to the allegations that have been made about how the 
EIS invested companies were chosen by OCP, the allegations about how they were 
set up and the allegations about OCPs charges/fees. This service would not 
normally prescribe the decisions that should have been taken in those respects. 
Instead, we can address the issues related to OCPs promotion and management of 
the EIS investment(s) with regards to Ms Cs overall allegation that she was misled 
into it.
As OCP says, the allegation that the invested companies did not qualify for the EIS 
scheme is defeated by the fact that they all received HMRC approval for the scheme 
 HMRC was best placed to determine their qualification for the scheme and it did so.
In terms of the allegation about conflicts of interests, the IM expressly made clear the 
potential for such conflicts and gave notice about OCPs policy for managing them. 
These provisions were enough to ensure Ms C made an informed decision about her 
investment.
Evidence supports OCPs position on issue 3.
Ms C acknowledged this services position on the fraud and performance allegations  
essentially issues 1 and 2  and said her revised focus is on issue 3. She retains her claim 
under issue 3 and has presented detailed submissions elaborating upon it and explaining 
her disagreement with the investigators findings on it. Ms C asked for an ombudsmans 
decision and the matter was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for 
broadly similar reasons. I do not uphold Ms Cs complaint. It appears that she has conceded 
her positions  in the context of her complaint to this service  on the fraud allegation, the 
performance matter and issues 1 and 2, in order to focus on and to continue to pursue issue 
3. However, for the sake of completeness and in the event that this appearance is incorrect, 
I address all matters below.
Issue 1 and the Fraud Allegation
As the investigator said, the dedicated treatment of fraud allegations is beyond this 
services remit. Such matters are for the police and courts to address. In Ms Cs case, her 
allegation has been presented to HMRC, which is another entity with powers to address 
fraud allegations (those within its remit) and which, we are informed, is already in the course 
of investigating it. For these reasons, I do not address Ms Cs allegation of fraud.
The same applies to the main matters summarised under issue 1 above  the allegations 
that OCP breached HMRCs Control and Independence Requirements and that the 
companies Ms Cs EIS investment was split into did not qualify as EIS schemes. These are 
clearly allegations for treatment by HMRC and they too have been presented by Ms C to its 
ongoing investigation. As far as this service is concerned, there is evidence that the three 
companies were approved by HMRC at the relevant time, so it follows that both allegations 
fall away. If HMRCs investigation into Ms Cs allegations means those approvals are to be 
reviewed and if both these allegations are to be part of such a review, those are matters for 
HMRC and not for this service.
With regards to OCPs charges/fees, I have not seen evidence that they were applied in 
amounts or in ways that conflicted with the information within the IM (or in the Investment 
Management Agreement), so I do not conclude that Ms C was misled in this respect.
Issue 2 and Performance
I refer again to the investigators findings, in particular her quotation of the IMs contents on 
conflict of interests. I do not consider it necessary to repeat the quotes, as both parties are 
aware of what they say. In a nutshell, they gave notice of potential for conflicts of interests, 
summarised examples of how such conflicts could arise and referred to OCPs policy for 
managing such conflicts.
It is not uncommon for firms to sometimes have conflicts of interests in their operations. 
What is important is that they declare such conflicts and have in place measures to detect 
and manage them when they arise. This happened in Ms Cs case. The IM gave her notice 
of the potential for such conflicts and it referred her to the policy for manging them. I also 
note contents in the Our Governance sub-section of the IM which gave further examples of 
potential conflicts of interests and reference to OCPs policy for managing them.
I appreciate Ms C stands firmly by her argument that OCP controlled LPL, but the fact 
remains that LPL was/is a distinct commercial entity with its own corporate responsibility. 
LPL is not the respondent to her complaint, OCP is. This means I lack a basis to address the 
concerns or criticisms she has about the loan arrangement between LPL and the third party 
she mentioned. They relate to LPLs conduct. Otherwise and in as far as this matter relates 
to the allegations that OCP was not independent as it should have been under the HMRC 
requirements and that its alleged role in this loan arrangement illustrated that, my findings in 
the sub-section above apply. As the investigator said, this service does not normally address complaints about 
performance in isolation. In the absence of evidence that performance was guaranteed, the 
implication arising from an investment is that the investor takes a chance with regards to 
performance. To Ms Cs credit, her submissions have been very clear about her awareness 
of the high risks in the EIS investment and she does not say or suggest she expected 
anything different. There is no evidence that performance was guaranteed in the investment, 
so there is no basis to address the performance of her investment in isolation.
An alternative is to consider whether (or not) a firm with management responsibilities has 
mismanaged an investment, with a direct consequence to the investments performance. I 
do not consider that this has been established in Ms Cs case  and it is not quite clear that 
this, specifically, has even been alleged. OCPs role was to manage Ms Cs EIS investment 
and both parties would have shared the hope that despite its inherent risks, the targeted 
level of performance would be met. OCP has shared its views on the factors that affected 
performance  broadly related to commercial problems in the alternative energy sector that 
the three companies operated in and problems arising from regulatory and political 
developments in that sector. 
On balance, I consider its views to be sincere and plausible, and the same applies to its 
confirmation that, though it bears no responsibility in the matter, it shares Ms Cs 
disappointment with the performance of the companies. I am also mindful, as mentioned 
above, that each company retained corporate responsibility for its conduct so the same 
limitation I noted above would arguably apply to the matter of alleged mismanagement. 
Overall and on balance, I do not consider there is evidence to support an allegation that the 
performance of LPL (or any of the other two companies) was adversely affected by OCPs 
mismanagement. 
Issue 3
Ms C invested considerable, and commendable, effort in trying to persuade the investigator 
that this issue is established by evidence and that it should be upheld. I accept that the 
position she has presented is one she sincerely holds. She appears to genuinely believe that 
her money should have been used only for investment in companies that have tangible 
assets  which she also appears to have believed would provide a form of security for her 
investment  and that those companies should have used the investment to expand those 
assets and their operations.
Ms C has quoted many parts of the IM in support of her position. I give assurance that I have 
read them all and I accept that they are all accurate quotations. 
Irrespective of Ms Cs beliefs, the task before me is to consider whether (or not) the totality 
of the IM misled her in terms of the types of companies her money would be invested in. 
It cannot be ignored that OCP did not advise Ms C, she received advice separately from an 
independent financial adviser. The implication is that, in addition to the IM, the reasoned 
recommendation she received from that adviser about the merits (and/or otherwise) of the 
EIS investment would also have informed and influenced her overall view and expectations 
from the investment. OCP did not give and is not responsible for that advice, but it is 
responsible for the IM, hence the need to consider issue 3 on the basis of all the relevant 
parts of the IM.
The parts of the IM that Ms C has quoted are relevant, but so are the following:Under the sub-section What We Invest In   we aim to invest in companies 
which develop or own assets  [my emphasis]
Under the sub-section How We Invest  Our infrastructure investment team has 
built strong working relationships with asset suppliers, developers, installers and 
maintenance companies  [my emphasis]
Under the sub-section Development Risks  The Oxford Capital Infrastructure EIS 
invests in companies at different stages of maturity, ranging from companies that are 
yet to purchase or install their infrastructure assets, to companies that are already 
operating assets and generating revenues. [my emphasis]
The above shows that the IM informed potential investors that investments were not limited 
only to companies with tangible assets and that investments could also be made into 
companies who were in the process of developing such assets and/or those who were  
yet to purchase  such assets. OCPs representations to us have highlighted other 
contents of the IM that convey the same message, but I consider the above examples  and 
especially the third quote  sufficient. 
There must be a reason(s) why Ms C has formed the view that her investment should have 
been restricted to companies with tangible assets, but I am satisfied that the contents of 
OCPs IM was not part of that reason(s). The IM presented the possibilities and options as 
quoted above. I appreciate that it also presented the contents that Ms C has quoted and that 
those contents refer to companies with assets, but the IM would have been considered by 
her (and her adviser) as a whole, so it should be viewed as a whole. In this context, the IM 
informed her that investment could also be made in companies yet to secure their assets. 
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded to uphold issue 3.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman