DRN-2719758
The complaint
Mr B complains that Studio Retail Limited should have applied a default against him sooner 
than it did. Mr B wants Studio to backdate the default.  
What happened.
Mr B held a credit account with Studio. After he didnt make any payments against the
account, Studio sent Mr B a notice of default in February 2018.
Mr B told Studio that he was living on benefits, so it sent him an income and expenditure
form. Mr B returned the form, but Studio asked Mr B for further information. In the meantime,
Studio placed Mr Bs account on a long term hold to give him time to reply.
In late 2018, Mr B complained about the Studio account to one of the credit reference
agencies. Studio investigated and saw that Mr B hadnt responded to its request for more
information.
Studio then went through the process to default Mr Bs account in early 2019.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint be upheld. She agreed that we
would normally expect to see the lender apply the default to a customers credit file in line 
with the default notice. But that in the case of Mr B, hed contacted Studio in January 2018 to 
ask how much he needed to pay to bring the account up to date. The investigator thought 
that Studio had treated Mr B positively and sympathetically by giving him more time.
Mr B was unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He said he didnt contact Studio 
after it issued the default notice. Mr B didnt think that Studio should have gone on to sell his 
account to be defaulted later.
After considering Mr Bs complaint I was minded to uphold it so I issued a provisional 
decision on 18 February 2021.
In summary I could understand why Studio delayed applying the default with the intention of 
helping Mr B. However, I thought that if Studio was going to do this, it shouldve taken more 
steps to try and reach an agreement with Mr B. Instead, aside from sending out statements 
to Mr B, Studio didnt take any steps to follow up until Mr B complained to one of the credit 
reference agencies towards the end of 2018.
I considered the fairest way to resolve Mr Bs complaint was to ask Studio to amend the 
default date to 28 days after the date of the notice sent in February 2018. I also intended to 
require Studio to pay Mr B £100 compensation.
As Studio had sold Mr Bs account to a third-party debt collection business which I will call 
company D, I also said that Studio should take whatever steps are necessary to make sure 
that the default was correctly reported on Mr Bs credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio has confirmed that it agrees with my provisional decision. Mr B says he accepts my 
decision but has asked that I require Studio to contact all the credit reference agencies 
(CRAs) and log a sold entry for the debt with the correct default date.
When Mr B originally brought his complaint to this service, it was split in to two separate 
complaints  one against Studio and another against D. Mr Bs complaint against D wasnt 
upheld.
Mr B is unhappy that this service split his complaint in two and didnt order D to change the 
default. Mr B is concerned that he could be left in the situation where Studio does what Ive 
asked but D leaves the default on his credit file. So, Mr B also wants me to require D to take 
steps to amend his credit file.
Some of the concerns that Mr B has expressed relate to the way this service has handled his 
complaints about Studio and D. I dont consider its appropriate for me to comment further on 
these, but I want to reassure Mr B that Ive taken account of everything he has told me in 
response to my provisional decision.
In my final decision, I can only require Studio and not D to take steps to put things right. I 
also cant interfere in the decision the ombudsman made in Mr Bs complaint about D. 
However, as I said in my provisional decision, I expect Studio to take whatever steps are 
necessary to make sure the default is correctly reported on Mr Bs credit file. This means 
that Studio will need to ensure the default that shouldve been reported 28 days after the 
default notice in February 2018, is not then somehow reported again by D. It might be that to 
make this happen, Studio will need to buy the debt back from D, but Ive left this up to Studio 
to work out with D. To make things simple, Ive given the new correct date for the default in 
my directions below.
Mr B would like me to tell Studio which CRAs it must update. I understand why but I dont 
consider that I can specify exactly which ones this should involve. I expect Studio to update 
the default date with any of the CRAs that it reports to. As Im requiring Studio to do 
whatever is necessary to ensure the date of default is reported correctly, I expect it to make 
sure that any entries that D reported about the debt are also corrected. I hope that this gives 
Mr B some reassurance.
Finally, Mr B wants Studio to pay him the compensation by cheque. I dont see why this cant 
be done if Mr B accepts my final decision.
Putting things right
To put things right, Studio Retail Limited should:
1. Backdate the default date for Mr Bs account to 7 March 2018 taking whatever steps 
might be necessary to ensure that the amended default date is correctly reported on 
Mr Bs credit file;
2. Pay Mr B £100 compensation My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Studio to 
take the steps outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman