DRN-4280253
The complaint
Mr B has complained about a fee and the associated interest Tesco Personal Finance PLC  
trading as Tesco Bank  has charged him.
What happened
In May 2023, Mr B used his Tesco Bank credit card account to pay off the balance 
(£5,447.56) of a credit card account he had with another lender.
Tesco Bank treated this as a cash transaction and charged him a cash transaction fee of 
3.99% and interest from the date of the transaction. Mr B says the fee was £217.37 and the 
associated interest was £46.41.
Mr B complained to Tesco Bank and asked it to refund both. When it refused, he referred his 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators didnt think Tesco Bank had done anything wrong.
Mr B disagrees and wants an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says hes never used a credit card account to pay off another before and therefore 
didnt know it would be treated as a cash transaction or that hed be charged a fee and 
interest as a result. He says Tesco Bank didnt contact him by text, email or letter to tell him 
this would happen  and he says that if it had, he would have made alternative 
arrangements. Mr B says hes been a loyal customer of Tesco Bank for almost 20 years and 
promptly repays his balance in full every month.
In its final response, Tesco Bank said it issued a notice of variation to its terms and 
conditions in April 2018  which would have been included with Mr Bs paper statement or 
displayed online, depending on his communication preference  that explained what types of 
transactions would be treated as cash transactions.
Mr B says Tesco Bank hasnt provided evidence to show it sent him the notice of variation 
and, in any event, its unreasonable to expect him to remember what it said when hes never 
made this type of transaction before.
I dont think Tesco Bank has treated Mr B unfairly.
Given the nature of a notice of variation, Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr B would have 
received it in some form  and the terms and conditions make it clear that the type of 
transaction Mr B made would be treated as a cash transaction. While I accept that Mr B 
may not have known this at the time, Tesco Bank wasnt required to warn him in some way 
either before or shortly after he made the payment. And while a bank may choose to refund 
a fee and/or interest for a loyal customer as a gesture of goodwill, I dont think it would be 
fair to tell it to do this when I dont think its done anything wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman