DRN-2070137
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy around the same time as they applied for a further 
advance on their mortgage in 1993. The sale took place in one of the banks branches. The 
policy was in Mr Fs sole name and gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
They paid a monthly amount for it. It covered the repayments of their existing mortgage and 
the further advance.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs F 
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory (as some of it is here), Ive made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. So, on what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time. Mr F has 
provided lots of useful information and commentary. I have reviewed it all carefully. In 
keeping with our nature as an informal dispute resolution service I will comment here only on 
what I feel is material to the outcome of the complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs F say they werent given a real choice as the document was signed in a day, it 
wasnt made clear that the policy was optional. I cant know what was said in the meeting, or 
how the PPI was presented, but Ive looked at the available paperwork. Mr F completed and 
signed a separate PPI application form, answering a number of questions to confirm his 
eligibility. The cost of the PPI was set out separately on this form. And I cant find anything 
on the form that could have reasonably led him to believe the PPI was mandatory. The cost 
was also set out separately on the further advance quote.
Mr F asked why they had £300 of cover when their monthly mortgage payment was only 
around £125. But they were paying £219.27 each month for their mortgage and further 
advance repayments, and associated insurances. And the PPI application form Mr F signed 
shows he also agreed to a level of inflation cover  which was marked as Optional on the 
form. This could have given them up to £400 of cover, but his form shows he applied for 
£300. This suggests to me there was some discussion with the bank, and he understood he 
had choices.
 
I have considered Mr Fs comments carefully, but I also have to take into account how long 
ago the sale was and how that might affect what they recall. Overall, I think its most likely 
Halifax made it clear that the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs F chose to take it out for 
Mr F. 
Halifax recommended the PPI for Mr F to Mr and Mrs F, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him. I know he feels very strongly that he did not need it. And he says Halifax did not 
review his circumstances. I accept his latter point is possible, but what I need to decided is if 
this was detrimental to Mr and Mrs F. And based on what I know of his circumstances at the 
time I dont think that it was as, overall, I think the PPI was suitable. Ill explain why.
Mr F says he was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if he was sick, but 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months for each 
successful accident and sickness claim. 
It also gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover. Mr F says he tried to make a related 
claim that was unsuccessful. But the letter from his employer shows he took voluntary 
redundancy so he wouldnt have been covered. I am aware it may have gone on to be 
compulsory but that doesnt change my finding on this. Mr F also argues that his pension 
would have always covered the repayments, but he was working when he took out the PPI 
and it was his circumstances at the time that were relevant. As they were paying monthly for 
the PPI, Mr F could have cancelled the policy at no further cost if they no longer wanted it, or 
if his circumstances changed  such as when he was no longer working and in receipt of his 
pension. 
Mr F had a with-profits endowment policy and a life assurance policy. But these are different 
products offering different protection. Neither would have helped with their monthly mortgage 
repayments in the same way as PPI. 
 
Mr F also said he had savings, but the PPI would have allowed them to use these to cover 
other living costs whilst he wasnt working, or to save them for their future needs. I note he 
can recall using them for home improvements and to buy a car so its reasonable to 
conclude they may not have always had access to sufficient savings to cover their mortgage 
repayments.
Mr and Mrs F had borrowed a large sum over a long period  that they were increasing  
and it was secured against their home. So the effects of not keeping up the repayments 
could have been serious for them. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and 
Mrs F if Mr F was sick, had an accident or lost his job. 
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs F all the information they needed before deciding 
to buy PPI. The cost was made clear on the PPI application form and the further advance 
quote, and the cover was apparently affordable. But I dont know that the bank pointed out 
the main things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr F doesnt appear to have been affected by any 
of the main exclusions such as those affecting people on certain types of employment 
contract or with pre-existing medical condition. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI wouldve changed their mind about buying it.
I now Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed but it follows I dont think they lost out because of 
any problems with this sale.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman