DRN-3914928
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, has rejected the claim he made under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he says was 
misrepresented to him by the supplier, which Ill call S.
Mr K is represented by a claims management company (the CMC). 
What happened
In November 2015, Mr K purchased a solar panel system including voltage optimiser (the 
system) from S to be installed at his home. Mr K paid a deposit of £100 with his HSBC 
credit card and financed the rest of the purchase with another credit card and a seven-year 
fixed sum loan agreement with other lenders (not HSBC). The system was subsequently 
installed.
In February 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ks behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
HSBC. The CMC said that P had misrepresented the system as paying for itself within eight 
years. And that there was a breach of contract in that the system is not performing as 
promised.
HSBC requested further evidence from Mr K to support the claim, including a report into the 
performance of the system. But this was not provided, so it rejected the claim. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr K.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons: 
Mr K feels he was mis-sold due to the fact that he was told that the system out pay 
for itself within the term of the loan.
The CMCs calculations show that Mr K will not make any profits until after 16 years 
when he has a 7-year loan. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review. I issued 
a provisional decision to explain that I was provisionally upholding the complaint and that, 
subject to any further submissions, I planned to tell HSBC to put things right by paying Mr K 
£4,703.78.
The CMC responded to provide further comments from Mr K including:
After initially agreeing to purchase the system, prior to installation P got in touch to 
say they had a better solution, which was to instal 11 larger panels, which would give 
the same output as the 13 originally offered. 
He did not receive an updated quote or estimated benefits since he understood that 
the output and therefore the benefits would be the same. 
He received a discount on the price since the 11 panels cost less than the original 
13. So, he was expecting to recoup his money sooner. 
He was told there was a low risk of pigeons nesting under the panels, but this later 
happened, and he spent money on repairs and putting fencing around the panels to 
prevent access. 
HSBC responded to say it accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken into account the additional comments made following my provisional decision, 
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and to direct HSBC to pay Mr K £4,703.78. This is in 
line with my provisional decisions. My reasons are below. 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As Mr K paid 
for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, HSBC accepts that section 75 applies to 
this transaction. This means that Mr K could claim against HSBC for any misrepresentation 
or breach of contract by S in the same way he could have claimed against S. So, Ive taken 
section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case. 
Section 56 is also relevant because it says that any negotiations between Mr K and S, as the 
supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of HSBC.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Self-funding
The quote indicated that the system would have 13 solar panels and generate 3,896.36 kWh 
per year, resulting in benefits (from FIT payments and electricity savings) of £1,141.44 or 
£1,312.65 depending on the components chosen. Plus £100.80 in savings from the voltage 
optimiser and £250 in gas/oil savings. The price of the two options shown were the same. 
The quote provided a summary of the benefits and compared these to the costs of the 
system. It showed the total first-year benefit to be £1,663.45. And said, Quickest payback 
on your purchase based on ALL future savings and government income being used to 
replace cash purchase is approximately 8 years.
So, it seems that Mr K was told by S that the system would pay for itself within 8 years for a 
cash purchase. But I think Mr K wouldve understood that the payback time would be longer 
given hed borrowed money to pay for the system, including using an interest-bearing loan. The quote did indicate there would in the first year be a shortfall between the benefits and 
the loan repayments of £116.46  and set out that would mean Mr K would need to find 
£9.71 per month or £2.24 per week on top of the expected FIT payments and electricity and 
gas savings.
So, I think it is unlikely that Mr K was told the system would immediately be self-funding, or 
that when taking the cost of borrowing into account that the system would pay for itself within 
8 years.
He may, however, have been told the system would be self-funding overall, in that over 25 
years electricity savings would be £17,518.44 and FIT payments would be £30,159.23  a 
total benefit of £47,677.67. This is compared to the cost of the system being £11,099.00 plus 
loan interest of £1,460.72  a total cost of £12,559.72. 
Breach of contract
The quote said the system would generate 3,896.36 kWh per year and consist of 13 solar 
panels. However, the MCS certificate shows the installed system would generate only 
3,052.59 kWh per year. This is only 78.3% of the amount shown in the quote. 
Mr K has confirmed 11 solar panels were installed instead of 13 on the understanding they 
would generate the same amount of electricity as shown on the quote. But that he received a 
discount on the original price quoted. 
So, it seems the contract was varied with Mr Ks consent in exchange for a discount. But he 
denies being told of the lower generation capability of the installed system. However, Mr K 
was provided with the MCS certificate shortly after installation, which confirmed the system 
was estimated to generate only 3,0520.59 kWh per year. That certificate was required for 
him to apply to receive FIT payments, so Im satisfied he wouldve seen this. Had this been 
different to his understanding of what had been agreed verbally, I would have expected Mr K 
to raise this issue much sooner than five years later. On balance, I am not persuaded that 
the generation figure on the MCS certificate was different to what Mr K had agreed to. 
As such, I think Mr K wouldve been expecting the system to generate 3,052.59 kWh per 
year. This amount was calculated using an industry standard calculation. And I would 
expect, where the calculation was accurate, that the annual generation achieved would be at 
least 90% of that amount, which is 2,747.33 kWh.
The system has actually generated on average only 2,667 kWh per year. This is based on 
generation from the installation date of 3 December 2015 until 11 December 2019, when the 
meter reading (shown on FIT statements) was 10,734 kWh. This date has been used as it is 
as close to the anniversary of installation as possible, which avoids the effect of seasonal 
variations in generation.
This is only 87.3% of the amount shown on the MCS certificate. Ive checked the generation 
as close to each anniversary as possible, and each year the system generated less than 
90% of the amount shown on the MCS certificate. As such the system is underperforming by 
more than a reasonable margin and has done so from the start. So, I think that S breached 
the contract by installing a system that performs significantly worse than the one Mr K 
agreed to buy.
HSBC has said that the quote says, The performance of solar PV systems is impossible to 
predict with certainty due to the variability in the amount of solar radiation (sunlight) from 
location to location and from year to year. The estimated is based upon the standard MCS 
procedure given as guidance only. It should not be considered as a guarantee of performance. While that is the case, I would still expect the estimated performance shown 
on the quote to be calculated with due skill and care and for the system to generate at least 
90% of the amount shown on the MCS certificate.
Since that is not the case and has not been from the first year, I think that S breached the 
contract by installing a system that was not capable of generating the estimated amount of 
electricity.
We did suggest that HSBC arrange to inspect the system to check if there was some other 
issue that could be fixed, so that the system would generate electricity in line with the MCS 
figure in future. But HSBC has refused to do so. HSBC said Mr K should arrange an 
inspection and provide a report. But I disagree. It appears the underperformance issue has 
been ongoing since installation  suggesting a breach of contract occurred. As such the 
onus would be on HSBC to evidence that there was not a breach of contract. However, I 
suggested compensation as below in my provisional decision, which HSBC has said it 
accepts.
Mr K has mentioned an issue with pigeons nesting under the solar panels. But that wasnt 
raised as part of his complaint to HSBC. So, I cant comment on it in this decision, which is 
about HSBCs response to his original claim.  
Putting things right
Putting things right is not an exact science in a case like this. Ive had to think about what 
losses are likely to have come about from the breach of contract. Largely, that is that the 
financial benefits of the system will be less than Mr K was told they would be. Some of those 
losses have already happened. Some are in the future and are somewhat uncertain. So, to 
put things right in this case, Ive thought about what Mr K expected to happen and what is 
likely to happen given what we know now, in order to come up with a reasonable amount of 
compensation.
The quote showed that Mr K could expect to benefit through FIT payments of £30,159.23 
over 20 years and electricity savings of £17,518.44  giving a total benefit of £47,677.67. But 
that was based on a system that would generate 3,896.36 kWh per year. 
Mr Ks actual system was expected to generate 3,052.59 kWh per year, which is 78.3% of 
this amount. 78.3% of £47,677.67 is £37,331.62. Ive taken this to be the amount that Mr K 
could expect to receive over 20 years if the system had performed in line with the MCS 
figure.
The MCS certificate shows the system should be generating 3,052.59 kWh per year. But it is 
only generating 2,667 kWh per year. This is 12.6% less.
Ive assumed that the system will continue to generate 12.6% less than expected throughout 
its life. The financial benefits are derived directly from the amount of electricity generated, so 
I think it is likely that Mr Ks overall benefits will also be 12.6% less than expected. 
So, to put things right, HSBC should pay Mr K £4,703.78 in full and final settlement of his 
claim and complaint. This is 12.6% of the expected £37,331.62 benefit Mr K expected to 
receive over the lifetime of the system.
I do not intend to tell HSBC to pay any interest on this amount. While some portion of it is for 
losses that have already occurred and would normally attract interest to compensate for the 
time Mr K has been without that money, a large portion of the amount is to compensate him for losses that have not yet occurred. So, he will benefit from use of that money sooner than 
he otherwise would. As such I think that a payment of £4,703.78 is a fair settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things 
right by paying Mr K £4,703.78. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman