DRN-3845851
The complaint
Mr D complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly lodged a fraud marker against him and then
closed his account.
What happened
What Mr D says
Mr D opened a personal account with Metro which he intended for mainly business use. He
explained that he told Metro staff the reason for using the account and was provided the
personal account. He continued to use it mainly for business purposes and in 2017 he
received notification that the account was to be closed. Mr D believed the closure was due to
the use of his account for his business.
Mr D explained that he experienced difficulties opening a new account and had to rely on
less mainstream solutions for his banking needs. A few years later he applied for a covid
related loan but was turned down and found out that Metro had lodged a CIFAS marker
against him.
Note  CIFAS are a national fraud prevention organisation.
Mr D contacted Metro about it and eventually found that the marker was linked to an item
hed sold through his business. A customer of Mr Ds business had reported fraud related to
the sale of an item after the delivery was delayed. Mr D provided evidence surrounding the
sale to Metro. They told Mr D that they could remove the marker if the fraud report was
revoked by his customer. Mr D asked his customer to contact his bank and revoke the fraud
report.
Nothing happened for some time and Mr D brought his complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service for an independent review. Mr D also sought services from a legal
professional who wrote independently to Metro about the marker. A few days after receiving
the letter from Mr Ds legal representative, Metro agreed to remove the marker.
What Metro have said
Metro advised that they received a fraud report from another bank concerning the sale of an
item by Mr D. The customer who submitted the fraud notice was concerned about the
delivery of an expensive item hed purchased from Mr Ds business and thought it may be
fraudulent.
Based on this report, Metro lodged a CIFAS marker against Mr D and closed his account.
Metro also noted that the account was a personal one that was mainly being used for
business purposes.
When Metro were contacted by Mr D a few years after the marker was lodged, they advised
him it was in relation to a specific sale hed been involved in (rather than the way he used his
account). Metro were waiting for the fraud report to be revoked before they did anything
about the marker and eventually after receiving a letter from Mr Ds legal rep, they agreed to
remove it.
The investigation so far
Once Mr Ds complaint was brought to our service, it was looked into by one of our
investigators who asked both parties for information about the complaint. Mr D sent in
various documents concerning the sale of the item that generated the fraud report, his letters
and emails with Metro and details of his legal reps contact with Metro. He also stated that
hed had difficulties with personal finance issues as well which he believed were the result of
the marker.
Metro provided details of the fraud report and their interactions with Mr D. They explained
their position and thought theyd acted appropriately. In their report to our service, Metro
agreed to remove the marker. Our investigator upheld Mr Ds complaint and recommended
an award of £150 to Mr D.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators outcome and sought the payment of his legal fees
and increased compensation. Metro offered a total of £300 but declined to pay Mr Ds legal
fees.
Mr D continued to disagree and asked for a further review of his complaint. I issued a 
provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues here, one being the account closure and the second being the fraud
marker lodged against Mr D.
CIFAS
Metro are the reporting organisation for the marker they lodged, rather than the bank that
generated the original fraud report. So, it was Metros responsibility to meet the appropriate
standards laid down by CIFAS. The two relevant conditions here are:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a Fraud or Financial Crime has been
committed or attempted.
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
When Metro received the fraud report, I think it was reasonable for them to suspect that a
fraud or financial crime may have been committed, but they also needed to comply with the
second condition.
From the information currently supplied by Metro, it doesnt appear that they carried out a
broader investigation into the allegation after receiving the fraud report. They chose not to
contact Mr D about the marker or to obtain his version of events. By doing this they denied
themselves the opportunity to assess the full picture.
What is apparent from the evidence supplied by Mr D, is that there was a delay in delivering
the item which appears to be linked to transport issues. The evidence he provided shows he
sold and later delivered the item, followed by additional contact with the customer to deal
with maintenance issues. Overall, the evidence points to a legitimate sale that experienced
some problems prior to delivery, rather than a fraudulent attempt to steal money fromsomeone.
If Metro had investigated this with some rigour, I think they would have felt the CIFAS marker
wasnt an appropriate way for them to deal with the issue. But because they didnt have the
full picture, they lodged the marker and declined to remove it up until they received a letter
from Mr Ds legal representative.
Mr D had been trying to persuade Metro to remove the marker for some time and had
supplied evidence to them as soon as he was aware of the problem. For some reason,
Metro put the responsibility for removing the marker back on to Mr D and the sending bank.
Its not clear to me why they did that, and their decision only caused to delay its removal. It
was Metros responsibility to assess the evidence theyd been provided with and take
measures to remove the marker if they were presented with additional information that
brought their original decision into question.
By delaying its removal, they unnecessarily caused Mr D continuing distress. I think it was
telling that Metro only removed the marker once a legal representative wrote to them,
despite there being no additional information to consider.
Having looked at the evidence, I dont think that Metro met the appropriate standards
required by CIFAS to lodge the marker in the first place and they delayed the removal of it by
placing the responsibility back on to Mr D. I recognise that the sending bank didnt respond
to Mr Ds customer or Metros attempts to contact them, but that doesnt change the
responsibility that Metro had to deal with the evidence they were presented with by Mr D.
Legal fees
I have considered his request for repayment of the legal fee. Ordinarily I probably wouldnt
agree to the repayment of such fees when they were incurred independently. But here I think
the repayment is warranted. Thats because Mr D had tried for some months to persuade
Metro to remove the marker and supplied evidence to them. It wasnt until Metro received
the letter from the legal rep that they removed it.
Its apparent to me that it was the weight of the argument from a senior legal representative
that persuaded Metro to remove it, rather than the evidence itself. Without such an
intervention, it wasnt clear at the time what would happen, and Mr Ds complaint hadnt yet
been investigated by our service.
Ive noted Metros comments about the legal fees and the timing of them. I dont currently
think that Mr D had to have another reason for trying to remove the marker (such as the
tenancy issues that were referenced in the submissions) as Metro had failed at that point to
reconsider the evidence hed provided.
In a response to our service about why they shouldnt be responsible for the legal fees,
Metro said:
Mr D knew he was in jeopardy of being evicted prior to making enquiries to (legal rep). I
view that had Mr D approached us when he first knew he was potentially facing eviction at
the end of his tenancy agreement in May 2021, we would have looked at his situation
differently and removed the marker.
I found this a puzzling response from Metro about how they dealt with their responsibilities
concerning the CIFAS marker. Either the evidence meets the standards, or it does not. Mr D
had tried to persuade Metro to remove the marker with evidence that supported his version
of events, so Im unsure why Metro would then say they would have removed it based onfactors not directly relevant to the standards required by CIFAS.
Account closure
Ive read Mr Ds letter to Metro explaining what happened when he opened the account,
although Metro dont have any record of what was discussed at the time. Mr D asserted that
he was given the personal account even though hed told Metro it was for business
purposes.
I cant know what was discussed at the time the account was opened. But Metros own
policy is that personal accounts cant be used for business purposes and is something that
would probably result in the closure of an account. Whilst I understand what Mr D has said
and there may well have been a misunderstanding at the time, I cant think why Metro would
have knowingly opened such an account when it was against their own policies.
Summary
So, whilst I currently think that Metro didnt meet the appropriate standards laid down by
CIFAS, I do think they were entitled to close the account in the way they did. Im intending to
award Mr D a payment of £500 for the way that Metro handled the CIFAS marker and the
subsequent delay in its removal. Im also intending to uphold Mr Ds request for his legal
fees (£1,260.00) to be repaid by Metro. Im not currently intending to make any further
awards unless I receive evidence that the marker caused Mr D further losses.
I understand Mr D has provided details of difficulties with mortgage applications as a result
of the marker. I did note the date of the various discussions about this were around the time
of the removal of the marker. So, Id only be able to consider redress based on the impact to
Mr D whilst the marker was in force.
I invited Mr D and Metro to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Both Metro and Mr D accepted my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
In order to settle this complaint, Metro should now pay Mr D £500 for their handling of this 
case and the impact it had on Mr D. Also to refund his legal bill which amounted to 
£1,260.00.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Metro Bank PLC are instructed to settle it 
as Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman