DRN-1932847
 
The complaint
You need to tell us before X XXXXXX XXXX whether XX XXXXXX accepts the decision. You 
can do this by scanning the reply form I've attached and emailing it back to us - or you can 
just reply to this email to let us know. Please don't return the form by post - as we're not 
currently able to receive it. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this case and said they thought the complaint should 
be  upheld. But Barclays has disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account when deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
These events took place quite a while ago, but I was sent a copy of the actual application 
form Ms M signed to get her new credit card, back in July 1999. There were two options on 
the form about PPI where the applicant was invited to choose whether they wanted  or 
didnt want  this type of cover.
I can see Ms M ticked the box to show she didnt want PPI. So at that time she made it 
clear that PPI wasnt something she was interested in. Barclays has told us that the PPI 
was added to her account around two months later, in September 1999. But it cant say 
whether it phoned her, or the other way around. 
Given that Ive seen Ms M wasnt interested in PPI when she applied for her card, I have to 
consider what would have changed her mind in the fairly short time between applying for her 
card and apparently speaking to Barclays on the phone. 
Barclays hasnt got a recording of the telephone call it says must have resulted in the 
sale. And it hasnt been able to show us a script that its call-handlers followed when 
selling PPI over the phone. So it hasnt been able to explain how or why Ms M wouldve 
changed her mind over this relatively short period of time about wanting PPI. Ms M on the 
other hand has been consistent that she didnt want PPI and never agreed to it. So I dont 
think I can fairly say, in the absence of adequate evidence or information, that Ms M went 
ahead and agreed to have PPI added to her card. 
To summarise, I havent seen any evidence that Ms M ever agreed to this PPI policy  
and the only evidence Barclays can show me from the sale strongly suggests it wasnt 
something she wanted to buy.
It follows that Im upholding Ms Ms complaint in full, with the exception of the refund of 
commission and profit share that I see she already received from Barclays in December 
2019. 
Putting things right
Barclays should put Ms M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A. Barclays should find out how much Ms M would have owed when her credit card 
account was closed if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI 
 as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Ms M owed when the account 
was closed and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Ms M made a 
successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she got for the claim from 
the amount it owes her.
B. Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms M would have 
owed when her account closed until she gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.*
C. If  when Barclays works out what Ms M would have owed each month without PPI  
Ms M paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Ms M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Ms M wouldve owed Barclays something on her credit card. 
D. Barclays can deduct the amount they paid to Ms M for commission refund.
E. Barclays should tell Ms M what its done to work out A, B and C.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ms complaint. And I direct Barclays Bank Plc to pay the compensation Ive 
outlined above, save for the refund of commission shes already received. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman