DRN-1926266
The complaint
Ms M is seeking to recover nearly £135,000 from TSB Bank plc, which was stolen from her 
as a result of a third-party scam. Ms M is represented by her daughter, Miss E. 
TSB says it is not liable for the loss because Ms M authorised the payments  and it could 
not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money from the payee 
banks.
What happened
In 2017, Ms Ms relationship of 35 years was abruptly ended by her husband, causing her 
significant shock and grief.  Ms M struggled to process emotionally and mentally what had 
happened and, regrettably, she experienced anxiety and depression leading her to take 
medication to help her cope with the trauma.  
Six months later, Ms M joined an internet dating site where she met a man who told her he 
too had been recently divorced, lived locally and like her, was also a parent. Ms M felt that 
she had found a friend who could relate to what she was going through and in whom she 
could confide about her own trauma following her recent separation. The conversations 
between them developed and moved from the online forum to daily private emails, texts and 
telephone calls. The man sent Ms M photographs of him and his children and shared 
personal details about himself and his background, thereby slowly gaining Ms Ms trust. 
Soon after, he said he had secured a job overseas to work on a project.
Over the following months, the man  whom we now know was a scammer  proceeded to 
ask Ms M for money under various guises. And as is often seen in scam cases of this 
nature, the amounts requested started relatively small and soon became requests for 
significant payments. 
The following table sets out the amounts sent to the scammer including associated 
international payment fees:
Date Transactions 
out of accountTransactions 
into accountAmount
14/05/2018 Faster Payment £750
25/5/2018 Credit from a loan £9,990
28/5/2018 Faster Payment £1,000 (plus £10 each for Swift payment 
and international fee = £20)
30/5/2018 Faster Payment £10,000 (plus £17.50 fee)
5/7/2018 Faster Payment £3,000 (plus £10 fee)
21/8/2018 Credit from a loan £10,000
22/8/2018 Faster Payment £10,000 (plus £17.50 fee)
23/10/2018 Credit of divorce 
settlement 
monies£123,102.87 
29/10/2018 Faster Payment £55,000 (plus £20 fee)
14/11/2018 Faster Payment £45,000 (plus £20 fee)
29/12/2018 Faster Payment £10,000 (plus £17.50 fee)
21/1/2019 Faster Payment £3,000 (since refunded by TSB)
Total payments (inc. fees, less refund): 
£134,872.50
The scammer told Ms M that hed arrived abroad but couldnt open a bank account and 
needed some money. He asked for £750 which he assured Ms M he would pay back and 
Ms M sent this to him via bank transfer. A series of further payment requests followed with 
various explanations which Ms M felt at the time, were credible. These included:
Needing to purchase machinery;
Needing the money to pay his employees whilst he had unresolved tax issues; 
Needing the money to pay a tax bill which would have to be cleared so he could 
return to the UK and asking for that money to be paid into the account of his 
employer to add credence to his request;
Needing the money to be paid into a friends account because the one he had was in 
overdraft so some of the payment would be lost if credited there; 
Needing the money to pay for the return flight home;
Latterly, being told that unless she sent the monies to him, he wouldnt be able to 
return to the UK and pay her back.
The scammer led Ms M to believe they were very much in love; in email exchanges between 
them, Ive seen him dissuading Ms M from listening to anyone else and only trusting her own 
heart. Text messages from him were affectionate and alluded to the life they would lead 
together. 
Over time, Ms M says she felt increasingly pressured to continue to send the money 
because she believed it was the only way she would receive back what she was owed. She 
didnt tell any family what was happening because she felt ashamed of losing the divorce 
settlement monies which were intended to buy a new home for her and her daughter so they 
would no longer have to rent. 
Miss E (the representative) has explained to us that the fraud only came to light when TSB 
queried the payment of £3,000 made on 21 January 2019. This was because the beneficiary 
bank asked for additional information before it would release the money. Ms M then 
contacted TSB to provide this and the scam came to light. TSB felt that it should have taken 
quicker action to respond to the beneficiary banks enquiries and for this reason, chose to 
refund the £3,000 to Ms M.
TSB has declined to refund the remaining payments to Ms M. With regard to these, TSB 
contacted the beneficiary banks on the day that the fraud was reported (February 2019) and 
has since confirmed that none of the funds are available to be recovered.
Ms M received over £123,000 as part of her divorce settlement, all of which she sent to the 
scammer. She also took out two loans for £10,000 each with two other credit providers to 
send funds to the scammer as well as using her savings and her overdraft. Ms M is now in 
an IVA (Individual Voluntary Arrangement) because of the financial difficulty caused by 
losing her money to the scammer. Ive seen medical evidence of the profound effect the 
scam and resulting financial difficulties has had on her mental health too. An investigator here assessed the case and upheld Ms Ms complaint concluding that TSB 
should have done more to query the activity on Ms Ms bank accounts and that it missed key 
moments where it ought to have asked more questions, the result of which would likely have 
led to the earlier unveiling of the scam. 
TSB disagreed. It said that its usual for customers to transfer monies between accounts and 
to make large payments from a current account. It noted that Ms M had received a large 
credit of just over £123,000 into her account so it didnt see it as unusual that large transfers 
were thereafter being made out of the account. As Ms M had an agreed overdraft, it says it 
didnt consider it unusual that this was being utilised by some of the payments Ms M made to 
the scammer. 
TSB also relied on the warning on the dating website about moving away from the online 
forum and being asked for money by people posing as friends  it says that Ms M chose to 
send the monies in spite of this and so it cannot be held responsible. Further, it says Ms M 
made and authorised the transactions and it was obliged to fulfil these; it also met the 
industry standards expected of it. TSB has remained steadfast in its position that the nature 
and level of Ms Ms spending was not a cause of concern that would trigger further 
investigation and nor was it so unusual as to put TSB on notice of potentially fraudulent 
activity.  
As both parties disagree, the case has come to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered relevant guidelines, laws and industry practice in reaching my decision.  
Having done so, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint  Ill explain why.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Ms M was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She used her security credentials to make the payments to the 
scammer via online bank transfers to his accounts. So, although she did not intend for the 
money to go to a scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms 
and conditions of her account, Ms M is presumed liable for the loss of her money in the first 
instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The evidence before me indicates that TSB failed to make any enquiries of Ms M about both 
the large sum which was credited to her account because of the divorce settlement or any of 
the substantial transfers which Ms M made. Ive seen Ms Ms statements from before and 
throughout the scam. Ms Ms usual banking activity was frequent transactions, most of which 
were under £100. It seems to me therefore, that at the very least, the transactions for 
£3,000, £10,000, £45,000 and £55,000 ought to have flagged on its systems as unusual 
compared to Ms Ms usual banking activity and prompted a conversation with her about what 
these payments were for. Moreover, the majority of the transactions were international 
payments to new payees, which Ms M hadnt made before, as Ive seen from her 
statements. 
Having considered the statements, I can see why the first payment for £750 on 14 May and 
the payment for £1,000 on 28 May (albeit an international payment), may not have triggered 
on TSBs systems. They were not particularly unusual or uncharacteristic in and of 
themselves. Theres a balance to be struck when considering whether its fair and 
reasonable for a bank to intervene. But I am surprised that the third payment for £10,000 on 
30 May, didnt do so. In my opinion, TSB could and should have done more to reach out to 
Ms M, ask probing questions and get into the detail in order to test the purpose of the 
payment. 
Ms M was vulnerable at the time due to her separation and the effect of this on her mental 
health. The nature of this type of romance scam is well known by banks. Ms M was coached 
by the scammer to say that the money was being sent to her daughters partner, if she was 
questioned by the bank. Had TSB probed her  e.g. asking why he needed the funds so 
urgently, what line of work he was in, any evidence she could provide of the request, etc  
Im persuaded that the false reason would have been unravelled and Ms M would have been 
alerted to this bearing the hallmarks of a scam. In so doing, she and/or the TSB staff would 
have realised that something was amiss before it was too late. In other words, but for TSBs 
failure to notice the unusual activity and then subsequently probe - in an appropriate and 
sensitive way - the scam would probably not have succeeded. As such, the payment for 
£10,000 could have been stopped and the chain of payments which followed could have 
been avoided thus preventing the loss of over £130,000.
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether TSB 
also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from the payee 
banks before they were irretrievably removed by the scammer. But for completeness, I will 
say that, whilst there was no delay by TSB when the scam was unveiled (triggered by the 
enquiries of the beneficiary bank), it would have made no difference because it found that 
the scammer withdrew all the money. Given the passage of time from the transfers being 
made to the scammer and the unveiling of the scam in February 2019, this is unsurprising as 
I believe scammers often remove funds within hours of the payments being made to avoid 
them being recalled. 
TSB says that Ms M bears the responsibility for being scammed because despite warnings 
on the online dating site about financial requests from a user being an indicator of fraud, she 
chose to correspond with him privately and send him money. I do not consider that the 
warning on the dating site absolves TSB of its responsibility to undertake reasonable 
transaction monitoring of its customers accounts and for its systems to be triggered when 
large and out of character payments are being made  especially to new payees abroad. 
And in Ms Ms case, there was a stark contrast between her usual activity of transactions 
less than £100 and the five-figure sums being transferred in international payments.I accept in principle that compensation can be proportionately reduced if a complainant is 
found partly to blame for what happened. However, it is clear that up to and including the 
time of authorising the payments, Ms M was completely unaware and simply did not 
appreciate what she was doing or the consequences of her actions. She thought she was 
helping a friend in a similar personal situation to her own and was given detailed 
explanations about the reasons for each transfer and promises of repayment. They 
communicated frequently and the scammer sent her his passport picture and photos of him 
with his purported family  she had no reason to doubt that any of this wasnt authentic. I am 
satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion. Ms M was simply the 
unwitting and blameless victim of a callous fraudster. The bank was the professional in 
financial matters; Ms M was a vulnerable layperson who was preyed upon. 
  
Putting things right
In the circumstances, I am satisfied TSB should fairly and reasonably reimburse Ms M for 
the loss she suffered from 30 May 2018 together with interest to compensate her for being 
deprived of the money she lost.  I am satisfied that had the fraudster not taken the money 
from Ms M, a significant proportion would have remained in her savings account, so interest 
on that amount should be at that rate. I also consider that but for TSBs lack of intervention, 
Ms M would not have taken out the second loan in August 2018 and the proceeds from the 
first loan on 25 May 2018 could have been stopped before it left the account. 
I also think it is appropriate to make a modest award of £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience Ms M has suffered. In reaching that conclusion I am mindful that her loss was 
ultimately caused by the callous act of a scammer and the transactions were authorised, but 
TSB could ultimately have prevented the majority of the payments. I acknowledge that Ms M 
was vulnerable at the time because her long marriage had suddenly ended. I too 
acknowledge that being the victim of a scam added further stress and strain on her mental 
wellbeing such that she was unable to work for several months. However, I cannot fairly hold 
TSB entirely responsible for this when its clear that there were various contributory factors 
which led to the decline in her mental health.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is Im upholding Ms Ms complaint 
against TSB Bank plc. I require TSB Bank plc to: 
refund the unrecovered scam payments made on and after 30 May 2018 (i.e. from 
the first £10,000 onwards) until and including 29 December 2018, i.e. a total of 
£133,000; 
refund all associated international fees and charges for this period;
re-work the account and refund any interest or charges applied to the account from 
30 May 2018 to the date of reimbursement; 
after reworking the account, pay Ms M 8% simple interest per year (less any tax 
properly deductible) from the dates of loss to the date of refund on any funds that 
were from her current account; and pay her the account interest rate (again, less any 
tax) for the funds she transferred from her savings account  again, from the dates of 
loss to the date of refund;
remove any adverse markers which have been applied to Ms Ms account as a result 
of her indebtedness caused by the scam; and
pay Ms M £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
For the avoidance of doubt, I only have the power to award a maximum of £150,000 in this 
complaint (owing to the respective dates of the events and the referral to us: see DISP Rule 3.7.4 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook). So I cant bind TSB to more than 
£150,000. But if interest takes the total amount payable over that sum, which seems 
possible, the excess will also be binding because interest (and costs) are excluded from our 
statutory cap on awards (DISP 3.7.5).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Reena Anand
Ombudsman