DRN-3442829
The complaint
Miss A complained about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) dealt with an 
ongoing claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
A radiator leaked in Miss As home. A home emergency company visited over a period of 
time to try and fix the leak. Miss A also contacted Lloyds to make an insurance claim for the 
damage caused by the leak. Lloyds started to deal with the claim. Miss A complained to 
Lloyds as she was concerned with the claim progress. Lloyds responded. The complaint 
then came to this service and an ombudsman issued a final decision.
Miss A raised three further complaints as she was concerned about issues related to her 
pets, the claim handling, including the actions of the loss adjuster, and enquiries made about 
some aspects of the claim. Lloyds provided responses to each of the complaints and 
explained why it had taken the actions it did.
When Miss A raised these complaints with this service, our investigator didnt uphold them. 
He said Lloyds had been waiting for confirmation that Miss As pets had been removed from 
the living room, which had affected its ability to inspect the damage and progress the claim. 
Lloyds, including the loss adjuster, had tried to prioritise Miss As claim to progress it. Lloyds 
had also made adjustments when Miss A explained she had a disability. He said it was also 
reasonable for Lloyds to investigate how the money for the pet boarding costs had been 
used. He said Lloyds had been fairly progressing the claim. 
As Miss A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Miss A raised a previous complaint with this service that another ombudsman issued a final 
decision on. I will not be looking at any aspects already dealt with in that decision and the 
timeframe it covered. Im also aware that Lloyds has more recently cancelled Miss As policy 
back to when it was first set-up. However, any complaints about that decision by Lloyds 
would need to be looked at separately as those events took place after the date of the final 
response letters Im considering.
Miss A complained about delays in progressing the claim. Miss A had a number of pets, 
which seemed mainly to live in cages in the living room. This was also the room in which the 
leak happened. From what Ive seen, Lloyds started to assess the claim but needed the pets 
and other items to be moved elsewhere so it could carry out a proper inspection. Im aware 
that Miss A arranged for her pets to be moved to a boarding service. Lloyds made a 
payment for some pet boarding costs shortly after it received evidence of the costs. 
However, Lloyds still needed Miss A to arrange for the room to be cleared so that the 
damage from the leak could be assessed. Lloyds continued to follow this up with Miss A to 
get confirmation of when the room had been cleared. Having looked at what happened, I 
think Lloyds acted reasonably.
Lloyds then contacted Miss A because it had been told the pets had been removed from the 
boarding service and that the boarding service also hadnt been paid. Miss A provided 
Lloyds with an update on moving items to storage and said she hadnt paid the boarding 
service and had used the money for other things. Lloyds continued to have a number of 
queries about aspects of the claim, including about where Miss A lived and what the 
payment it had made had been used for. I can see that Lloyds concerns affected the 
progress of the claim. However, its reasonable for an insurer to investigate a claim and to 
raise questions where it has concerns. Having looked at what happened, I think it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to look at these aspects of the claim and to ask Miss A for further 
information and evidence, including about where she lived and how she had used the 
money. I havent seen anything to suggest that Lloyds did this to deliberately or 
unnecessarily delay progressing the claim.
Miss A also complained about how the loss adjuster put questions to her. The loss adjuster 
arranged to visit Miss As property and to ask some questions. I understand that the loss 
adjuster arrived at the property earlier than expected and that Miss A was concerned this 
was potentially to speak to Miss A on her own, before a friend arrived who she wanted to be 
with her at the meeting. However, I havent seen anything to show the loss adjuster was 
aware Miss A planned to have someone with her or that the loss adjuster was trying to 
create a situation where the friend wouldnt be present.
Miss A was unhappy that the loss adjuster also wanted to ask a number of follow-up 
questions by phone. Miss A said she told the loss adjuster she wanted the questions to be 
put to her in writing. I dont know exactly what was discussed at the meeting at the property 
between the loss adjuster and Miss A. However, Ive read the emails Miss A sent following 
this. In the emails, Miss A said she wanted all of the information to be requested in writing 
because she was intending to take the matter further. Miss A also said this would mean 
she wouldnt have to frantically search for information during the phone call and that she 
had memory issues due to some disabilities. Miss A said she would be able to provide a 
written account at her convenience, when she was in less pain due to some health issues 
and it would be much more accessible to her. 
Lloyds initially decided it was better to continue with a phone interview, as this was the most 
effective way to progress the claim. However, I can see that Miss A contacted Lloyds directly 
to raise her concerns about asking the questions in that way and Lloyds then reviewed its 
position and, shortly afterwards, agreed it was a reasonable adjustment to put the questions 
in writing. So, having looked at what happened, in my view, although Lloyds could potentially 
have agreed to the request slightly sooner, it did agree to change the way it asked Miss A 
the follow-up questions and it did this in order to make reasonable adjustments because of 
Miss As disabilities.
Miss A has said she was left in difficult living circumstances, including that because of the 
condition of the property, alterations couldnt be made she needed as a result of her 
disabilities. Based on what Miss A has said, the property seems to have been an unpleasant 
and potentially difficult environment. Its my understanding that Miss A wasnt living at the 
property during the claim and that there were other issues at the property, including a 
separate claim for damage to the kitchen which was being dealt with by another insurer. 
Because some of the animals were kept in the living room, this made it difficult for Lloyds to 
do things like remove the carpet, which Miss A said was mouldy, or assess the extent of the 
damage. I understand Miss A and some friends removed the carpet by cutting it into pieces. Lloyds concerns about the claim remained ongoing at the time the last final response letter 
was issued that forms part of this complaint. Ive read a letter Lloyds sent shortly before that 
last complaint response. This described in detail the range of issues that still needed to be 
addressed, including whether Miss A was eligible to take out the policy, issues with 
assessing and validating the claim and a range of concerns about the pet boarding, such as 
the costs involved and the invoices provided. Lloyds was entitled to investigate its concerns 
about the claim. I havent seen anything that suggests to me that Lloyds treated Miss A less 
favourably because of her disability or that her disability motivated Lloyds to look at these 
issues. Lloyds also put all of the questions and issues in writing, which is what Miss A had 
asked it to do. So, I also think Lloyds took into account the reasonable adjustments Miss A 
had asked it to make in order for her to consider the issues and provide a response.
Miss A also complained that Lloyds contacted the police because of concerns about her 
welfare. The police visited Miss As property to check on her. Ive listened to the phone call 
that led to Lloyds contacting the police. Having done so, I can understand why Lloyds was 
concerned for Miss As welfare. Lloyds also told Miss A it would contact the police and Miss 
A said it should do so. Lloyds has said it is its policy to contact the police in such 
circumstances and I think it acted reasonably by doing so.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think Lloyds dealt with the claim reasonably. It 
explained to Miss A what needed to be done to progress the claim, its concerns about 
aspects of the claim and the further information it needed. I also didnt identify anything to 
suggest Lloyds deliberately or unnecessarily took actions to unreasonably delay the claim. 
Lloyds also made the reasonable adjustments Miss A requested in order for her to consider 
the issues it raised about the aspects of the claim. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint 
or require Lloyds to do anything further in relation to the issues raised as part of these 
complaints.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman