DRN-2649890
The complaint
Ms M complains that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms M applied online for two loans from Zopa. In April 2016 Zopa gave Ms M a loan of £3,000 
over 24 months. In February 2017, Zopa gave her a loan of £6,250 over 36 months as 
below. Both loans were repaid early.
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments Amount Monthly 
RepaymentBorrower 
FeeInterest
1 25/04/2016 18/01/2018        24 £3,000.00 £147.13 £200 £531.08
2 11/02/2017 05/02/2018        36 £6,520.00 £231.35 £420 £1808.46
Ms M complained that Zopa shouldnt have given ger the loans. They couldnt have done 
sufficient checks  she was in financial difficulty and they werent affordable.
Zopa said theyd done the necessary credit checks. These included information from credit 
reference agencies and debt to income ratios based on the information given by Ms M. They 
said there werent any signs of problems with Ms Ms payment history or repayment ability.
Ms M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said he thought the checks on the first 
loan showed it was affordable. The application was for debt consolidation and so it looked 
like Ms M was reducing her outgoings. But on the second loan, Zopa shouldve undertaken 
more checks. It was also for debt consolidation  but she wouldve then had two loans 
running for that purpose. So  he wondered why that was, especially as it was only a short 
time after the first loan. And  Ms M had two credit cards with borrowing of £4,600. The 
combined Zopa loan repayments of £378 per month were more than 25% of her income. So, 
Zopa shouldve asked more questions for the second loan. He said interest and charges on 
the second loan should be refunded, plus 8% per annum simple on the monthly repayments 
made.
Zopa disagreed and asked that Ms Ms complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ms M did repay both loans early  and made the monthly repayments, she says 
that Zopa couldnt have done sufficient credit checks when they agreed the loans. She says 
that if they had, theyd have seen they werent affordable. She had other debts also.
One issue here is that Zopa havent been able to provide any detail of the credit analysis 
they did at the time of the loans. So  I have had to make a decision based on limited 
information and using a judgement of what might have happened, based on a balance of 
probabilities.
Looking at loan number 1. Zopa told Ms M  and us  that she passed the credit checks they 
wouldve done at the time. But we havent seen these. We saw that Zopa recorded she had 
disposable income of £839 per month and the loan was said to be for debt consolidation and 
marked approved. Ms M showed us evidence of her income  which was then £1264 per 
month net of tax. Based on repayments of £147 per month and the limited information weve 
seen, its likely that the loan was affordable. So  theres no substantive reason to say Zopa 
didnt do sufficient checks for the first loan.
Looking at loan number 2. Again, it was said to be for debt consolidation  but it was less 
than a year after Ms Ms first loan  which was also for debt consolidation. Zopa were being 
asked to lend a total of £9,520 for debt consolidation. So  Zopa could reasonably have 
asked more questions about Ms Ms circumstances  but they didnt. Zopa showed us a 
copy of the credit searches made at the time. This showed that in 2017, she had a credit 
card with a limit of £3,800 (debt £3,411) and another card with a limit of £1,200 (debt 
£1,172). She also had an overdraft of £450. This, added to her other loan from Zopa 
(balance £2,105  some repayments had been made)  meant Ms M had unsecured 
borrowing of almost £14,000. When looked at against her salary  which was then £1,277 
per month  its clear that Zopa shouldve asked more questions about Ms Ms 
circumstances, such as her income and expenditure and her other debts. We also couldnt 
see if  given that both loans were for debt consolidation  that Zopa had asked which what 
the other debts were. Nor did they follow through with Ms M to see that they were repaid by 
the loans.
Putting things right
 So  based on what Ive seen, I dont think Zopa have evidenced that they made the second 
loan responsibly. And Ms M should therefore be put back in the position she was in before 
the second loan was agreed. Its not fair to Zopa to ask them to write off the loan, or any part 
of it  as Ms M has had the use of the money. But its appropriate to ask Zopa to:
Refund all interest and charges (including the borrower fee) made on loan number 2 
(noting that there may have been a refund of interest when the loan was repaid).
Calculate and pay 8% per annum simple on the payments made by Ms M to loan 
number 2 from when the payments were made up to when the loan was repaid.
(Continued)
My final decision I uphold this complaint. 
Zopa Bank Limited must:
Refund all interest and charges (including the borrower fee) made on loan number 2 
(noting that there may have been a refund of interest when the loan was repaid).
Calculate and pay 8% per annum simple on the payments made by Ms M to loan 
number 2 from when the payments were made up to when the loan was repaid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman