DRN-3574510
The complaint
Mr K has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc has registered a marker against him at CIFAS 
 the national fraud database.
Whats happened?
HSBC decided to terminate its banking relationship with Mr K in May 2018, and it registered 
a fraud marker against him with CIFAS shortly after. At the time, the bank was of the belief 
that Mr K had benefitted from fraudulent funds. His account received two fraudulent 
payments which Mr K withdrew/passed on immediately and, when the bank asked him to 
explain the source of the funds, it says he was vague and did not provide any evidence.
In summary, Mr K has said: 
He was astonished to discover that HSBC had recorded a fraud marker against him. 
He has done nothing wrong. In 2018, he fell victim to fraud when a person, who Ill 
refer to as M, responded to his employment request online. M said he would teach 
him to trade, and he thought it was a genuine opportunity, but it turned out to be a 
scam. M arranged payments into his bank account, and he moved the money on as 
instructed. The CIFAS marker is false and misleading. 
HSBC terminated its banking relationship with him without proper scrutiny of the 
situation. He shouldnt have lost his bank account due to being the victim of fraud.
He believes that HSBCs actions in this matter were unacceptable, extreme, 
malicious, prejudicial and discriminatory. He is a person of good character and has a 
good financial history. The bank shouldve looked at the bigger picture. But it unfairly 
treated him like a criminal without any evidence that he had committed fraud.
This matter has affected his finances and professional life.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. They understood why HSBC had terminated its 
banking relationship with Mr K, but they didnt think it was fair for the bank to record the 
CIFAS marker. They recommended that HSBC remove the marker and pay Mr K £250 by 
way of compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused him.
HSBC accepted our investigators opinion and agreed to settle Mr Ks case in line with their 
recommendations. But Mr K asked for an ombudsmans final decision. So, his complaint has 
now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Mr K has mentioned a multitude of grievances against HSBC, and other 
parties, in providing his evidence. I have carefully noted what hes said but I will concentrate 
my findings on the issues I think are central to the outcome of this complaint about the 
loading of a CIFAS marker. 
HSBC has agreed to remove the CIFAS marker, and I think thats fair. From the evidence 
Ive seen  including the communication that passed between Mr K and M  Im persuaded 
that Mr K was the unwitting victim of a scam, and he didnt intend to facilitate fraud when he 
withdrew/moved on the fraudulent payments he received. Im satisfied that it was reasonable 
for HSBC to terminate its banking relationship with Mr K in light of the fraudulent funds he 
received. But the bank needs to be able to show that it had reasonable grounds to believe 
that fraud or a financial crime had been committed or attempted, backed up by evidence 
which would support it being reported to the authorities, in order to fairly report the matter to 
CIFAS.
HSBC has said that it loaded the CIFAS marker because Mr K withdrew/moved on the 
fraudulent funds, he didnt provide evidence of the source of the funds, and he gave a vague 
explanation for the source of the funds when he was questioned. I accept that this all may 
have been enough to cause HSBC to have a suspicion or concern. But this alone is not a 
good enough basis on which to register a CIFAS marker. The question is whether HSBC had 
sufficient grounds to conclude that Mr K intentionally attempted to commit fraud  the bank 
needs to be able to substantially evidence that Mr K acted fraudulently and did not move the 
fraudulent funds on due to a mistake or misunderstanding. And it doesnt appear that HSBC 
carried out a significant enough investigation to determine this. 
So, Im pleased to see that HSBC has now agreed to remove the CIFAS marker and pay   
Mr K some compensation for the trouble and upset its caused him. I think thats a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint, and overall, Im satisfied that £250 is a fair amount of 
compensation for HSBC to pay.
Finally, I have considered Mr Ks belief that HSBC has acted in an unacceptable, extreme, 
malicious, prejudicial and discriminatory manner. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ks strength of 
feeling, its important to explain that our Service is an informal alternative to the Courts. That 
means we dont have the power to make a finding of discrimination under the Equality Act 
2010. However, we do consider all relevant legislation and regulations when reaching an 
outcome we consider to be fair and reasonable  to both parties. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that HSBCs actions were driven by the way Mr K used his 
account, and the information it received when looking into those issues. As Ive set out 
above, Im not persuaded that the bank adequately assessed the situation before taking 
action, and I think it made an error in this respect. But Mr K did receive and withdraw/move 
on fraudulent funds, and Im satisfied that this reasonably caused HSBC concern. Its for this 
reason Im satisfied that the removal of the CIFAS marker and the £250 award is a fair and 
reasonable resolution to Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc (if it 
hasnt done so already) to remove the relevant CIFAS marker and pay Mr K £250 for the 
trouble and upset its caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman