DRN-4088310
The complaint
Mr D complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) delayed In 
processing his cashback.
What happened
In early November 2022, Mr D had earned over £670 cashback on his card account with 
AESEL. He requested that this be refunded to his account. Despite assurances that the 
cashback would be provided on a number of occasions, it wasnt finally credited to his 
account until 31 January 2023.
Mr D lodged a complaint with AESEL  it apologised for the delays but couldnt explain in 
detail why it took so long to provide his refund. It credited £50 compensation to his account.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator proposed that AESEL 
increase the compensation by £50 to £100, so paying a further £50 to Mr D.
AESEL agreed to pay the increased compensation.
Mr D didnt think the compensation proposed was sufficient.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration at the delay in the cashback being refunded to him. He 
was initially told it should take up to 10 working days. Which meant he should have received 
the refund by 18 November 2022. When he chased the matter up, he was given further 
assurances that the refund had been processed and he had to wait five working days, but 
still it did not arrive.
The refund was finally processed on 31 January 2023. This was after Mr D had raised a 
formal complaint. The only information which could be given to Mr D to explain the delay was 
internal business policies. The complaints handler at AESEL (who appeared not to be 
aware of the detail of those policies) explained to Mr D that he was unable to divulge 
internal business decisions.
I realise that that was upsetting for Mr D. And I understand his reasons for wanting a higher 
compensation payment. But I should clarify that we dont award compensation using a 
formula and this will not be a daily figure as Mr D has suggested. All I can say is that Ive 
taken account of everything hes said. And if AESEL had to delay the payment due to its 
internal business policies, frustrating though that is, I have to take account of that as well. 
And although we have guidelines and case examples, every case is different and is decided 
on its own merits. In this case Im satisfied that the proposed award of compensation - a 
further £50  is, in my view, fair and reasonable and in line overall with the awards we have 
made in other such cases.
Putting things right
I uphold the complaint and require AESEL to pay compensation of £100. £50 having already 
been paid it should pay a further £50.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require American Express Services Europe Limited to provide the 
remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman