DRN-3325658
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way The Mortgage Business plc (TMB) have administered his
mortgage account. Specifically, he complains that:
The mortgage balance is higher than it should be, as TMB have added excessive
and disproportionate fees and charges to the account;
TMB should not have taken action to repossess his property;
TMB should have offered him a lower interest rate over the life of the mortgage. As
they didnt do this he feels hes been overcharged.
What happened
Mr H has a buy to let mortgage with TMB that he took out in 2008. The mortgage was initially
taken out on a variable interest rate that would track 1.24% above the Bank of England base
rate until March 2010. The mortgage offer stated that after that date, TMBs standard
variable rate (SVR) would apply for the term of the mortgage.
Over the years, arrears built up on the mortgage account, and in 2019 TMB took legal action
in order to take possession of the property.
Mr H has complained to TMB on several occasions over the years, and TMB have sent the
following final response letters to Mr H:
July 2015  a response to Mr Hs complaint about the fees applied to his mortgage
account. He also complained the balance was higher than it should have been;
June 2017  a response to Mr Hs complaint that he hadnt been offered a lower
interest rate since he took the mortgage out;
May 2018  a response to Mr Hs complaint about the fees and charges that had
been applied to the mortgage;
September 2018  a response to Mr Hs complaint about the increase in his monthly
payment amount.
March 2020  a response to Mr Hs complaint that TMB had started legal action
unfairly. Mr H had also complained again about the fees and charges applied to his
account, and the interest rate charged.
All of these final response letters contained information about how Mr H could refer his
complaint to our service. And told him that he had six months from the date of each letter to
do so.
Mr H contacted our service on 23 December 2019 to ask us to look into his complaints
against TMB. TMB hasnt given our service consent to consider Mr Hs complaints about
anything that had been covered by their final response letters sent more than six months
before Mr H referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into things, and agreed that we couldnt consider Mr Hs complaint
points that had been addressed in previous final response letters. Mr H said that he didnt
bring those complaints to our service sooner because of his mental health. He told us that he
didnt have the support available to him that he does today. He also said he wasnt made
aware of the time limits. Our investigator considered what Mr H had said, but wasnt
persuaded that the complaint had been made late as a result of exceptional circumstances.
For the parts of the complaint our investigator said he could consider, he didnt think TMB
had treated Mr H unfairly and so he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be referred to
an ombudsman for a decision. So the complaint was passed to me.
I issued a decision which said we could only consider the following parts of Mr Hs complaint:
The mortgage balance is higher than it should be, as TMB have added excessive and 
disproportionate fees and charges to the account since May 2018;
TMB should not have taken action to repossess his property in 2019;
TMB should have offered him a lower interest rate since June 2017.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on the merits of Mr Hs complaint on 21 January 2022. I 
addressed each of Mr Hs complaint points in turn.
TMB have added excessive and disproportionate fees and charges to the mortgage balance
I acknowledged that a lot of the fees and charges Mr H was disputing were from the earlier 
years, and in particular some payments made by TMB in 2012 and 2014 that were added to 
the mortgage balance. But I wasnt able to consider those as Id explained I could only 
consider the fees and charges added to the mortgage since May 2018.
I said that since May 2018, the only charges that had been added to Mr Hs mortgage were 
applied as a result of the solicitors costs TMB had incurred during the legal action they took 
to repossess Mr Hs property.
Mr H had said that the legal fees were excessive and had spiralled out of control beyond a 
level that would be considered reasonable. He said TMB had made no attempt to control the 
fees to a reasonable level. I said that I understood Mr H was frustrated by the charges being 
added to the mortgage, when he had no control over the amount TMB were paying to 
solicitors for the work they were doing. I said TMB had provided invoices they received for 
the legal work that had been carried out, and so I was satisfied they had incurred those costs 
in relation to Mr Hs mortgage.
I said the terms and conditions of Mr Hs mortgage said that he would have to pay TMBs 
expenses in full where they are incurred reasonably and the amount of them is reasonable. 
They also said TMB would charge interest on the expenses from the date theyre incurred 
until the date they are paid. The terms and conditions document gave examples of what the 
expenses may be, one of which was the costs of legal proceedings in connection with the 
mortgage or the property. So, I said that in the event the expenses were reasonably 
incurred, and the amounts were reasonable, I was satisfied TMB had a right to add those 
charges to the mortgage balance.
I acknowledged that Mr H felt the charges were not reasonable, and that they were 
excessive. I explained that, having looked at the invoices TMB received before this 
complaint was made, and the work that was being carried out by the solicitors on their 
behalf, I wasnt persuaded the amounts charged were higher than Id expect. And so I didnt think it was unreasonable for TMB to pay the invoices and apply the costs to Mr Hs 
mortgage. As a result, I wasnt persuaded TMB should refund the charges.
TMB should not have taken action to repossess the property
I said that in July 2019, the arrears balance on Mr Hs mortgage stood at over £6,700. Mr H 
had been making short term arrangements to clear the arrears, but unfortunately he wasnt 
able to do so consistently each month and so the arrears werent reducing by any significant 
amount.
I noted that the terms and conditions of Mr Hs mortgage said that if two monthly payments 
were missed, TMB may ask a court for an order so the property could be sold. As Mr Hs 
mortgage was more than two months in arrears at the time TMB started legal action, I was 
satisfied TMB had a right to take that action in line with the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage. However, I also thought about whether that was fair and reasonable given the 
circumstances at the time.
I acknowledged that it was clear Mr H had been through a difficult time, and his mortgage 
had been in arrears for a significant period as a result. Id reviewed the contact notes for the 
mortgage account, and could see that in 2019 Mr H did have conversations with TMB about 
his situation and the payments he was able to make. But unfortunately, Mr H was not able to 
pay enough each month to consistently reduce the arrears balance on the account. In 
August, Mr H agreed to call TMB back to discuss his income and expenditure, but months 
passed without TMB being able to get in contact with him.
I said that the arrears on the account were month than six months of Mr Hs contractual 
monthly payment. Mr H had been paying what he could afford, but it wasnt enough to 
reduce the arrears balance. Mr H had agreed to call TMB back to discuss his situation in 
more detail, but he didnt get back to them for months. I said that considering the 
circumstances, including the fact this is a buy to let mortgage Mr H had for investment 
purposes, I wasnt persuaded that TMB acted unfairly by taking legal action when they did.
TMB should have offered him a lower interest rate since June 2017
I explained that TMB stopped accepting new business, and offering new interest rate 
products, in 2008. Since then, the only rate they have charged on their mortgages is the 
standard variable rate (SVR). Mr Hs mortgage offer stated that once the initial tracker rate 
was due to end, the mortgage would revert to TMBs SVR. That was what it did. I said that 
TMB werent contractually obliged to offer Mr H new interest rates after the mortgage 
reverted to the SVR, and they had taken the business decision not to offer new rates to any 
of their customers. So Mr H wasnt being treated any differently to any of TMBs other 
mortgage borrowers. As a result, I wasnt persuaded TMB were acting unfairly by not 
offering Mr H a lower interest rate product since 2017.
I said that whilst TMB didnt offer new rates themselves, there were other businesses within 
the banking group that did offer new interest rate products to borrowers. I said I was aware 
of an internal re-mortgaging process that meant TMB customers were able to apply for a re-
mortgage with another firm within the banking group so they could access lower rates.
But I explained I was also aware that the eligibility criteria for applying for an internal re-
mortgage was that the mortgage needed to be up to date with payments, and not be in 
arrears. So whilst Mr Hs mortgage was still in arrears (which it had been since 2017), he 
wouldnt have been eligible for a re-mortgage.
I said that the contact notes showed TMB had made Mr H aware of the options he had in 
regard to his interest rate during a phone call in 2017, but Mr H had said he didnt have the time to discuss that further and ended the call. I said there were also conversations about 
the option of capitalising the arrears on the mortgage, but Mr H had said he didnt want to do 
that as he couldnt commit to the higher monthly payments that would result.
I appreciated that Mr H feels like hes been paying more interest than he should have been, 
as TMB hadnt been able to reduce the rate for him. But I was satisfied TMB made Mr H 
aware of his options, and treated him in line with how theyd treated all their mortgage 
borrowers. If Mr H had wanted to take advantage of lower interest rates offered elsewhere, 
there was nothing in the mortgage contract that would have prevented him from doing so by 
redeeming his mortgage with TMB early. In Mr Hs case, I couldnt see TMB had treated him 
unfairly by not offering him a lower interest rate.
I said that in summary, whilst I appreciated Mr H felt strongly about his complaint, and the 
way TMB had treated him, I wasnt persuaded hed been treated unfairly within the time 
period I was able to consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
TMB said they had no further comments to make in response to my provisional decision.
Mr H didnt provide any comments or information in response to my provisional decision 
either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, my decision remains unchanged.
So whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr H, Im not satisfied TMB have 
treated him unfairly in the way theyve administered his mortgage account, for the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman