DRN-1904307
Complaint
Mrs W has complained that TSB Bank plc wont refund a withdrawal where she says the 
cash did not dispense.
What happened
In December 2019, Mrs W tried to withdraw £40, but she says no money came out. She 
says she got receipts showing an error in the transaction, which she gave to the branch. 
There was no one else around her who couldve taken the money.
TSB raised an ATM dispute, but after receiving some evidence from the ATMs owner, it held 
Mrs W liable for the withdrawal.
Mrs W came to our service. Our investigator looked into things independently and asked 
TSB for further technical evidence. But it refused, saying it had already followed the ATM 
schemes dispute guidelines. It maintained that our investigator should go and get any other 
relevant evidence from the ATM owner himself, even after our investigator explained that he 
had no contact details for the owner and would need to get that from TSB.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, as he found that Mrs Ws testimony was consistent 
and credible, whereas TSB hadnt given him sufficient technical information to show that the 
withdrawal went through properly.
TSB didnt agree, though it still said it would not provide such evidence. The complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I think that in order to hold Mrs W liable for this 
withdrawal, TSB should be able to show it was entitled to debit it from her account.
TSB has provided some basic information from the cash machines owner, which appears to 
show that the withdrawal went through. But it only provides a brief overview of what 
happened, and its difficult for me to be satisfied about what happened from such little detail.
Like our investigator said, Mrs Ws testimony has been consistent and credible. She says 
she gave her receipts to the branch staff and doesnt have them anymore, but TSB says it 
doesnt have them either and didnt take a copy. This is unfortunate, but again, it makes it 
difficult for me to be satisfied that TSB are entitled debit the account.
Our investigator asked TSB for more detailed relevant information to support its argument. 
But it repeatedly declined to give us this, saying it had done what was needed under the ATM scheme rules. I will remind TSB that it is required to comply with our investigations, and 
the scheme rules are not relevant in that regard. Further, we look at things on a fair and 
reasonable basis  and not just on the letter of the ATM scheme rules.
TSBs approach here is strange. It has told us to gather the evidence to support its side 
ourselves. But we are not TSBs representatives, nor Mrs Ws  we are independent. TSB is 
required to give us the evidence we need, not the other way around. Further, we dont even 
have the contact details for the ATM owner  TSB do. I am unsure what TSB expected to 
achieve by declining to evidence its own side, nor why it would think it unfair for a case to be 
found against it when it refuses to co-operate in the investigation.
Indeed, I think it would be unfair for me to find against Mrs W when TSB has deliberately 
inhibited us from having all of the relevant evidence; when Mrs W has been consistent and 
co-operative; and when the existing evidence does not satisfy me that the transaction 
completed properly.
So based on the limited evidence I have from each side, I cannot fairly conclude that Mrs W 
received the £40, and think it is more likely that she did not. And so I dont think TSB can 
fairly hold her liable for the withdrawal in dispute.
Putting things right
TSB Bank plc should:
refund the £40 withdrawal;
 
add simple interest to the withdrawal, at the rate of 8% simple a year, payable from 
the date it debited until the date its returned. This is to compensate Mrs W for the 
time she didnt have her money.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this simple interest. TSB must 
give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint, and direct TSB Bank plc to put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman