DRN-1728222
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) has settled 
a claim theyve made on their Buildmark building warranty policy.
What happened
Mr W brings this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife, so Ill refer to him throughout.
Mr W purchased a newly built property from a builder in August 2018. This property came 
with the benefit of a Buildmark building warranty which, in certain circumstances, covers 
certain defects that might affect a house.
The property experienced some post-construction issues and Mr W initially reported these to 
the builder and asked him to fix them. After some time, the issues were still not resolved and 
so Mr W contacted NHBC. It undertook a number of inspections and produced resolution 
reports for the two claims which are the subject of this decision. These reports detailed the 
work the builder should undertake.
Sometime later, the builder declined to undertake any further work and Mr W asked NHBC to 
take over the work under the resolution service offered under the warranty. NHBC agreed to 
do this in April 2019. 
Mr W remained unhappy with the way the house had been constructed by the builder and 
raised various issues about this, saying the builder hadnt built the property to NHBCs 
standards. 
There were also some issues relating to major damage which were potentially covered by 
the insurance element of the warranty. There was some back and forth between NHBC and 
Mr W and eventually schedules of works were produced which detailed the work which was 
covered by the insurance element of the warranty. 
NHBC produced settlement offers for the two claims but Mr W didnt think these were right. 
After some further queries and negotiation over what should be included and how much 
should be paid for certain work, NHBC produced further settlement offers totalling in the 
region of £33,000. Mr W said he was happy with these offers and confirmed his acceptance 
of them. In due course, NHBC paid him the money and the claim was settled.
Sometime later, Mr W brought a complaint to this service explaining he didnt think the 
payment hed received was fair. He also complained direct to NHBC saying while he was 
happy with the amount he was paid for the work that needed to be undertaken, he didnt 
think it was fair he hadnt been paid either to take time off work to supervise the work himself 
or to pay a project manager (PM) to look after things for him. 
He calculated that a PM would cost in the region of £24,000 and asked NHBC to pay him 
this additional money. NHBC issued its final response and declined his request, saying it 
didnt think a PM was required for the kind of work to be undertaken. It also said it had 
included a 2% uplift in what it had paid him and he could use this to employ a supervisor to 
run the project if he wished. 
Our investigator looked at the evidence presented by the parties and explained that he could 
only consider what had happened after the insurance part of the warranty kicked in. That 
meant he couldnt consider a complaint about the scope of NHBCs investigation and was 
only able to look into what has been included within the resolution report.
He went on to say he thought NHBC had settled the claim fairly by paying Mr W the amount 
it would have cost it to undertake the work using its own contractors and he didnt think it 
needed to pay for a PM. Mr W accepted the amount NHBC had paid was reasonable in 
terms of the work that needed to be done but remained unhappy it hadnt paid for his time to 
oversee the work or for him to pay someone else to. As he was still unhappy, he asked an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Buildmark warranty has a number of different sections of cover, some of which I can 
consider and some I cant. The section of cover relevant depends on the time thats expired 
since the property was purchased.
Section two - The resolution service
In this case, Mr W purchased his property in August 2018 and for the first two years after 
this, section two (the resolution service), is the relevant cover. Put simply, this cover requires 
the builder to resolve damage and defects in the home within the first two years. If it doesnt 
do this, then NHBC will take over in certain circumstances to carry out the repairs.
During this time, the policy allows NHBC to act as a mediator between the builder and the 
consumer and thats what it did in this case. During this time, it inspected the property and 
prepared a number of resolution reports saying what the builder should do to fix the various 
problems.
As our investigator has outlined previously, this resolution service isnt a regulated activity in 
itself and therefore its not something I can consider. This means I cant consider or 
comment on what NHBC did during this time  including what was and wasnt included in the 
resolution reports and whether the builder built the house to NHBCs standards. 
I acknowledge this will be frustrating for Mr W but, put simply, this service doesnt have the 
power to consider, or make recommendations on, this part of Mr Ws complaint.
The settlement of the claim
I can however look at the insurance element of the cover, which commences when:
A resolution report has been completed; and
The report directed the builder to do something by a deadline; and
The builder has failed to complete the works by the deadline.
In this case, the builder declined to undertake further work in April 2019 and asked NHBC to 
take over the repairs. At that point, with all the above requirements having been met, NHBC 
assumed responsibility for completing the work and the insurance element of the warranty 
kicked in.As Ive explained above, I cant comment on what work was included in the resolution 
reports. But I can consider whether NHBCs offer to settle the claim  based on the work 
identified in the resolution reports  was fair.
Insurers often have the option of undertaking repairs themselves or offering a cash 
settlement to allow the policyholder to have the work undertaken by their own contractors. 
Ive looked through the policy document and this policy allows NHBC to decide which of 
those it opts for. In this case, NHBC offered to cash settle the claims. 
The policy terms explain in the section How we calculate what we have to pay NHBC will 
calculate the amount it pays for a claim based on the amount it would cost it to have the 
work done so Im satisfied what NHBC did was in line with the policy terms.
But I do have to consider whether this was fair in the circumstances of this case. 
NHBC initially put forward settlement offers significantly lower than the final figures. Mr W 
queried the cost allowed for a number of elements of the work and following some 
discussions and negotiations, NHBC agreed to increase the figure to in excess of £33,000. 
I note from the file, Mr W confirmed by email in July 2019 to NHBC he thought it had been 
fair with the settlement. He confirmed his acceptance of the amounts in September 2019 and 
NHBC paid them to settle the claim.
Ive not seen any evidence of alternative costings which lead me to conclude these figures 
werent fair. And the evidence suggests Mr W was happy with them at the time. 
Ive then gone on to consider Mr Ws request for a further sum of £24,000 to hire a PM to 
manage the remedial works. Theres no specific mention of a PM being provided under the 
policy, but I might expect NHBC to provide one depending on the extent of the works. 
I acknowledge theres an inherent inconvenience to Mr W of having this remedial work 
undertaken. But in this case, given the settlement sum and scope of work required, Im not 
persuaded NHBC shouldve provided him with a PM to oversee it.
I note NHBC has included a 2% uplift in the amount it already paid Mr W and says he could 
use this to employ a supervisor. I acknowledge Mr W doesnt consider this sum to be fair. 
But as I say, Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me the work would require a PM to 
manage it, particularly at a cost which is such a significant proportion of the cost of the work 
involved.
Overall, Ive not seen enough to persuade me the amounts already paid by NHBC were 
unfair. So I wont be upholding this complaint or asking NHBC to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman