DRN-2491816
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft (ERGO) wouldnt accept 
a claim for Mrs Es lost engagement ring on their home insurance.
Both Mr and Mrs E are named policyholders on their ERGO policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mr E, Ill refer mainly to Mr E from here onward.
What happened
Mr E had a home insurance policy with ERGO. In January or February 2020, Mrs E lost her 
engagement ring. Mr E made a claim under their policy about five days later. He told 
ERGOs claims administrator (referred to here as D) that his wife hadnt left their house or 
premises between the time she last saw the ring and when she noticed it was missing an 
hour later.
ERGO didnt accept the claim. It said that because Mrs E hadnt left the property when the 
ring was lost, it must still be inside their home. This meant the ring wasnt lost so wasnt 
covered by their policy.
Mr E was unhappy with this response, so brought his complaint to this service. He says, in 
summary:
ERGO has taken his original call to D to mean the ring was lost inside the house, 
when he says it could easily have been lost outside.
When he said his wife hadnt left the premises, he meant this in its widest terms, 
including the garden and land.
His land includes several acres of fields, so the premises are large.
D told Mr E his claim would have been accepted if hed said the ring was lost in the 
garden or down the drain.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Es complaint should be upheld. He accepted that Mr 
E told D his wife hadnt left the home or premises. But he said the policy documents dont 
say personal possessions arent covered if lost within the premises. He thought ERGO 
should settle Mr Es claim.
ERGO disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es home insurance policy covers accidental loss or damage to contents, including 
valuables. The policy schedule doesnt list any specified items, but unspecified items are 
insured up to £1,500. 
Our investigator asked ERGO to confirm whether Mr Es policy meant unspecified items 
worth more than £1,500  such as Mrs Es engagement ring  would be covered to a 
maximum £1,500 or not covered at all. ERGO explained that Mr Es policy did cover the ring 
to a maximum £1,500. This is consistent with Ds letter to Mr E on 19 February 2020, which 
noted that the ring wasnt specified in Mr Es policy and is therefore subject to a £1,500 limit 
in respect of any claim.
I think there are two separate issues here. First, where was the ring lost? Second, is this 
covered by the policy?
ERGO says Mrs E didnt leave the property in the one-hour period from when she last saw 
the ring to when she noticed it was missing. It said, Based on this, I am unable to conclude 
that the ring was lost anywhere other than within your home, which would not allow for the 
ring to be defined as lost. 
Ive listened to Mr Es phone call to D when he reported the ring lost. He said, It was on [Mrs 
Es] hand at home and then an hour later shes noticed its gone She hasnt gone 
anywhere off the house or the premises. Mr E has told us that he was referring here to both 
the house and the garden/land. I think thats a reasonable explanation  I think most people 
would understand the distinction he was making  so I dont accept ERGOs contention that 
he only said the ring might have been lost outside as an afterthought. 
ERGO said theres no material difference between home and premises. I dont agree. If 
that was true, thered be no need for separate policy definitions. And a cursory look at the 
policy terms shows thats not correct, with references to home in some terms and 
premises in others.
So I dont think ERGOs conclusion that the ring was definitely lost inside the home is 
reasonable. As Mr E said, it could have been lost in the garden or the several acres of land 
they own.
So, is the loss covered by their policy? During the phone call with our investigator, ERGO 
explained that it wouldnt have made any difference whether the ring was lost in the house or 
in the garden. Any loss within the grounds of Mr Es address wasnt covered by his policy. 
Again, I dont think thats reasonable. Mr Es policy schedule shows he took out additional 
All Risks, Valuables & Personal Possessions cover. This is set out in Section Five of the 
policy, which describes cover for Valuables and personal possessions listed in the schedule 
(or specification(s) attached) against physical loss or damage within United Kingdom, 
Europe and up to 60 days Worldwide. I cant see any exclusion for valuables lost on Mr Es 
premises, either in the 13 examples of What is not covered in Section Five, the Claims 
conditions that apply to Section Five, or in the General Exclusions.
I note that the original May 2017 proposal form refers to the All Risks cover as Cover for 
Valuables and Personal Possessions Away from the Home. However, this isnt how its 
described in Mr Es policy schedule or policy booklet. And theres nothing in any of the 
documents that says this wouldnt cover valuables lost on Mr Es land.
Mr E said his wife lost the ring either inside their home or on their premises. For the reasons 
above, Im satisfied that this is covered by Mr Es policy. It follows that I dont think ERGOs 
decision to decline Mr Es claim was reasonable. It should settle Mr Es claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the policy limits Mr Es claim to £1,500, less the policy excess. I 
understand Mr E can get proof of purchase and of value from the jeweller he originally bought the ring from. He should provide this if ERGO asks for it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require ERGO Versicherung 
Aktiengesellschaft to settle Mr Es claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman