DRN-2807716
The complaint
Ms S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt process her online application for a 
second payment holiday on her mortgage. Shes also unhappy with the assistance shes 
received to address the outstanding arrears on her mortgage.
  
What happened
Ms S and a joint party took out a mortgage for £160,000 in June 2006. The mortgage was on 
a repayment basis and had a term of 25 years. In August 2007, an increase to the Mortgage 
Current Account (MCA) reserve facility was agreed, increasing the limit to £20,000 on an 
interest only basis. 
In 2017, Barclays agreed to merge the MCA reserve facility with the main part of the 
mortgage, capitalise the arrears, and extend the term. This was done to help Ms S with the 
extended period of financial difficulties she had experienced. 
Ms S applied online for a payment holiday in March 2020 as her income had been affected 
by the Covid-19 pandemic. Barclays agreed to the payment holiday for the months of April, 
May and June 2020. The mortgage account had been in arrears prior to this date. 
Ms S has said she applied for a second payment holiday in June 2020. She says she initially 
received confirmation the application for the payment holiday had been submitted, but later 
received an email saying she had used an incorrect application but could reapply if she 
received a unique code. She says she then received a second email acknowledging she was 
waiting to hear about her payment holiday application.
Since the first payment holiday ended, Ms S has said she has tried to engage with Barclays 
about the outstanding arrears on the mortgage account herself and through a representative 
from the Citizens Advice Bureau. She says Barclays have been negligent and incompetent, 
and its actions have impacted her health. 
Barclays responded to the complaint on 4 December 2020. It acknowledged that on 
occasions it had failed to respond to contact from Ms S and that it hadnt been able to meet 
her specific requests for contact. Barclays explained it had been experiencing substantial 
volumes of calls due to the Covid-19 pandemic which had led to longer waiting times. It also 
explained that it needs to discuss customers accounts with them to gather important details 
about their circumstances, in order to assess how best to support them. It said it may be 
able to agree to a second payment holiday and offered £200 for any frustration and 
inconvenience it had caused. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Barclays had acted fairly. She 
said the evidence Ms S had provided showed she had applied for a second payment 
holiday. As she was satisfied the application for the second three-month payment holiday 
would have been granted, she asked Barclays to rework the account to show as if it had 
been put in place  and to correct the information reported to Ms Ss credit file for that 
period. She acknowledged there had been some issues with Barclays communication with 
Ms S about the arrears on the account, but felt the £200 offered was fair in the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
Ms S disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She said she didnt feel the 
compensation offered truly reflected the gross negligence and incompetence she had 
experienced from Barclays  or represented the impact this has had on her health. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S has kindly provided evidence to support her complaint. Id like to be clear that my 
decision wont address every point or comment made by either Ms S or Barclays. I mean no 
discourtesy by this, and I would like to reassure both parties that Ive carefully considered all 
the evidence provided. But my decision will only address what I see to be relevant in 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
When the Covid-19 pandemic hit, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released guidance 
that said lenders should offer mortgage borrowers payment holidays. The guidance was 
aimed to help mortgage borrowers whose financial circumstance had been affected by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. The guidance said lenders should offer a payment holiday to borrowers 
where appropriate and that there should be no negative impact on a customers credit file. 
The maximum payment holiday which could be applied was for a total of six months. 
Ms S had a three-month payment holiday applied to her mortgage for the months of April, 
May and June 2020. She says she applied for a second three-month payment holiday in 
June 2020 and has provided evidence to support this  in the form of print outs of screen 
shots and confirmation emails. 
The screen shots provided suggest that a payment holiday request was submitted, but have 
no date recorded other than Ms Ss handwritten date of 23 June 2020. The confirmation 
emails are dated 27 June 2020 and one says that she has used an incorrect application but 
could reapply if she received a unique code, whilst the other acknowledges she is still 
waiting to hear about her payment holiday. However, neither have a subject heading or show 
who the email was sent from. 
Barclays say it has no evidence to show Ms S applied for a second payment holiday or that 
one was approved. However, since our Investigators view, Barclays has agreed to apply a 
second payment holiday for the months of July, August and September 2020  and amend 
the information reported on Ms Ss credit file to reflect this. 
Having reviewed the evidence provided by Ms S, I dont think it conclusively shows she 
applied for a payment holiday. I say this because there is no electronic time stamp on the 
screen shot, or address on the email to show it was sent by Barclays. However, looking at 
the other evidence provided by Ms S, I think its clear her financial circumstances and ability 
to earn income had been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. So, I think its likely she would 
have applied for a second payment holiday on her mortgage once the first had ended in 
June 2020. Therefore, I think Barclays offer to apply the payment holiday and amend Ms Ss 
credit file is fair.  
Ms S also says Barclays has been negligent and incompetent when she has asked for 
assistance with clearing the outstanding arrears on her mortgage account. When a customer is experiencing financial difficulties, I would expect Barclays to engage 
with the customer to explore what options it can offer to assist with the situation. This will 
often involve speaking with the customer to discuss their accounts and gathering information 
about their circumstances to asses how best to provide support. In situations such as this, 
its important that both Barclays and the customer have an open dialogue to discuss the 
circumstances and available options. 
Looking at the evidence provided, I can see Ms S has tried to keep Barclays informed about 
her financial circumstances. She has sent letters detailing how her work has been affected 
by the Covid-19 pandemic and has said she has tried to call Barclays only to be faced with 
long waiting times. Shes also provided Barclays with income and expenditure details to help 
arrange a suitable repayment plan for the arrears.
Barclays has acknowledged there have been communication issues with Ms S, but I think 
some of these issues can be explained by the Covid-19 pandemic. Many businesses had to 
change the way they operate over night and had to deal with an increase in demand from 
their customers with regards to the impact the Covid-19 pandemic was having on their 
financial circumstances. This understandably meant that many business experienced delays 
when dealing with their customers requests.
I also think there have been times when Barclays delayed matters and asked for more 
information when it wasnt necessary  such as further income and expenditure reports. I 
think this would have been frustrating for Ms S, especially considering that she had provided 
this information to Barclays in the first instance. However, there have also been times when 
Ms S has refused to engage with Barclays  and also times when she hasnt been willing to 
engage with her representative at the Citizens Advice Bureau about what he has discussed 
with Barclays on her behalf. 
Barclays has offered £200 compensation for the communication issues and any distress and 
inconvenience caused. I understand that Ms S doesnt think this is a true reflection of the 
negligence and incompetence she has experience  or that it accounts for the impact this 
has had on her health. However, when taking into consideration the impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic and the actions of both Barclays and Ms S  I think this this is a fair award in the 
circumstances. 
Ms Ss mortgage account is currently still in arrears. Its important that Ms S and Barclays 
engage with each other to discuss the account and explore what options are available to her 
going forward. I understand that Ms S no longer wishes to speak directly to Barclays over 
the telephone, but Barclays has explained there isnt another option as the specialist team is 
only available by telephone. 
Whilst I appreciate Barclays position, I dont think Ms Ss request is unreasonable in the 
circumstances, considering the difficulties she has had contacting Barclays and the impact 
this is having on her health. I think Barclays can either continue to communicate with Ms Ss 
representative or arrange for an alternative way to communicate with her directly. However, 
Ms S should understand that any alternative method of communication may take more time, 
and that if she has a representative, she will need to actively engage with them to resolve 
the issue with the arrears. 
Barclays should also be mindful of any information that Ms S has already provided about her 
financial circumstances when trying to assist her with the arrears. Ms S should also be 
aware that Barclays may now need to request up to date information about her financial 
circumstances and that if she doesnt engage with Barclays about the arrears, I wouldnt 
expect it to do anything differently.  My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
- Rework Ms Ss mortgage account to show she had a second payment holiday for the 
months of July, August, and September 2020. 
- Amend Ms Ss credit file to reflect the second payment holiday. 
- Pay Ms S £200 for the distress and inconvenience.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman