DRN-3357435
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy a claim was declined by BUPA Insurance Limited (Bupa). 
What happened
Mr E had a private medical insurance policy underwritten by Bupa. The policy covered Mr 
and Mrs E and their two sons. 
In June 2021 BUPA provided authorisation for Mr Es son to have an initial consultation with 
a consultant paediatrician in neurodevelopment and neurodisability. They also advised they
would need a report for any further authorisations for treatment.
The consultant paediatrician recommended a full neurodevelopmental assessment to try and 
establish the cause of the difficulties Mr Es son was experiencing. He said this assessment 
would determine if the difficulties are secondary to a global developmental delay, or an 
autism spectrum disorder (ASD) or due to developmental delay with a speech disorder. 
So Mr E contacted Bupa to request an authorisation for the assessment and provided a copy 
of the consultants medical report. 
Bupa explained that they wouldnt be able to authorise cover for the recommended 
assessment as it fell under the learning difficulties, behavioural and developmental problems 
exclusion in Mr Es policy.
Unhappy with Bupas response Mr E referred a complaint to this service. He said Bupa 
should have applied the exception for mental health conditions also listed in this part of the 
policy. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened. She didnt think Bupa had acted unfairly 
because she thought it was reasonable for them to apply the exclusion in the circumstances. 
Mr E asked for an ombudsman decision. In summary he said: 
He agreed that the exclusion applied. But he also thought the exception for mental 
health conditions that followed, should also be applied. 
ASD is a mental health condition on its own and he referred back to the previous 
supporting medical opinion hed provided.  
ASD is a mental health condition under the definition in Bupas policy. 
So the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say Bupa must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
shouldnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
Policy terms
Under the heading What is not covered it states:
Exclusion 20 Learning difficulties, behavioural and developmental problems
We do not pay for treatment related to learning difficulties, such as dyslexia, or
behavioural problems, such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and
autistic spectrum disorder (ASD), or developmental problems, such as shortness of
stature.
Exception: If your benefits include Benefit 5 Mental health treatment we pay for eligible
diagnostic tests to rule out ADHD and ASD when a mental health condition is
suspected. You must have our confirmation before any diagnostic tests are carried out
that the above criterion has been met and we need full clinical details from your
consultant before we can determine this. 
The definition of treatment includes diagnostic testing. 
Has Bupa acted fairly?
I think the policy terms are clear that any treatment for ASD is excluded under the 
policy. 
There is an exception to this exclusion, when the evidence shows a mental health 
condition is also suspected. Bupa have explained that if the evidence shows 
separate mental health symptoms (such as anxiety, stress, depression, low mood) 
then they will authorise an ASD assessment to rule out ASD, before the mental 
health symptoms are treated with therapy. 
Ive reviewed the medical report from the treating consultant pediatrician and I cant 
see evidence of any separate mental health symptoms present. So, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Bupa to conclude this exception isnt relevant to the 
circumstances of Mr Es claim. 
I appreciate Mr Es view that ASD is a mental health condition and Bupa should treat 
it as such. He has referred to Bupas definition of a mental health condition which 
says: 
A condition which is a mental health condition according to a reasonable body of 
medical opinion, and/or which is diagnosed and treated and managed as a mental 
health condition by a consultant psychiatrist or a mental health and wellbeing 
therapist.
Mr E has provided evidence of a supporting medical opinion to show ASD is 
considered a mental health condition. But this hasnt changed my opinion. I say this 
because ASD, as a stand-alone condition, is a disorder specifically listed under the 
exclusion for learning difficulties, behavioral and developmental problems.  So I think 
it was reasonable for Bupa to rely on this section of the policy rather than applying 
the exception for mental health conditions. 
Summary Based on the above, I think it was reasonable for Bupa to decline cover for the ASD 
assessment because the policy terms are clear that cover for ASD, as a stand-alone 
condition, is excluded under the policy. And there isnt medical evidence that a mental health 
condition is also suspected, so the exception to the exclusion doesnt apply in the 
circumstances of this claim. 
I know this will be disappointing to Mr E, but I dont think there are reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly ask Bupa to accept this claim. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman