DRN-3269040
The complaint
Mr S complains that his Equifax Limited credit report didnt hold any record of him on the 
electoral register.
What happened
In early 2021, Mr S complained to Equifax that he didnt appear on the electoral roll on his 
credit report. Mr S said that hed brought the same problem to Equifaxs attention back in 
2016. He was concerned because of the negative impact this would have on his credit file.
Equifax explained that the electoral roll information didnt load because Mr Ss address 
appeared twice on its database. Equifax said it had corrected the problem by merging the 
two addresses it held for Mr S. Equifax apologised and offered £100 compensation. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Equifaxs offer of compensation so brought his complaint to this 
service. The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint be upheld. He agreed that 
Equifax shouldve resolved the problem in 2016 but noted that Mr S had still been able to 
obtain credit during the intervening period. This indicated that Mr S hadnt lost out financially 
because of the error. So, the investigator thought that £100 compensation was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint.
Mr S disagrees with the investigator and points to a problem he had in 2019 obtaining credit 
after a business carried out a check using Equifax. Mr S says Equifax promised to sort 
things out in 2016. Hes unhappy that Equifax doesnt have any record of his complaint in 
2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
I understand Mr Ss strength of feeling about the problems hes faced trying to sort 
everything out with Equifax. Mistakes in the reporting and recording of credit information can 
happen. And Equifax is reliant on the data suppliers to provide the correct information.
When mistakes happen, I look at whether the credit reference agency involved  in this case 
Equifax  has taken appropriate action to put things right.
It appears that much of the problem stems from the fact that Mr Ss council uses a slightly 
different address format for him that omits a word from the first line of his address. This led 
to Equifax holding two different address formats for Mr S. 
As the investigator told Mr S, Equifax says it doesnt have any record of his complaint in 
2016. I can understand Mr Ss concerns about this, but Ive accepted what Equifax has told 
us as it doesnt change my decision. 
I agree that Equifax shouldve resolved the problem back in 2016 but Mr S didnt complain 
again until early 2021. This indicates to me that for several years, Mr S was unaware that 
Equifax wasnt reporting him as being on the electoral roll. So, I cant say that Mr S was 
subjected to an extended period of worry or trouble during the intervening period. This 
makes it harder for me to find that Equifax should increase the amount of compensation that 
it has offered to Mr S.
I also dont have enough evidence to conclude that Equifaxs mistake directly led to Mr S 
being turned down for credit. Mr S points to an email he received in 2019 detailing how his 
application for a new mobile phone contract was declined after a mobile phone company 
carried out a credit check using Equifax. But I cant conclude from the email that Mr Ss 
credit application was declined because Equifax wasnt reporting him on the electoral roll. 
Particularly as two days later, Mr S was able to successfully purchase a new phone with the 
same mobile phone company direct. 
This service isnt a regulator, so my role isnt to punish or fine Equifax. And this isnt a 
situation where Mr S has had to repeatedly ask Equifax to put things right since 2016. Once 
Mr S raised his concerns again in early 2021, Equifax responded reasonably promptly. As 
far as Im aware, the problem has been put right. If this isnt the case, Mr S can of course 
make another complaint. 
Mr S recently sent this service a screenshot of his current Equifax credit score of 1000 which 
contrasts with his credit score in March 2021 of 531. Im not sure if Mr S is aware but Equifax 
changed its credit score scale in April 2021. Scores are now calculated out of 1000 whereas 
previously Equifax calculated them out of 700. Both of Mr Ss credit scores are considered 
excellent by Equifax so I dont have anything further to add. If Mr S remains concerned about 
the scores, I suggest he take this up with Equifax.
Overall, Im satisfied that Equifaxs offer to pay Mr S £100 compensation adequately reflects 
the impact the mistake has had on him. 
My final decision
My decision is that Equifax Limited should pay Mr S £100 if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman