DRN-4010521
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC prevented him securing the new fixed rate 
mortgage product he wanted because of issues with its online, mobile app and telephone 
facilities.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr Hs mortgage with Barclays had approximately £66,000 left to pay and 
approximately 14 years remaining. He says he wanted a new fixed rate product so, on       
24 June 2022, he called Barclays to discuss his plan. During that call Barclays told Mr H 
about the rates it currently had available  Mr H was interested in 7 and 10 year fixed rates  
and Barclays told Mr H about the ways he could apply for the rate. Mr H called Barclays 
again on 27 June 2022  that time to discuss early redemption charges (ERCs). He was told 
an £80 exit fee applied, and if he wanted to make over payments to a new 10 year fixed rate 
product he could pay up to 5% a year without an ERC applying.
Mr H says Barclays advised him to use its app to apply for the new mortgage rate product. 
He said he tried to do so since his call of 27 June 2022, but each time he tried the mortgage 
products wouldnt load. Mr H says he tried to call Barclays at different times of the day over 
many days but couldnt get through due to the high call volumes Barclays was experiencing 
at that time.
When Mr H tried on 6 July 2022, the rates loaded but had changed and were higher than 
when hed wanted to apply. He also managed to get through to Barclays on the phone and 
was told the rates changed on 5 July 2022. Mr H says, during that conversation, Barclays 
acknowledged that the app wasnt working on 2 and 3 July 2022 and its phone lines were 
extremely busy on 4 July 2022. Mr H did switch to a new rate product, but he says the 
increased rate will cost him an additional £2,400 over the fixed rate period, compared to the 
rate he wanted. He thinks Barclays should have informed its mortgage customers it was 
about to increase its rates. And, to resolve his complaint, he thinks Barclays should put him 
on the rate he wanted.
Mr H complained to Barclays. Barclays letter to him dated 8 July 2022 says it discussed    
Mr Hs complaint with him and it was resolved and closed. But the letter gave no further 
details about that conversation. In its submissions to us, Barclays says it told Mr H he could 
complete the rate switch with one of its mortgage advisors. And it provided us with a 
transcript of that call along with a transcript of the call made on 27 June 2022 and a 
recording of the call made on 7 July 2022. It says its records show that Mr H made no other 
call attempts around that time.
Barclays has also provided us with copies of its mobile and online banking logs where they 
relate specifically to Mr Hs activity around that time. It says they show that Mr H was able to 
log in via the app and there is no evidence of error messages, or the issues Mr H has said 
he experienced. But Barclays says it offered to pay Mr H £200, giving him the benefit of the 
doubt about those issues.
Mr H didnt agree and asked us to consider his complaint. Our investigator said he hadnt 
seen evidence that Mr H tried to secure the interest rate product he wanted via the 
telephone or online between 28 June 2022 and 6 July 2022. And he said Barclays has 
shown that its app wasnt working only for several hours during 2 July 2022. So, our 
investigator concluded that Barclays offer of £200 was fair in the circumstances and it 
neednt do any more to resolve Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H didnt agree. He said he couldnt have used Barclays website in any event because he 
doesnt have a passcode. He says Barclays has always encouraged him to use the app 
when hes made the choice about which interest rate product to take. And he used other 
telephone numbers from which to call Barclays around that time.
As Mr H didnt agree with our investigators opinion, his complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr Hs complaint, Ive thought about whether he was prevented from obtaining the 
rate he wanted by limitations in the application methods available. And whether Barclays 
caused those limitations.
The evidence available and the submissions of both parties suggest there were three 
methods by which Mr M could have applied for his new interest rate product:
By telephone  with a Barclays mortgage advisor.
Online  via Barclays website.
Using a mobile phone  via Barclays mobile banking app.
Ill consider each of those methods in turn.
By telephone
During Mr Hs call with Barclays on 24 June 2022, Barclays offered to book an appointment 
with a mortgage advisor. So, I think Mr H knew that option was available to him. But I think 
he ended the call of 24 June 2022 thinking hed use the mobile banking app, so didnt take 
up the option to book an appointment with an advisor.
Mr H says  having had difficulty with the mobile banking app  he tried to call Barclays at 
different times of the day over many days but couldnt get through due to the high call 
volumes Barclays was experiencing at that time. Barclays says it has found evidence of the 
calls Mr H made on 24 and 27 June 2022 and that of 7 July but none in between. Mr H says 
he also used other telephones around that time.
Mr H hasnt provided evidence of the other phones he used at that time, but I dont think that 
necessarily means he didnt do so. But the absence of any evidence means I cant establish 
whether his attempts were reasonable under the circumstances. And hes also said during 
his dealings with us that his memory of exactly what he did isnt clear. So, again, that doesnt 
lead me to conclude he made a reasonable number of attempts. That said, I dont doubt that 
Barclays phone lines were busy  possibly for long spells during that time. But I havent seen 
evidence to persuade me that Mr H held-on for a reasonable amount of time before deciding 
his call wouldnt be answered. Online
During Mr Hs call with Barclays on 24 June 2022, Barclays told him he could use the online 
banking facility on Barclays website. Mr H has said he has always been encouraged to use 
the app and even Barclays adverts promote the app rather than the website. I understand 
that, but Barclays did tell him he could apply on its website. And, during the call of 24 June 
2022, Barclays offered to check Mr Hs online banking for him and asked if he had a laptop 
computer. Mr H said he didnt, but he did have a mobile phone.
Mr H says he couldnt use the website because Barclays didnt send him log-in details. It 
may be that he didnt have easy access to a personal computer or laptop either. I think its 
reasonable that not all the methods of application Barclays makes available, suit all its 
customers. But I think, if Mr H had made Barclays aware that he didnt have log-in details, 
its likely it would have sent him new ones. So, I dont think Barclays were at fault for 
anything in that regard.
Using a mobile phone
Its clear from the call of 24 June 2022 that using Barclays mobile app was Mr Hs preferred 
choice. 
Barclays has provided a recording of Mr Hs call to it of 7 July 2022. During that call, he said 
hes tried online, via telephone and via the app, but hadnt been successful. But, later in the 
call Barclays informed him the rate product he wanted was no longer available. Mr H also 
says he was told the mobile app was not working on 2 and 3 July 2022.
Barclays has provided the error log for its online banking around that time. That shows that 
some customers may have had difficulty logging in for some of 2 July 2022. Its not clear 
from that whether the mobile bank app is included in that summary. But Barclays has also 
provided a summary of all the time Mr H tried to log into the mobile app. That showed he 
tried several times on 3, 6 and 7 July 2022, but not on 29 or 30 June and 1, 2 or 4 July 2022. 
I think that shows that there were days when Mr H didnt try to log into his mobile bank app 
at all. 
Summary
It isnt possible from the submissions and evidence from both parties to get a clear picture of 
how often and for how long Mr H tried to contact Barclays to apply for his new rate product. 
Nor is it clear how busy Barclays telephone lines were or how long the mobile app was 
unavailable for. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Mr H to have spent all his time 
over the few days between his call of 27 July and the withdrawal of the rate on 4 July 2022 in 
a telephone queue or trying to log on to Barclays app. But Im not persuaded by what Ive 
seen that Barclays telephone lines were so busy that Mr H couldnt have got through if hed 
persisted or that the mobile phone app was unavailable for a sustained period. Im mindful 
that Mr H may not have been able to access the app at some time due to signal issues at his 
end  though I cant know that was the case.
I think its reasonable that a consumer of any business is aware that they may have to wait in 
a queue for a specific service. That isnt always convenient, but it is something a consumer 
has to deal with. Mr H was able to get through on other occasions so that shows that 
Barclays phone lines werent always too busy for him. I also think the use of online and 
banking and mobile apps is subject to technological difficulties from time to time. But Im not 
persuaded that mobile banking app was unavailable for such a sustained period that Mr H 
was prevented from making his application.Mr H couldnt have known when Barclays was going to withdraw the rate he wanted. And 
lenders arent obliged to give their customers warnings when they do. I do understand        
Mr Hs frustration at missing the mortgage interest rate he wanted on this occasion. But, on 
balance, I dont think Barclays was at fault for that because I dont think its technical 
difficulties were sufficient to prevent him from doing so. Barclays has offered Mr H £200 
because of the difficulties he experienced. I think thats fair. But I dont think Barclays needs 
to offer him the rate he wanted, so I wont direct it to do so.
As Barclays had already made an offer which I think is fair before Mr H brought the matter to 
us, I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC. But 
Barclays should pay Mr H the £200 it has offered if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman