DRN-3407949
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Mars Capital Finance Limited (Mars) is not supporting them in 
relation to their second charge mortgage whilst they are facing financial difficulties.
What happened
In November 2006, Mr and Mrs H took out a second charge mortgage for £38,000 over a 
term of 25 years secured against their property. Mars acquired the loan account from the 
previous lender in May 2019, therefore I will refer to Mars throughout my decision for ease.
Mr and Mrs H complain that Mars is not treating them fairly whilst they are facing financial 
difficulties. They say theyve asked Mars to help by freezing the interest or reducing their 
monthly repayment but instead Mars is frequently contacting them about repossession. Mr 
and Mrs H also say the balance of their mortgage is more than they originally borrowed and 
they are struggling to pay it back. This is severely impacting upon both Mr and Mrs Hs 
mental health.
Mars disagrees that it has not treated Mr and Mrs H fairly or taken their circumstances into 
consideration. It says that Mr and Mrs H have not provided details of their income and 
expenditure (I&E) following several requests, so it has therefore been unable to fully review 
the options available. Mars put a payment holiday in place from December 2021 until May 
2021 in order to give them some breathing space and time to return the I&E to allow it to 
review the options. However, this has still not been provided. 
Mars says that it is responsible for making Mr and Mrs H aware of any potential next steps 
with the account. Given the high amount of arrears, it may consider legal action in the future 
but it is not considering legal action at present. Mars says that it would not be fair to allow 
the arrears balance to continue to increase as there is also interest on overdue payments so 
this may be reviewed in future. It says that it has found no evidence to suggest it has 
constantly advised Mr and Mrs H about repossession. 
In relation to the balance being larger than the amount originally taken, Mars says this is due 
to the agreed interest and as Mr and Mrs H have not always paid the agreed monthly 
payment.
Our investigator looked into this complaint and was of the view that Mars hadnt acted 
unreasonably and had been fair when approaching Mr and Mrs Hs financial difficulties. He 
didnt think it was unreasonable for Mars not to have considered forbearance options until Mr 
and Mrs H had provided evidence of their financial circumstances and encouraged them to 
engage with Mars and provide a completed I&E assessment so an agreement could be 
reached on how best to help their circumstances. 
In relation to the balance, the investigator was unable to see anything to suggest that Mars 
had administered the account unreasonably. He thought that, due to multiple missed 
payments, the balance had not reduced as expected over the term. In relation to the 
complaint about threats of repossession, the investigator was unable to say that Mars had 
regularly threatened repossession and when this had been mentioned it was during a 
conversation about next steps. The investigator therefore did not request that Mars do 
anything further. 
Mr and Mrs H disagree with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. Mr H says 
that the impact of the loan on his and Mrs Hs mental health has been glossed over and that 
Mars has shown a lack of understanding, compassion and empathy. They say that the 
balance is unrealistic and they are in an impossible situation and there is no accountability 
being placed on Mars. Mr and Mrs H feel that if they complete the I&E this will result in either 
Mars asking for money that they dont have every month or that if there is no affordability 
their home will be taken away so they feel they cant win. 
Mr and Mrs H have also complained that their mortgage was mis-sold. This service has 
already addressed a complaint they made against Mars in relation to the mis-sale and a final 
decision was issued in relation to this on 30 June 2021. So we wouldnt be able to look at 
this again and I havent considered it in my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigators 
view for broadly the same reasons and Ive explained my reasons further below.
Ive first looked at whether Mars has treated Mr and Mrs H fairly in light of their 
circumstances including their mental health and financial difficulties. 
I can see from the contact notes that Mr H sent an email in September 2019 advising Mars 
about his and his wifes deteriorating mental health and requesting that any correspondence 
was sent by email. This was something which Mr H said the previous lender had been aware 
of and was asking if this had been passed on. 
Mars responded on 3 October to advise Mr and Mrs H that it had updated the 
communication preferences going forward and that it had been made aware of the health 
conditions. However, it also noted that it did need to address the arrears on the account and 
work with them to agree a suitable and affordable arrangement. It explained that in order to 
do this it would need to carry out a financial review of Mr and Mrs Hs income and 
expenditure , including bank statements and pay slips. Mars also advised that regulatory 
letters would still need to be sent by post and that this was something it was not able to 
change.
Mr H wrote back the following day to indicate that this request had caused his and Mrs Hs 
mental health to deteriorate further, that the stress and anxiety was too much for him to send 
bank statements and that he wasnt willing to do this as it was an invasion of privacy. He 
questioned why Mars hadnt mentioned anything about whether the interest should be 
frozen. 
Mars responded on 18 October 2019 to explain that it was aware of the impact upon Mr and 
Mrs Hs health but without this information it would be unable to set up a formal agreement 
as it would be unable to make an informed decision as to what was affordable, which 
enables it to meet regulatory requirements. It requested the completed I&E again along with 
supporting documents in order that it could fully review their circumstances to set up an 
affordable repayment plan to clear the arrears.
Mr H contacted Mars on 7 November 2019 to advise that he wasnt able to pay the 
contractual amount and hadnt been for some time and he was told again that he would need 
to complete the I&E assessment. He asked about the interest being frozen and was advised 
that Mars would not do that at this stage. He went on to make a complaint about the mis-sale 
of the mortgage.
On 17 April 2020, Mars contacted Mr H to discuss the situation and inform him that a 
COVID-19 payment holiday would not be automatically applied and would need to be 
requested. On 23 June 2020, Mr H contacted Mars as he felt it wasnt supporting him. Mars advised again that it would need the I&E; Mr H said he would send this but not the bank 
statements and he was advised that he needed to send the bank statements. 
Mr H called again on 24 July 2020 to discuss his circumstances and was again advised to 
return the I&E in order for it to be able to review the affordability against the options available 
including concessions and interest only. Mars advised that it wouldnt be treating him fairly 
as a customer to allow the continued non-payment and for the balance to increase with no 
payment and no strategy, and that litigation might be considered unless it was able to do 
this. Following the call, Mr H asked Mars to send an amendable version of the I&E form or to 
post a copy as he had no access to a printer. Following this, Mars posted a further copy of 
the I&E documentation to Mr and Mrs H. 
On 6 August 2020 Mr H wrote to Mars to say that a mental health charity had told him it 
thought Mars should be writing off the loan. Mr H called Mars on 10 August 2020 and was 
told that documentation would be required for it to be able to consider the debt being written 
off and this would require medical evidence. Mr H said that he was not in the right frame of 
mind to discuss this and Mars agreed to call back in 16 days. Mars contacted Mr H again on 
26 August 2020 and explained that it would need a fully completed I&E in order to look at 
forbearance and medical evidence to consider writing off the loan. Following this, Mr H 
responded to indicate the impact of the phone calls and loan on his and Mrs Hs mental 
health.
On 17 September 2020 Mars indicated that it could apply some breathing space due to the 
circumstances and would stop any contact. It explained that FCA guidance allowed it to 
provide a three-month COVID-19 payment holiday if there had been any impact due to the 
pandemic and asked Mr H to let it know if this was required. Mr H responded on 22 
September 2020 to say that they would welcome the break and also asked for all information 
Mars held for the loan account. Mars indicated on 24 September 2020 that it wanted to 
continue to work with Mr and Mrs H and were looking at all the options. It explained the 
circumstances in which it could offer a payment holiday due to COVID-19 and how this 
would work. It also said that it would take Mr and Mrs Hs health into consideration but also 
that it had an obligation to try and maintain the account too. 
Mr H did not respond until 23 November 2020 indicating that Mr H was too unwell to sign the 
data subject access request and asked if there was any update on the options Mars could 
give to alleviate the stress. On 2 December 2020, Mars confirmed that it had reviewed the 
account and applied a six-month COVID-19 payment holiday to the account to run from 
December 2020 until May 2021 to ensure Mr and Mrs H were able to focus on their health 
and time for it to look into possible options going forward. When responding to Mr and Mrs 
Hs complaint in March 2021, Mars sent a further copy of the I&E form and asked that it be 
returned along with three months bank statements at the end of May 2021 in order to allow 
it to review any available options for the account at the end of the payment holiday.
Having looked at these records, I think that Mars has treated Mr and Mrs H fairly. It is clear 
that Mars has asked Mr and Mrs H to complete an I&E form and provide evidence of their 
financial circumstances on numerous occasions. However, this hasnt been received. 
Despite this, due to Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances, and as they did not confirm that they 
wished to accept the payment holiday in September 2020, two months breathing space was 
applied to the account. When Mars was informed about the deterioration in Mrs Hs health in 
November 2020, it applied a six-month payment holiday to the account from December 2020 
until May 2021. I think this was reasonable of Mars in the circumstances. However, this does 
not resolve the fact that the account is continuing to accrue interest and the arrears are 
increasing as no payments are being made since the payment holiday ended. 
Mars has continued to request details of Mr and Mrs Hs financial circumstances in order to 
review the options available to assist them and I dont think this is unreasonable. Mars lent 
them the money upon the agreement that this would be repaid over a certain period but unfortunately Mr and Mrs H have been unable to do this and no payments have been made 
on the loan at all for a considerable period of time. 
Whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs H are going through a difficult time, it is hard to see 
what Mars can do to help them unless they co-operate with providing the information 
requested. This is because Mars needs to understand their financial circumstances in order 
to review what forbearance options are available to them. For example, Mr and Mrs H have 
asked about the interest on the account being frozen. But there would be no benefit to 
freezing the interest if this wasnt a sustainable way of Mr and Mrs H repaying the loan as, if 
they were unable to afford to repay the capital, the situation would not be resolved. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr H thinks he is in a no-win situation in terms of either being asked 
to pay money he cant afford or having the house repossessed, this cannot be established 
unless he and Mrs H complete an I&E assessment. It is not in either partys interest for this 
situation to continue indefinitely and for the arrears to continue to increase as Mars is not 
getting back any of the money borrowed by Mr and Mrs H and, the longer the situation 
continues without any resolution, the more the arrears are taking up equity in the property, 
so Mr and Mrs H will be in a worse position in the long term. As set out above, in order to 
work out what forbearance options are available, Mars needs to be able to carry out an I&E 
assessment. I would therefore encourage Mr and Mrs to engage with Mars and provide this 
information in order to find a way forward. If it remains too difficult for them to engage with 
Mars directly, they may be able to seek debt advice and have a debt adviser deal with Mars 
on their behalf. 
Mars will also need to work with Mr and Mrs H and do the best it can in the circumstances  
for example, by agreeing to work with a third party on their behalf or by forgoing the need for 
supporting evidence alongside the I&E information if this is difficult for Mr and Mrs H to 
gather.
In relation to what Mr and Mrs H have said about the threats of repossession, Mars has 
made it clear that it is not currently taking legal action against them for possession of the 
property. 
I can see that Mars has sent Mr and Mrs H letters relating to the arrears on the account and 
that these do set out that failure to come to an arrangement to clear the outstanding amount 
due may result in it instructing solicitors to apply to the Court for an order for possession of 
their property to repay the loan. Although it is not obliged to send out these letters as the 
loan is unregulated, it is good industry practice for it to keep customers updated of arrears 
and potential next steps. I also note from the contact notes that Mars has also spoken about 
litigation when discussing possible next steps but I cant see from the contact notes that 
Mars has ever suggested that it has commenced repossession action against Mr and Mrs H.
As set out above, no repayments have been made on the loan for some time and Mr and 
Mrs H havent provided Mars with the information requested by completing the I&E form so 
that it can review the options available. Whilst I appreciate that mention of legal proceedings 
would be distressing for Mr and Mrs H, ultimately the loan is secured on their property, and I 
dont think it is unreasonable for Mars to set out the potential next steps if the arrears 
continue to increase and it is unable to assess forbearance options without the details 
requested.
In relation to the balance of the account now being more than the original amount borrowed, 
I can see from the loan agreement that the original loan amount was £38,000 to be repaid 
with interest over 25 years. The balance as of March 2022 was just over £65,000.
Whilst I appreciate that the balance is higher than Mr and Mrs H would have expected at this 
point in the term of the loan, this is due to the fact that many payments have been missed 
over the period of the loan. When a payment is missed, the balance doesnt reduce and so 
more interest is charged the following month. When many payments are missed, the 
additional interest can result in the balance increasing substantially, which is what has happened here. So as Mr and Mrs H have not been able to maintain the monthly 
repayments as agreed in the loan agreement, the balance has increased. So I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest that the balance is inaccurate. 
In some situations where this has happened, it might be appropriate for the lender to freeze 
interest so that future payments are used to reduce the balance and allow the loan to be 
repaid by the end of the term or in a reasonable period thereafter. Mr and Mrs H have asked 
Mars to consider this  I think its reasonable that it wanted to see whether Mr and Mrs H 
could afford to make payments if the interest was frozen before agreeing to do so. If Mr and 
Mrs H are now able to provide details of their income and expenditure, this should be one of 
the options Mars considers. 
Taking everything into account, I cant say that Mars has treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly or 
that it has acted unreasonably. Whilst I appreciate that they are going through a difficult time, 
I would encourage them to work with Mars in coming to a way forward. If it would be helpful 
for them to seek advice from a third party which might be able to liaise with Mars on their 
behalf, they should let the investigator know and he could put them in touch with 
organisations that might be able to assist. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H, but I can't say that Mars 
has acted unfairly in wanting to know more about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances before 
seeing whether there is anything it can do to help them, and therefore I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require Mars 
Capital Finance Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman