DRN-2967104
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a kitchen he financed through an agreement with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF). Hes 
also unhappy BPF released the funs to the supplier and he says he didnt receive a discount 
he was offered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr H made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Breach of contract
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the goods should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Mr H says that his kitchen wasnt of satisfactory quality.
I can see that some parts were damaged or missing but as the supplier replaced those parts 
I think they have provided an adequate resolution.
Mr H says there are also problems with a warped door and a drawer that wont close. Ive 
looked at the photographs of these issues that Mr H provided and have listened to the 
conversation Mr H had with our investigator when he explained the problems he was 
experiencing. 
The door is not aligned with the bottom of the cupboard, it doesnt seem warped, but Id 
agree it is misaligned. The kitchen was fitted by Mr Hs installer and the installation fees 
were not something that was financed through this agreement. Ive not seen sufficient 
evidence that this door couldnt be adjusted and realigned and on the evidence provided I 
think its more likely its an installation error than a problem with the product. 
The drawer appears not to close because the sink waste units are in the way. Mr H has 
explained that will require the back of the drawer to be cut away. The kitchen was supply 
only and BPF have explained that the terms of Mr Hs agreement with the supplier required 
the installer to check any designs. On that basis I dont think it would be fair to suggest there 
is a problem with the supply of the kitchen and Im not persuaded there has been a breach of 
contract.
Start date
Mr H says it was unfair of BPF to pay the funds to the supplier when he was in dispute with 
them. The contract says:
We will pay the amount of the loan to the retailer once we approve the loan and receive the 
signed agreement or when the retailer has supplied the goods or services to you, if this is 
later.
So, I dont think BPF could fairly withhold payment.
BPF explained that Mr H could withdraw from the credit agreement within 14 days. In those 
circumstances Mr H would no longer be responsible for the credit as that wouldnt be paid to 
the supplier by BPF. But Mr H would still be responsible for paying for the kitchen.
The contract he had with BPF was a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) agreement. The contract 
explained that Mr Hs first repayment was:
12 months from the date we pay the retailer.
BPF paid the supplier in October 2019 and the BNPL clock started then. I understand Mr H 
says the whole kitchen hadnt been supplied at that point but as BPF were committed to 
paying the supplier once goods were supplied, and because the vast majority of goods were 
supplied by the time they paid the supplier, I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest 
the 12 month BNPL period should have been further delayed.
Discount
Mr H says he was offered an additional 10% landlords discount that was to be paid to him 
once the finance was agreed. Its clear a 10% discount was applied to the original quoted costs, but Ive not seen any 
further evidence that the supplier or BPF offered a further discount. On that basis it wouldnt 
be fair to suggest a further discount is due.
Refunds and compensation
I can see that the supplier agreed to refund the cost of a door and to pay Mr H some 
compensation in respect of the delays hed experienced. 
Whilst legislation holds BPF responsible for what was said by the broker of the finance 
agreement when the agreement was negotiated, I dont think it would be fair to hold them 
responsible for any offers the supplier has made in relation to service provided. 
And, even if Im wrong about that, the business have provided information to suggest those 
payments were made to Mr Hs account with the supplier. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman