DRN-3389262
The complaint
Mr C and Ms B complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont confirm that it provided a 
mortgage to them on the basis the security property is a two-storey dwelling with an integral 
garage. Mr C asks that Barclays confirms this in writing. Mr C has dealt with the complaint 
throughout. 
What happened
Mr C says he called Barclays in March 2021 and asked it to confirm that their mortgage was 
provided on the basis the security property is a two-storey dwelling with an integral garage. 
He says Barclays said on the call it would provide this information. It later said it wouldnt.
Mr C says this information is all he wants  he doesnt need a copy of the valuation report or 
any information from the valuation report. 
Our investigator said Barclays doesnt have to provide this information to Mr C. Barclays 
offered £50 for mis-informing Mr C when he called, and our investigator said this was fair.
Mr C and Ms B didnt agree. Mr C said it was extremely important this matter is addressed in 
full. He says Barclays provided a mortgage on their property and can easily confirm if its a 
terrace house or detached property. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says he wants to make it clear that he isnt asking for a copy of the valuation report, or 
any details contained within it. He says he has no dispute with the mortgage or the value of 
the mortgage provided. He says he is simply asking that the mortgage provided, approved 
and now paid was based on a two-storey dwelling with an integral garage. He wants this 
confirmation in writing. He says this request is not linked to any detail associated with the 
valuation report. Mr C hasnt told Barclays or us why he wants this information. 
Barclays provided Mr C with a loan, which is now repaid. The loan was secured by a charge 
(the mortgage) on Mr Cs property. As part of its lending decision, Barclays had to assess 
whether the property was good security for the loan. It asked for a valuation of the property. 
Most likely it asked a solicitor to check the property title, provide a report on title and ensure 
its charge was effective. These processes were for Barclays benefit, to help it assess 
whether the property was good security for its loan.
While Mr C says its a simple matter for Barclays to provide the confirmation he asked for, I 
dont know if that is in fact correct. I dont know whether or not the information Mr C asks 
Barclays to confirm was contained within the information and documents Barclays received 
when it made its lending decision. I dont know how easy it would be for Barclays to find this 
information and provide the confirmation. 
While Mr C says this matter is extremely important, he hasnt said why he wants this 
confirmation. He doesnt have to do so. But I have to be fair to both parties. Mr C says he 
has no dispute with the mortgage or the value of the mortgage provided, and his request 
isnt linked to any detail associated with the valuation report  so presumably he doesnt 
dispute the valuation. Mr C says the mortgage has been paid, so Barclays no longer has a 
charge on the property. 
Im not persuaded Mr C and Ms B have a sufficiently compelling need for the confirmation to 
make it fair and reasonable to require Barclays to look for the information and provide the 
confirmation Mr C asks for. 
When Mr C first called Barclays about this matter it told him it would provide the information 
he asked for. That was incorrect. However, Barclays soon gave Mr C correct information 
(that it wouldnt provide the confirmation). 
Barclays referred to the valuation report when responding to Mr Cs complaint. Mr C says he 
isnt asking for the valuation report or any details within it. He says the basic information he 
requires is not held within the valuation report. I appreciate Mr Cs frustration that Barclays 
misunderstood his request. 
Barclays offered £50 as an apology for giving Mr C incorrect information suggesting it would 
provide the confirmation he asks for. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Based on the available evidence, I dont think giving this incorrect information to Mr C and 
Ms B caused loss, worry or inconvenience such that would make it fair and reasonable to 
require Barclays to pay further compensation or to take any further steps. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £50 to Mr C and Ms B as it offered to 
do, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman