DRN-2421871
The complaint
Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P are unhappy because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) 
hasnt refunded they paid for their single trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P bought a single trip travel insurance policy on 8 September 2019. 
They bought this to cover a holiday from 28 March 2020 to 10 April 2020. They paid £474.02 
for a standard level of cover and which covered all three of them. In addition to that Mrs P 
had some declared medical conditions. They also received a discount of £69.12 on the 
policy.
The holiday was cancelled on 16 March 2020 and on 20 March 2020, Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P 
contacted their broker to cancel their travel insurance policy. 
The policy was cancelled outside of the 14 day cooling off period and so a refund wasnt 
possible. Great Lakes said it would normally offer customers to move single trip dates to 
within 18 months of the original purchase date free of charge or the option for a pro rata 
refund, which would be valid for 36 months and which could be used against a new policy. 
However, due to the time left on the policy, the credit voucher amount showed a being £0 so 
no credit was due. As such Great Lakes offered Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P 20% off the base 
price of a future new policy.  
Unhappy, Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P complained to Great Lakes and then brought their 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs Ps 
complaint. She was satisfied that Great Lakes had offered them a fair resolution even though 
there was no requirement for them to be given one. Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
Mrs P says they paid a lot of money for the insurance and no-one knew COVID-19 would hit 
meaning their holiday would have to be cancelled. She says its not their fault the holiday 
didnt go ahead, and they believe they should be refunded for the insurance they paid 
instead of 20% off any future insurance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P held have a cooling off 
period of 14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. 
This is called the right to cancel.
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the
differences are clearly explained.
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk).
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that relates to 
the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is material 
unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate method. The sum 
should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount commensurate to the risk incurred.
Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under 
industry rules, even if they had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they wouldnt be entitled 
to a full refund of the premium paid. This is because Great Lakes covered the risk of them 
cancelling the upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time.
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs Ps insurance policy with Great Lakes 
outline their cancellation rights under the contract. 
These say:
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall
take effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice,
whichever is later.
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or
intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day coolingoff period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Great Lakes cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to them 
than is required by industry rules. But they bought the policy on 8 September 2019 and 
cancelled it on 20 March 2020. This was more than 14 days after they bought the policy.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider
the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term
relating to discretion is intended to cover.
This means I dont think Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P are entitled to any refund of premiums under 
the terms and conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the
complaint.
I understand Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P planned a trip  and therefore the need for this single 
trip insurance policy changed due to circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought 
about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from
industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P contract because of 
the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties
to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mrs A, Mr B and 
Mrs Ps contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 8 
September 2019.
Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price
set by Great Lakes also covered them for cancellation from the policy start date. So, the 
premium they paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to any of a 
number of listed events insured under the policy including, for example, Ms P falling ill with a 
declared pre-existing medical condition.
Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P making a successful claim on 
the policy from its start date of 8 September 2020 until their holiday was cancelled on 
16 March 2020. Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had 
commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not 
returnable. So, regardless of what Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs Ps cancellation rights were, it isnt 
unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time.
However, after the date the holiday was cancelled due to Covid-19, Great Lakes didnt bear
any risk under Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs Ps insurance policy. The holiday had already been 
cancelled due to Covid-19 and Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in relation to this. Great 
Lakes was therefore no longer carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for
any other insured reason. And, as the holiday was no longer going ahead, Great Lakes was
also no longer carrying the risk of any claim being made while Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P were 
travelling abroad.
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19
pandemic, I think it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to offer Mrs A, Mr B and 
Ms P a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their single trip travel insurance policy 
from the date the holiday was cancelled. However, Great Lakes calculation confirms that no 
refund was due, because of the limited time left on the policy. Im satisfied this calculation 
was correct. So, as a gesture of goodwill, Great Lakes have offered Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P a 
20% discount off their next policy. I understand their comments that dont wish to use this discount against a new policy. 
However, under the terms and conditions of their policy, Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs P arent 
entitled to any premium refund and Great Lakes also explained it wouldnt be possible to 
defer the policy.
Overall, Im satisfied the 20% discount which Great Lakes has offered goes beyond what it is
required to do, and the offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont be 
asking Great Lakes to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs A, Mr B and Mrs Ps complaint against 
Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A, Mr B and 
Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman