DRN-2175013
The complaint
Mrs As unhappy with Assurant General Insurance Limiteds decision to decline her mobile 
phone insurance claim.
All references to Assurant include its claims-handling agents. 
What happened
Briefly, Mrs A had mobile phone insurance through her bank account. Mrs A lost her smart 
phone in December 2019 and contacted Assurant the next day to claim on her policy.
As part of its claim investigation, Assurant asked Mrs A various questions including when 
shed last used the phone and whether the phones remote location tracking feature had 
been turned on.  
Mrs A provided the information she could, but Assurant had concerns about the claim as it 
felt she hadnt provided everything it had asked for and because it believed there were 
inconsistencies in some of the things Mrs A had said. As such, it declined the claim.
Mrs A was unhappy with Assurants decision and its handling of the claim, so she 
complained to us. One of our investigators looked in to the complaint and recommended that 
it be upheld in part. They were satisfied that, while there were some inconsistencies in 
Mrs As account, this was probably due more to a lack of understanding of the phone and its 
features on her part than any intention to mislead Assurant. But the investigator didnt 
believe Assurant had otherwise mis-handled the claim, which they asked Assurant to 
reassess.
Since Assurant still didnt agree with the investigators assessment, the complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where its appropriate. Ive considered whether Assurant acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mrs A. Ive taken into account both sides views. But, where 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then Ive to come to a decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, I consider whats more likely than not to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
The starting point for me is the policy terms. The policy doesnt provide for an exhaustive list 
of documents or information that Mrs A was required to provide Assurant with in the event of 
a claim for loss. But what it did say was that it might require proof of ownership as well as:
 additional information and documentation in order to assess your claim.
This could include documentation to show when the device was last used, when any 
loss or theft was reported to your network, or to verify your identity. We will confirm 
what is required, if anything, during the claims process.
The policy terms also stressed the importance of claimants taking reasonable care when 
answering questions and doing so honestly and to the best of their knowledge.
So, its clear that Assurant was entitled to ask for a reasonable level of detail and 
documentation from Mrs A to support her claim. And, if such information wasnt adequate, 
then the payment of the claim might be affected.
 
I've also looked at the evidence supplied and considered the timeline of events. When Mrs A 
first made her claim to Assurant it reasonably asked for further information. For example, 
when asked, Mrs A said she last used the phone at around 10.30 to 10.45am the day it was 
lost. She also seemed to confirm that the phones tracking feature had been turned on, albeit 
she couldnt subsequently track the phone.
 
Regarding when the phone was last used, Mrs As network providers itemised bill shows the 
phone was used to make a call on the day of the loss at 7.22am. Thats more than three 
hours before Mrs A told Assurant shed last used the phone. However, I think this 
discrepancy could be explained by Mrs A being under the understanding that using the 
phone also included activities such as, say, reviewing messages, making notes or listening 
to music. That is, not just to make or receive calls. When Assurant asked her about her 
phone usage, it didnt make it clear it was specifically asking when she last made a call.
 
In terms of the tracking feature, its not in dispute now that this wasnt turn on when the 
phone was lost. I accept that Mrs A did indicate to Assurant initially that the feature was 
turned on at the time. However, I dont think that was because Mrs A intended to mis-lead 
Assurant. Having listened to the calls provided and reviewed the available information, it 
seems to me that Mrs A didnt have a good knowledge of all the phones security features. 
For instance, I can see that when Assurant asked her whether shed activated the phones 
lost mode, she didnt understand what that was, and Assurant agreed to send her step-by-
step-instructions on how to activate it.
   
I think its likely that Mrs A didnt fully understand the phones tracking feature and genuinely 
believed shed turned it on when, in fact, she hadnt. I dont dispute that she had the 
opportunity to explain that she didnt understand the feature. Nevertheless, that doesnt 
mean that she didnt honestly believe it had been activated.
 
Assurants pointed us to another complaint weve dealt with, from another consumer, 
whereby there were inconsistencies in the consumers testimony. We didnt uphold that 
complaint. I myself have decided not to uphold some other mobile phone insurance 
complaints in the past involving significant discrepancies. Having said that, its important to 
emphasise that each complaint turns on its own circumstances. I dont know all the facts of 
the complaint Assurant refers to, but I can see that concerned whether the consumer owned 
the devices being claimed as lost. There are no such doubts in this case.
   
Finally, Ive carefully considered Assurants handling of the claim and the time it took to 
assess it. In summary, I believe Assurant acted as promptly as could reasonably be 
expected given the nature of the claim and the gaps in the information. I note, for a time, it 
was also awaiting receipt of information from a third party  Mrs As network provider  
before concluding its investigation.
 
Overall, I dont consider that Assurant delayed or otherwise mis-handled the claim.  Putting things right
I direct Assurant to reassess Mrs As claim in the light of the above findings and in line with 
the remaining policy terms and conditions.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I require Assurant 
General Insurance Limited to put things right for Mrs A as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman