DRN-2337641
The complaint
Mr M complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly rejected his claim on 
his landlord insurance policy.
 
What happened
In February 2020, a roof tile fell off the roof of a property Mr M rents out. Mr M says it fell 
following a storm. It damaged the tenants car. Mr M had the roof fixed and personally 
covered the repair cost of the damage to his tenants car. He then made a claim under the 
Legal Liabilities section of his landlord insurance policy to get the money hed spent back.
A loss adjuster investigated the claim. They noted that Mr M had no written records of the 
inspections he said he carried out regularly on the house. So Fairmead decided to decline 
the claim because of a breach of one the policy conditions. 
Mr M disagreed. He said hed had contractors working at roof level within the six months 
before the claim incident. He said they wouldve noticed any damage at the time. And he 
said he felt Fairmead was declining his claim on a technicality, so it was unfair. Mr M brought 
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He gave a number of reasons why he didnt think 
Fairmead could fairly rely on Mr Ms failure to meet the inspections condition to void the 
claim. Fairmead didnt agree. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I've decided to uphold it. 
The policy terms and conditions set out certain requirements that are designed to reduce the 
risk of an insured event occurring. And which the policyholder must comply with in order for 
the insurer to cover a given claim. The condition listed under 10. Inspections of the policy 
document states:
The property must be inspected both externally and internally at least every 6 months
by you or your representative, to confirm that the property is maintained in a good
state of repair, notwithstanding the requirements of Empty or unoccupied Property as
prescribed on page 21 for Sections 1 and 2. Records of these inspections must be kept
and made available to us on request.
Fairmead have suggested that Mr Ms has breached the above condition. They say that this 
means they can decline his claim. 
The key issues Ive considered in deciding whether I think Fairmead have acted fairly are: 
1. Has Mr M breached the above condition? 
2. If so, is it fair for Fairmead to rely on this breach to decline the claim? 
Has Mr M breached the condition?
Theres evidence that Mr M did keep the property well-maintained. And did carry out regular 
inspections. But looking at the wording in the policy terms and conditions, it could be argued 
that Mr M didnt comply with the terms of the condition, as he didnt keep records of these 
inspections. This is Fairmeads position. 
But the policy doesnt define what it means to keep records. As its not specified, almost 
anything could be acceptable. So its difficult to determine whether or not Mr M failed to 
comply. But for now I will look at whether a breach of this condition wouldve increased the 
risk of the loss occurring. 
Has Fairmead declined the claim fairly?
Section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015 requires an insurers position to have been prejudiced 
before theyre able to rely on the non-compliance of a condition to decline liability. 
Specifically, the Act says that if a loss occurs, and a policy term hasnt been complied with, 
the insurer may not rely on the non-compliance to exclude, limit or discharge its liability 
under the contract if the insured can show that the non-compliance with the term couldnt 
have increased the risk of the loss that occurred.
Im persuaded that Mr M has shown that his possible non-compliance of the condition didnt 
make the loss more likely. This is because hes confirmed he carries out inspections. Hes 
provided evidence of the work undertaken. That shows that the property, including the roof, 
had been inspected in the six-month period prior to the claim incident. Its also proof that he 
carries out any required maintenance when its needed. I note that if Mr M had kept details of 
the inspections hed actually carried out, its likely he wouldnt have been charged with 
breaching the condition. But that recording whatd been done wouldnt have made any 
difference to the risk.
I can also see that the loss adjuster noted that there were storm force winds on the day of 
the incident. So, on balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that the tile wouldve blown off 
even if the roof had been inspected, and that inspection recorded, the day before. There was 
a storm, accepted as such, so a valid claim should be possible. No amount of inspections in 
advance wouldve made any difference. And therefore Fairmead should deal with claim.
Im satisfied that its not fair or reasonable for Fairmead to rely on Mr Ms possible breach of 
the inspection condition to decline his claim.
 
Putting things right
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to reconsider Mr Ms claim in accordance with the
remaining terms of the policy.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman