DRN-1467669
 
The complaint
Mrs R complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly increased  her credit card limit. 
What happened
Mrs R says she has been making minimum payments towards her TSB credit card debt for 
some time. She says TSB has written to her about just making minimum payments but at the 
same time has increased the credit limit on her account. Mrs R says that has caused her 
financial difficulty and would like an apology for how she has been treated and compensation 
for the stress TSB's actions have caused.
TSB says the account terms and conditions allow it to increase a customers credit limit and 
that customer can reject any increase. It says Mrs R told it in August 2019 that she didn't 
wish to have any account credit limits and it's updated its records. TSB says it has no record 
of Mrs R telling it about any financial difficulties and can't find any record of any credit limit 
increases but says the credit limit was decreased in early 2017.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought TSB's account terms and conditions allowed it to increase a credit limit. And didn't 
think Mrs R had told TSB about any financial difficulties. So the investigator thought 
TSB hadn't made a mistake .
Mrs R doesn't accept that view and has asked for an ombudsman's review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mrs R will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mrs R would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And I can see that in line with those terms and conditions 
TSB is entitled to increase or decrease the credit limit. So I don't think TSB would have 
made a mistake by making a change to the credit card limit. I also think that if Mrs R didn't 
want to accept any credit limit increases that she was free to reject them.
I have also looked at TSB's records and the credit card statements since 2016. And I can't 
see any evidence that the credit limit has been increased but can see it was reduced in 
2017. I can also see that up until 2019 Mrs R used her credit card for spending and it was 
from then that the spending stopped and just minimum payments were made. So I can't see 
any evidence that TSB has been increasing the credit card limit whilst at the same time 
sending Mrs R letters about making minimum payments.
I don't think TSB has any record of Mrs R telling it about any financial difficulties in any event 
and I don't think in these circumstances TSB is responsible for Mrs R's use of the credit 
card.I accept that TSB did send Mrs R letters about making minimum payments and I accept that 
if there were credit card limit increases at the same time, then on the face of it those actions 
would appear to be contradictory. But for the reasons I have explained I don't think there 
were any actual increases since at least 2016.
Overall I don't think TSB has made a mistake or acted unfairly and so I can't ask it to 
apologise to Mrs R or pay her compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman