DRN-3261144
The complaint
Ms T has complained about the way Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros 
y Reaseguros, S.A (Mapfre) handled her claim.
What happened
Ms T had a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Mapfre. She was due to travel abroad 
but had to cancel her trip as a result of an incident relating to her son. 
Ms T made a claim for cancellation of her holiday. Ms T gave Mapfre a crime reference 
number and explained what happened.
Mapfre asked Ms T for medical evidence relating to her son but she said she didnt have 
access to his records as he was over 18 and she didnt want to distress him by asking him 
for any information relating to the incident.
Mapfre declined the claim on the basis that it didnt have enough evidence. Ms T complained 
and unhappy with Mapfres response, referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint but didnt think Mapfre had done anything wrong as it had acted 
within the terms of the policy. In addition, during this investigation, Mapfre agreed to pay the 
claim.
Ms T remained unhappy and in summary, made the following comments:
Mapfres request for the medical evidence was unlawful. She was harassed to 
disclose information which it ultimately didnt need
Ms T says she felt bullied and data protection laws were ignored 
Ms T has been legally advised that an insurance company can settle a claim based 
on reasonable proof, which she had provided 
When Ms T did obtain her sons consent, the hospital refused to provide the records 
and so Mapfre should compel the hospital to provide that information under data 
protection laws
Ms T would like an investigation into why the hospital wont disclose medical records
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mapfre has done anything wrong. Ill explain why. 
I issued my provisional decision on 20 December 2021. Neither party responded to that and 
so I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings which Ive set out in full below. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Mapfres policy says it will pay for irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and 
other pre-paid charges if the cancellation of the trip is necessary and unavoidable due to 
bodily injury or illness of a close relative.
But there are special conditions in the policy which say:
If you cancel the trip due to bodily injury, illnessyou must provide a medical 
certificate from the medical practitioner of the person whose condition has led to the 
cancellation stating this was necessary and unavoidable. 
Based on the above, Mapfre explained why it needed Ms Ts sons medical evidence. But it 
took into account that Ms T didnt want to ask her son to provide his permission for medical 
evidence. And it suggested a reasonable alternative  that it would consider a police report 
instead. Ms T did provide Mapfre with a crime reference number. But Ive seen no evidence 
that a full police report was obtained and sent to Mapfre. As Mapfre provided Ms T with an 
alternative way of proving her claim, Im satisfied it acted reasonably. The evidence 
requested by Mapfre was clearly set out in the terms and conditions of Ms Ts travel 
insurance policy which forms the contract between Mapfre and Ms T. So I dont agree it did 
anything wrong by asking for this evidence. 
Ms T did eventually agree to obtain her sons consent for access to his medical records. But 
Mapfre was unable to obtain the evidence from the hospital. So, during our investigation, 
Mapfre agreed to pay the claim without any further evidence. 
However, Ms T remains unhappy with Mapfres actions. She would like to know why Mapfre 
didnt accept her testimony to begin with and has also raised concerns about its failure to 
request hospital records despite providing her sons authority for it to do so.
As set out above, I dont think Mapfres request for Ms Ts sons medical evidence was 
unreasonable, based on the policy terms. Without the evidence requested, Mapfre did not 
need to consider the claim any further. However, as a gesture of goodwill and after 
attempting to obtain Ms Ts sons medical records, Mapfre decided to pay the claim without 
further evidence. 
Mapfre is entitled to settle a claim without evidence but does not have to. I appreciate Ms T 
says it could have accepted her testimony to begin with. But that doesnt mean it did 
anything wrong by requesting the evidence when it first looked at the claim. Mapfre has 
stepped outside the policy terms to pay the claim which has been advantageous to Ms T. I 
dont think its fair or reasonable to criticise Mapfre for this. And so I dont think it needs to do 
anything further. 
For the sake of completeness, I will address Ms Ts comments. I will only address those 
comments which I consider to be key to my decision although I would like to assure Ms T 
that I have fully considered all of the comments she has made to this service. 
I dont think Mapfres request for medical evidence was unlawful. It asked for Ms T to 
ask her sons permission for access to his medical records. He or she could have 
refused and had they done so, Mapfre was entitled not to take the claim any further.
Ms T says she provided reasonable proof of her claim to Mapfre. But Mapfre 
explained it only had Ms Ts testimony and a crime reference number. It clearly 
explained what else it needed to substantiate the claim in line with its policy terms 
and conditions. I dont think Mapfres request was unreasonable. And I dont think testimony and a crime reference number without a full police report is reasonable 
proof of what happened.
In relation to the hospitals refusal to provide records, Mapfre cant be held 
responsible for this. And it isnt up to Mapfre to investigate why the hospital wont 
disclose medical records. This is something Ms T or her son should request from the 
hospital directly.
Ms T also said she felt bullied and harassed by Mapfre. Im sorry to hear Ms T felt this way. 
But I havent seen anything in the evidence provided to me to show that Mapfre made 
unreasonable requests or that it treated Ms T unfairly.
As Mapfre has now paid the claim, I think it has acted reasonably and has treated Ms T 
fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Mapfre needs to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman