DRN-2810254
The complaint
Mr C complains about Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com (ELL) and 
their decision to approve his application for a loan which he feels is unaffordable.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr C applied for a guarantor loan with ELL. Mr Cs application was 
approved and he was provided with a £3,000 loan over a 36-month term, with a monthly 
repayment of £146.19.
But Mr C has since struggled to meet his monthly repayment. And because of this, he 
though the loan was unaffordable and ELL acted irresponsibly when lending to him. So, he 
raised a complaint.
Mr C didnt think ELL shouldve approved his loan application. He explained at the time of 
the application, his father had recently passed away and ELL were the only business willing 
to lend him the £3,000 which he intended to use to cover the costs of the funeral. He 
explained hed been struggling to meet the monthly repayment and had needed to stop 
paying his sons child maintenance because of this. He was unhappy with the high level of 
interest on the loan and was upset by how long it was going to take to clear the loan 
balance. So, he wanted his mother to be removed as guarantor of the loan and any further 
interest waived to allow him to clear the remaining balance.
ELL didnt agree. They thought theyd approved the loan responsibly, based on the 
information Mr C had provided to the at the time of the application. They didnt think they 
were to blame for Mr C providing information that was incorrect, and that theyd acted in 
good faith. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr C remained unhappy 
with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought the checks ELL 
completed were proportionate to the loan they provided. And he didnt think there was any 
information that these checks provided, alongside the information Mr C supplied, that 
suggested to ELL the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt be approved. He explained hed 
listened to the application call ELL held with Mr C, and Mr C provided different information 
regarding what the loan would be used for and his financial situation. So, he didnt think he 
could hold ELL responsible for this and he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree. He maintained his view that the loan was unaffordable, and that the 
interest rate was unreasonably high. So, he asked if the interest rate could be lowered. Our 
investigator explained the interest rate was clearly explained in the loan agreement 
documents. And as he didnt think ELL had acted unfairly, he couldnt ask them to change 
the terms of the loan. Mr C didnt agree with this, so his complaint has been referred to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr C. I dont doubt Mr Cs 
testimony that hes struggled to meet the monthly repayments. And I recognise the worry this 
wouldve caused for himself and his partners mother, who was guarantor to the loan and 
responsible for any arrears if Mr C failed to make the payments. So, I can appreciate why Mr 
C would look at ELLs original decision to approve the loan and feel this was irresponsible. 
But for me to agree, Id need to be satisfied of one of two things. Either, that the checks ELL 
completed before approving the loan werent proportionate to the amount they provided Mr 
C, compared to his monthly income. Or, if I think they were proportionate, that ELL failed to 
assess the information these checks provided fairly. And in this situation, I dont think thats 
the case.
Ive first thought about the checks ELL made before approving the loan. There are no set 
number of checks that a lender such as ELL must complete before deciding to lend. But they 
must be proportionate to the credit thats being provided in comparison to customers 
monthly income. In this situation, Mr C received a high interest loan of £3,000. And Mr C 
stated his monthly income to be around £3,000 after tax. So, I think the loan Mr C was given 
was relatively small compared to his monthly income.
Ive seen ELL took into consideration the information Mr C provided at the time about his 
residential status, number of dependents, marital status and reason for the loan. They 
assessed this against Mr Cs declared monthly income and the information that was on his 
credit file at the time of the application. I think these checks were proportionate, especially 
considering Mr C provided a guarantor as part of his application, who agreed to cover any 
payments that Mr C missed. So, I dont think ELL acted unfairly or irresponsibly by not 
completing further checks.
But as well as the proportionality of the checks, Ive also considered whether ELL assessed 
the information these checks provided fairly. To do this, Ive thought about whether there 
was any information available to ELL that shouldve led them to decline Mr Cs application.
Mr C declared his monthly income as £3,000. And he stated his partner paid all the 
household bills, and that he was only responsible for the rent which was £495 a month at the 
time. Although Mr Cs rent may have increased after this, Ive listened to Mr C confirm he 
didnt expect any significant changes to his financial situation on the application call. So, I 
wouldnt have expected ELL to have foreseen this at the time. 
Mr C also confirmed on the call that he had no dependents. Im aware Mr C has since said 
he had to cancel his child maintenance due to the loan. But I dont think its fair to hold ELL 
responsible for not taking this into account in their affordability calculations, when Mr C didnt 
disclose this information.
ELL also considered Mr Cs credit file, where he had eight active accounts. But all were up to 
date, with no late payments or defaults in the last 12 months. And no credit had been taken 
out in the six months before Mr Cs application. So, I think this suggested to ELL that Mr C 
was able to maintain his accounts well and gave no suggestion he was struggling financially.
Considering the outstanding balances/limit Mr C had active on his credit file, his monthly 
commitments to this credit would be no more than £844.30. And when his monthly rent and new ELL monthly repayment was included, Mr Cs monthly outgoings would calculate to be 
£1450.49. Ive also seen ELL considered Mr Cs monthly living costs, which includes things 
such as food and petrol, to be £512.00. So in total, Mr Cs total outgoings equated to 
£1962.49, including the new loan repayment. This would leave Mr C with over £1,000 
disposable income a month. I think this is a significant disposable income to be left with a 
month, so I dont think there was any information that suggested to ELL the loan would be 
unaffordable. Because of this, I cant say theyve acted irresponsibly when they decided to 
lend and so, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for. And I do recognise the 
circumstances that led to him taking out the loan, and how difficult they wouldve been. And I 
do appreciate this may have impaired his judgement at the time. But, crucially, my decision 
is focused on the information ELL had available to them at the time. And Mr C didnt declare 
to ELL his intention to use the loan to pay the costs of a funeral. Instead, he suggested it 
was to pay for a holiday. So, I dont think ELL couldve been aware that Mr C may have been 
struggling mentally, as well as financially. 
And although the interest rate is high, this interest rate was set out clearly in the both 
application call and the loan agreement Mr C signed. So, Im satisfied Mr C understood the 
interest rate. And that the term was set for 36 months and it would take him this amount of 
time to clear the outstanding balance. So, while I recognise the financial difficulty Mr C faces, 
I dont think this is because of anything ELL did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman