DRN-3755421
The complaint
Miss S complains because Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) refused to accept a 
claim on her policy following an impact with a third-party vehicle. 
What happened
Miss S contacted Skyfire and said a third-party vehicle had impacted with the rear of her 
vehicle whilst she was travelling on a slip road. 
However, Skyfire said there was no cover in place for this claim as Miss S said she was 
commuting from work at the time the impact occurred. Miss S had no commuting cover in 
place on her policy.
But Miss S denied she was commuting. She said Skyfire had not provided concrete 
evidence to show she was commuting, and she provided a letter of support from her 
employer as requested by Skyfire. 
Skyfire continued to decline cover, so Miss S brought her complaint to our service. An 
investigator reviewed the complaint and said that Skyfire hadnt done anything wrong by 
declining cover in this instance.
As Miss S didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The Certificate of Insurance says, under section 6: Permitted use Use for Social, domestic 
and pleasure purposes only, excluding commuting use. So commuting is excluded. My role 
is to determine whether Skyfire has applied this exclusion fairly and reasonably based on the 
evidence available.
Normally in a situation like this wed look to see if a misrepresentation occurred, and whether 
Skyfire dealt with it appropriately. Miss S took this policy out online. I dont know what was 
asked at point of sale. But I can see that five days after the policy was taken out, Skyfire did 
send an email to Miss S asking whether she wanted to add commuting to her policy. There 
was no response to this email. I also note that Miss S was also asked if she wanted to add 
commuting during the first notification call on 28 January 2022. Again, Miss S declined this 
cover.
In a number of emails to this service Miss S says that she was not commuting to or from 
work and she wasnt using the vehicle in any way connected with her work. She says on the 
day of the accident she was travelling in her car for general shopping duties. She says she 
was in shock and the questions asked during the first notification call were leading. She says 
she has no parking allocation at work and the letter shes provided from her employer should 
be enough to support her claim. She says Skyfire hasnt provided any concrete evidence to 
support its statement that she was commuting at the time of accident.
Ive listened to the first notification call. Miss S told Skyfire it was just her in the car. She said 
she was proceeding on a slip road when she was impacted from the rear. Miss S tells 
Skyfire three times that she was travelling from work. She is asked whether this was her 
usual journey home from work, and she said yeah. Miss S follows this by saying, thats my 
same route. 
At about 13 minutes into the call the agent from Skyfire informs Miss S that there is no cover 
in place as commuting is excluded. At this point the conversation changes. Miss S asks if 
shed be covered in a scenario where she was travelling from work, goes to Tesco, and then 
goes home. Before the agent answers Miss S says, so like for example if I was at work, 
then stopped at a retail park, and then drove home, then thats not covered. The agent says 
no and explains that commuting is where the main reason for travelling is to get to or from 
the destination of work. Miss S says again, that is my usual journey from work, and again 
Miss S puts forward the scenario about stopping at a retail park on the way home from work. 
She says this should be classed as social. At this point Miss S alters her story and says 
she was shopping with her partner. Her partner then steps into the call to explain this was 
not a work related journey. Miss S asks everyone to stop talking so she can gather her 
thoughts. Miss Ss partner comes on the line again and says, this is not a work-related 
issue, this happened after work. He continues by saying this has nothing to do with work.
Listening to this call recording Im satisfied the call and the tone of the call was clear. The 
call was moving along perfectly and felt in no way pressurised or stressful. The agent asked 
questions clearly and Miss S was answering them willingly. She didnt sound stressed. The 
conversation only turned when the commuting exclusion was outlined to Miss S. 
I acknowledge the argument that Miss S is making. But there seems to be confusion on Miss 
Ss part about what is considered commuting. Because even in the scenarios she was 
putting forward in the call, she was still putting forward scenarios where she was commuting. 
Further to this, as time moves on the circumstances of the story change again. The final set 
of circumstances presented involve no commuting at all, just a trip to the shops. 
When the circumstances of a story change, we would expect Skyfire to take everything into 
account and decide what is more likely than not to have happened. The reality is Skyfire 
wasnt there when the impact happened. But Miss S was. In this situation we wouldnt expect 
Skyfire to have to prove everything with concrete evidence. It can only rely on Miss Ss 
testimony. And in a situation where that testimony changes multiple times, we can only ask 
Skyfire to base its decisions on what it thinks most likely happened. 
And based on everything Ive seen and heard, I think Skyfire has done enough to say that 
Miss S was more likely than not commuting from work when the impact happened. She may 
have stopped at a retail park and she may have met her partner along the way. Only Miss S 
knows the true version of events. But she clearly said three times in the call she was 
travelling from work on her own when the impact happened. So, Im satisfied its more likely 
than not that she was commuting, which her policy doesnt cover.  
Further to this even though the letter Miss Ss place of employment has provided confirms 
that Miss S doesnt use her car for anything related to work, it doesnt say that Miss S 
doesnt commute, nor does it mention parking at her place of work. Commuting and 
business use are two separate things. The letter only deals with business use.
So, Im satisfied that the version of the events presented by Miss S in the first part of the call are more likely than not the correct version of events. This version of events only changed 
when Miss S was told cover was excluded for commuting. I know Miss S says that Skyfire 
hasnt concrete evidence to prove she was commuting. But her statement in this recorded 
call is strong enough evidence for Skyfire to conclude Miss S was most likely commuting at 
the time. Im also satisfied that Skyfire did enough to make sure Miss S didnt want 
commuting cover when the policy was sold. I know Miss S will be disappointed with this 
outcome. But on the basis of what Ive seen I wont be asking Skyfire to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman