DRN-3972386
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that prior to Sainsburys Bank Plc closing his credit card account he
experienced repeated issues in accessing his online banking. Hes also unhappy he
requested paper statements, but these werent received.
What happened
Mr T has been experiencing problems with his online banking since September 2020.
Sainsburys failed to respond to Mr Ts complaints initially and promised Mr T a phone call
which never materialised. Sainsburys issued a final response letter on 5 July 2021,
explaining theyd tried to contact Mr T on several occasions but hadnt received a response.
However, due to the poor service they credited £100 to Mr Ts credit card account.
Our investigator said Sainsburys should pay an additional £200 as theyd been aware of Mr
Ts online access issues for six months at the point the complaint was logged. Although Mr T
says he wasnt receiving statements our investigator said Sainsburys wasnt at fault as his
account was set to receive paper statements and the address was correct.
Sainsburys didnt agree with the investigator. They said Mr T had successfully signed into
his account following the first time hed contacted them, and again after Sainsburys
incorrectly said someone would be in touch with Mr T. They also added when Mr T
contacted them a third time, they sent various emails which Mr T did not reply to, so theyd
done enough to try to assist him.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigator either. He said Sainsburys had breached the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) by not issuing statements at regular intervals. He said he
didnt experience any other postal issues, only with Sainsburys. He also said it was
inconvenient for him to keep track of his account by phone and it was time consuming.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision, an extract of which is below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Online banking
Mr T contacted Sainsburys in December 2020 saying hed experienced issues with his
online banking for two to three months. This appears to be the first time that Mr T raised
these issues. Sainsburys notes show that when Mr T contacted them, he hung up and didnt
confirm what he wanted to do so a complaint wasnt raised at this time. Im satisfied that I
can rely on Sainsburys notes seeing as they were made at the time and broadly fit with what
both Sainsburys and Mr T have told us. Sainsburys have also said they didnt take any
further action in December 2020 because they didnt find a system error. So taking
everything into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for Sainsburys not to have raised
a complaint in December 2020.
Sainsburys have also provided screenshots to show that Mr T successfully logged in to his
account a few days later so they thought the issue may have been resolved. Whilst I dont
think this was an unreasonable presumption, Mr T has told our service some of his account
access issues meant he could access his account but was then timed out of the system
almost immediately. So although it may have seemed Mr Ts issues had been resolved, I
think its possible they were actually still ongoing.
As Mr T didnt hear anything further about his complaint, he contacted Sainsburys again in
January 2021. Although Mr T had been incorrectly promised a phone call, Sainsburys have
said there wasnt a reason to call Mr T in any event as it seemed the issue had been
resolved because hed been able to log on. However, as Ive explained above, Mr T says he
was immediately timed out upon logging on, so I dont think its likely the issue had been
resolved.
As Mr T didnt hear from Sainsburys he contacted them and in March 2021 a complaint was
logged. It seems that in May and June 2021 Sainsburys tried to contact Mr T by phone to
discuss the account access but werent able to speak to him. I can see an email was sent on
2 June 2021 providing Mr T with some suggestions to see whether that would help him
access his account online. So it does seem that by May 2021, Sainsburys were trying to
assist Mr T.
Sainsburys apologised for the level of service that they provided. Sainsburys contact notes
suggest a payment of £20 was credited to Mr Ts account for distress and inconvenience
and in their final response letter they awarded a further £100 for the issues Mr T
experienced.
However, I think Sainsburys should pay an additional £100 for his experience overall. I say
this because Sainsburys shouldnt have promised Mr T a phone call in January 2021. This
would have added to Mr Ts frustration not to have received any assistance when he was
already having difficulties accessing his account online. Furthermore, Mr T had to chase
Sainsburys again and it wasnt until March 2021 that a complaint was logged. And even
when the complaint was logged it took Sainsburys a further two months to get in touch with
him, causing a delay. Whilst this was ongoing, it was frustrating and time consuming for Mr
T. So for this reason I think Sainsburys should pay Mr T an additional £100.
Mr T has said because he wanted to find out how much interest hed incurred, he had to
phone Sainsburys and these phone calls were lengthy. I appreciate this was time
consuming for him. But unfortunately dealing with organisations (such as banks) is part of
everyday life and sometimes this can be time consuming. So I dont think Mr T should be
awarded any more than the additional £100 Ive provisionally decided on.
Statements
Sainsburys notes state Mr T says he asked for statements in March 2021. Having looked at
the internal screenshots provided to us from Sainsburys systems Im satisfied his account
had been set so to receive statements in the post. I can also see from the account
statements that Sainsburys held the right address for him at the time and Im not aware of
any issues Sainsburys had with dispatching statements during this period. Although I
appreciate Mr T says he wasnt receiving his statements, I cant fairly hold Sainsburys
responsible for this as I cant see theyve done anything wrong here.
Mr T has said Sainsburys have breached the CCA by not sending him statements on a
regular basis. But I dont think Sainsburys have done anything wrong as Im satisfied they
issued paper statements to Mr T and Im not persuaded its responsible for him not receivingthem, so I dont think Sainsburys need to do anything further in relation to this aspect of his
complaint.
It is Mr Ts responsibility to make the necessary payments to the account regardless of
whether he has online access or receives statements. I understand Mr T would like interest
and charges refunded from December 2020. However, this was a debt that Mr T legitimately
owed Sainsburys and therefore interest and charges accrued as a result would be payable
by Mr T. I appreciate it was harder to keep track of the account due to the lack of online
access but Mr T was able to make payments and find out how much interest was owed by
phoning Sainsburys. So for this reason I dont think Sainsburys need to refund interest and
charges from December 2020.
On Mr Ts complaint form he said he wanted any negative markers on his credit file to be
removed. Our investigator asked Mr T for evidence to show the adverse information that
Sainsburys had recorded but this was not provided, and Mr T confirmed he was happy for
the investigation to continue without this point being considered. In light of this I have not
considered it as part of my decision.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and require Sainsburys Bank
Plc to pay Mr T a further £100 compensation.
Mr T replied to my provisional decision to say he was disappointed with my outcome but 
indicated he accepted it as he wanted the matter resolved. Sainsburys replied to explain its 
point of view and why it didnt agree with all my findings, but that to resolve the complaint it 
would pay Mr T the additional compensation.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision  albeit reluctantly  to resolve the 
complaint, I see no reason to depart from it, or to delay matters further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Sainsburys Bank Plc should pay Mr T a 
further £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman