DRN-2575551
The complaint
Miss C complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) has unfairly rejected her claim brought under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Miss C tells us that in February 2020 she was persuaded by an acquaintance to purchase a 
valuable watch from a jeweller Ill call G.  She says that it was explained to her that the 
individual concerned worked within the industry. And would be able to enhance the value of 
the item and re-sell it at a good profit. The purchase price of £11,950 was to be funded by 
way of a £2,000 deposit which shed received from the individual. And a fixed sum loan for 
£9,950 which Miss C would take out in her name. She says that she was promised that 
when the watch was re-sold, shed be repaid in full together with an additional profit. Miss C 
says that she handed the watch to her friend. But hes not kept his promise to refund the 
cost to her. She feels shes been the victim of a fraud. And that BPF shouldnt have agreed 
to finance the loan through which she acquired the item. 
BPF said that it didnt accept that it had any liability under Section 75. And it felt that Miss 
Cs complaint was a civil matter between herself and the third party involved on whose 
behalf shed purchased the item.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
Section 75 applied only if thered been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the 
supplier of the goods. And here the watch had been supplied to Miss C. So she didnt think 
thered been a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Miss C wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I empathise with Miss C in respect of the situation with which shes now faced. It does 
appear that shes been misled by someone she trusted. And this has led to her facing 
significant financial difficulties.
I need to explain that Im only dealing with the complaint in relation to Section 75. I 
understand that Miss C may have a separate complaint relating to affordability of the 
regulated finance agreement which financed the purchase.
Miss Cs complaint amounts to her being misled into acquiring goods in the belief that the 
cost would be refunded and she would make a profit. She also feels that insufficient checks 
were made by BPF in respect of the retailer who brokered her credit agreement. And that it 
shouldve realised there was a scam.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Section 75 gives a consumer a like claim against the provider of finance as they would have 
against the supplier of the goods or services about which complaint is brought. It requires 
there to have been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
So if I thought that G had misled Miss C into acquiring the watch or entering the finance 
agreement - or not supplied her with the item that she paid for  Id expect BPF to put things 
right.
Its not in dispute that in advance of the purchase, the item which Miss C was to acquire had 
already been identified. And shed checked to ensure she would be granted the necessary 
credit. All that G has done is to process the credit application to be considered by BPF. And 
once it was approved to go ahead and supply the item. Im unable to find that G has done 
anything that amounts to a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Its whats happened subsequently that has caused Miss Cs loss. Once shed paid for and 
had been supplied with the item, she became the legal owner of the property. She was 
entitled to do with it as she saw fit. Neither G nor BPF had any control or played any part in 
her decision to hand over the watch to her friend.
In these circumstances, BPF was entitled to find that G hadnt been responsible for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. And that it (BPF) had no liability arising from 
Section 75.
Its by no means unusual for valuable items of many descriptions to be acquired on credit. 
So the fact that Miss C was acquiring an expensive watch wouldnt itself be a concern. BPF 
would be required to carry out checks on affordability. And provided it was satisfied that Miss 
C was eligible for finance there would seemingly be no reason not to accept her application.
Whilst I have immense sympathy for the predicament which Miss C faces, I dont find that 
BPF has done anything wrong in declining her Section 75 claim.
Accordingly Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman