DRN-2954779
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way that Ageas Insurance Limited dealt with his claim for tracing
and accessing a leak, and reinstating his property.  
What happened
In April 2020 Mr B heard the sound of running water in his home. He called out a plumber
who told him there was a leak in the underground pipes between two rooms. He was
advised to make a claim and that specialist leak detection service was necessary in order to
complete the trace and access. Mr B duly contacted Ageas who told him he needed to
contact such a company himself. Mr B then managed to find a leak detection service, who
came out and traced the leak. Mr B set the invoice through to Ageas. But because this
included work which wasnt authorised, Ageas had to investigate further. It appointed
contractors to complete the trace and access and to carry out reinstatement of the floor.
Ageas contractors advised that drying out was needed. They appointed a restoration
company who said that because if the floor construction and the position of the leak, this
would inhibit any attempts at drying. Nevertheless they attempted to carry out mechanical
drying using dehumidifiers for 7 days. This didnt resolve the problem. Mr B was unwilling to
have any more drying carried out. So they told Mr B that a damp proof membrane (DPM)
would need to be installed. But because there was a possibility that further damp problems
may arise, Ageas wouldnt accept responsibility if that did happen. The reinstatement was
completed in June 2020.
Mr B complained that he had had to spend time chasing around to find an engineered when
hed been told by his broker service that the claim would be accepted and Ageas would carry
out the repairs. He also questioned the necessity of carrying out drying, hed since made a
further claim and this had dried naturally. He also had to pay his contractors bill out of
savings and didnt get reimbursed for a month. He complained also that indentations had
been made in his carpet by the contractors moving heavy furniture.
Ageas agreed there had been delays in the matter while the contractors decided what to do
about the drying. The contractors paid Mr B £50 and Ageas paid him £150 compensation. In
respect of the furniture marks it said these should resolve themselves but in any event Mr B
didnt have contents insurance with it.
I issued a provisional decision.  I said Ageas should take on the liability for the DPM 
installation, pay a further £100 compensation and consider the marks/indentations in the 
carpet. 
Mr B accepted my provisional decision.
Ageas has made no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
As I understand it the reason put forward for not carrying out further drying was because it
was decided this would be ineffective. This accords with Mr Bs recollection of what he had
been told. The proposed solution was to install a DPM. And the contractors, and by
extension Ageas were unwilling to take the risk that further moisture might come through in
the future. Mr B was, I understand, prepared to take that risk, to save further intrusion, noise
and dust from driers. His wife, who has sadly passed away since then, had breathing
difficulties.
I can understand why the seven days drying needed to take place, as this was the only way
to establish whether that would have been effective. But after that the drying options were
discussed and the DPM seems to have been the only option for carrying out an effective
reinstatement of the floor. I dont see why in those circumstances Mr B should have to take
on any liability if further damp comes through because of the first leak. Mr B believes it has
dried out but nevertheless I think if further problems arise Ageas should consider its liability.
Mr B shouldnt in my view have had to source his own contractor to carry out leak detection.
Trace and access is covered under the policy independently of any water damage, and
Ageas clearly did have contractors do this. I think this caused Mr B aggravation, especially
as he then had to wait about a month to get reimbursed, due to Ageas querying the content
of the bill. I note in particular Mr B is elderly and more sympathetic handling of the claim
could have helped.
Ageas has accepted there were delays, caused by the contractors deciding what to do. As a
result Mr B and his wife had a hole in the floor longer than was necessary. I dont think there
was a failure on Ageas part to chase things up and I have noted it paid compensation of
£150 on top of the contractors paying £50.
As for the indentations in the carpet, its irrelevant that Mr B only held a buildings policy with
Ageas since the marks were made as a result of work carried out by Ageas contractors. If
the problem is still persisting Ageas should reconsider this point by inspecting it and if
necessary carrying out a repair.
Overall whilst I think Ageas has in conjunction with its contractors paid sufficient
compensation for the delays, Mr B understandably believes his account wasnt believed.
This is especially the case so far as drying out was concerned. I think, in respect of that and
requiring Mr B to get his own contractor in the first place it should pay compensation of a
further £100. 
As Mr B has accepted my provisional findings, and as Ageas has no further comments, 
those findings are now final and form part of this final decision.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr B a further £100 compensation
if Mr B still requires it, reconsider the issue of indentations in the carpet; and
accept liability for the DPM repairs and consider any issue that arises about them in the
future.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman