DRN-3141553
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Metro Bank PLC blocked and closed her account. And took too long to 
release funds held in the account back to her. 
What happened
 Mrs J had a savings account with Metro.
In  November 2019, Metro reviewed Mrs Js account. Whilst it completed its review Metro 
blocked the account  which meant Mrs J couldnt access the funds in it. The account was 
blocked from November 2019 until July 2020.
Following its review, Metro decided to close Mrs Js account. Metro wrote to Mrs J on 29 July 
2019 and gave her 60 days notice to make alternative banking arrangements. Following this 
Mrs J transferred her balance to an account held with another bank. 
Mrs J complained to Metro about the block and closure of her account. She made trips into 
branch and telephoned Metro to try and find out what was happening with her account and 
the reasons behind the banks actions. Metro didnt provide Mrs J with much information and 
said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the terms of the account and 
relevant regulations. 
Mrs J wasnt happy with the banks response and brought her complaint to this service. She 
explained that shed had to borrow money from relatives and friends to pay for living 
expenses. And the whole experience had been upsetting and stressful. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought Metro hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Mrs Js account. She said theyd acted in line with their 
legal and regulatory obligations. And had treated Mrs J fairly when it decided to close her 
account. However, she said Metro took too long to complete its review and couldve done 
things much quicker. So, she said Metro should pay Mrs J £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Metro accepted what the investigator said. Mrs J disagreed. She explained that at the time 
she was planning to buy a property with the funds in her account, but because of the block 
she couldnt do so and had to extend her lease at a rental property, at extra cost. Mrs J says 
because she had to wait to buy a property house prices also increased. So, she wants Metro 
to pay her compensation for the inconvenience and financial losses the block and closure of 
her account has caused her. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, Metro has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil 
these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask 
customers for information, for example about payments, and information about the 
individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. The 
terms of Mrs Js account also permit Metro to review an account and ask its customers for 
information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Metro to block Mrs Js account. Metro has explained that this was its standard procedure, 
and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so Metro were complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions caused Mrs J inconvenience 
when it  decided to block her account, I cant say the bank treated her unfairly. 
I understand that Mrs J wants Metro to explain the reason it applied the block to her account 
in the first place. But Metro doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their 
accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mrs J the reasons behind the account review 
and block, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not 
giving Mrs J this information. 
However, while Metro are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay.  Metro initially blocked Mrs Js account on 12 
November 2019.  I can see that Metro asked Mrs J to provide it with information and Mrs J 
did so promptly on 24 November 2019. However, Mrs Js account remained blocked with no 
further contact until July 2020 when Metro asked Mrs J for some more information. I havent 
seen any evidence to satisfy me that Metros actions are reasonable in the circumstances of 
this case. While I recognise that Metro are entitled to carry out a review, I dont consider the 
account being blocked for a further eight months with little contact acceptable. I note too that 
information Metro requested in July 2020 shouldve been obtained at the time Mrs J first 
provided information in November 2019. So, Im satisfied Metro has caused unnecessary 
delays in releasing Mrs Js funds.
Metro hasnt offered any explanation for why its review of Mrs Js account took so long to 
complete. It has accepted it should have unblocked Mrs Js account sooner than it did and 
couldve asked Mrs J for the extra information when it first spoke to her. Metro has agreed to 
pay Mrs J £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the delay. Mrs J has said 
this isnt enough to reflect the trouble and upset shes suffered. 
In response to the investigators view Mrs J said she had to extend the lease on her rental 
property which mean she had to make further rental payments. Shes also said that she had 
to delay buying a property because she couldnt access the money in her savings account. 
And when the funds were released, she had a reduced amount of money to use as she had 
to repay relatives whod helped her with loans to get by. So, she couldnt afford what she 
wanted.  She has submitted her lease agreement and a sales contract for a property she 
says she bought after she had access to her funds to support what shes said.
Ive considered what Mrs J has said about how Metros actions impacted her and Ive looked 
at the paperwork shes provided. Ive no doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for 
Mrs J but for me to award more compensation Id have to be satisfied that the delays caused 
an unreasonable level of inconvenience and financial loss. 
Having looked at the evidence Mrs J has provided, I note that the lease agreement is dated 
October 2019 until April 2020, so Mrs J was already renting the property before Metro 
blocked her account. I havent seen any evidence that Mrs J extended the lease beyond 
April 2020 and had to make unnecessary rental payments. However, I can see that the address on Mrs Js Metro bank statement is the same address she has provided this service 
for correspondence, which suggests to me that Mrs J hasnt moved despite Metro releasing 
her funds in July 2020. 
I note too that the sales contract isnt dated and from internet enquiries Ive made the 
property shown in the contract appears to have been last sold in 2007. And not following the 
release of Mrs Js funds. So, when I weigh everything up, Im not persuaded that the 
evidence submitted by Mrs J shows she lost out financially and had to delay buying a 
property. It wouldnt be fair of me to tell Metro to pay financial loss or compensation for 
something theres no evidence of.  
Turning to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular mistakes or poor service. Its my role to consider what impact Metros 
actions have had on Mrs J and decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether 
compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its fair to say the delays caused by Metro when it 
reviewed Mrs Js account caused Mrs J worry and upset. And I agree some compensation is 
appropriate for this. I say this because its clear to me Mrs J was caused distress and 
inconvenience by Metros delays. She had to spend time contacting Metro, asked friends and 
relatives for money, and she had to wait several months for Metro to release her funds. So, I 
can understand how inconvenient  and upsetting all of this was for Mrs J. And its only right 
that Metro recognises this. However, Im satisfied that £250 is a fair amount of compensation 
and proportionate to the trouble and upset Mrs J was caused. So, while Mrs J may disagree 
with me, Im satisfied that the compensation recommended by the investigator recognises 
the impact Metros actions had in the overall circumstances of this complaint. So, I wont be 
directing Metro to pay any more.    
I then turn to the banks decision to close the account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, 
this service wont usually intervene. Im satisfied here that the banks decision to stop 
providing Mrs J with banking facilities was reached legitimately and fairly.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Metro gave Mrs J 60 days notice of its intention to close her account. The bank wrote to 
Mrs J on 29 July 2020, telling her the account would close. So, it was entitled to close the 
account as it has already done. 
In summary, its clearly caused Mrs J inconvenience when she wasnt able to use her 
account. So understandably shes upset. And I appreciate it must have been a worrying and 
frustrating time for her. So, I realise she will be disappointed by my decision. But having 
looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I havent found grounds to 
increase the level of compensation. And Im satisfied that £250 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. So, I wont be telling Metro to do anything else to resolve Mrs Js complaint. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. To put things right Metro Bank PLC 
should pay Mrs J £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken for 
Metro to complete its review of Mrs Js account and release her funds.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman