DRN-2051012
The complaint
Mr D complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt provided him with a refund after he 
cancelled his motor insurance policy. He wants his refund.
What happened
Mr D cancelled his policy and UKI said it paid him a refund of premium to the card and 
account hed originally made the payment from. This was even though Mr D had told it the 
account was now closed. UKI said that if the payment was rejected, it would issue his refund 
by cheque. The payment wasnt rejected, and Mr Ds bank was unable to help. So Mr D felt 
caught in the middle. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI was 
correct to return the payment to the original account in order to comply with money 
laundering regulations. He thought Mr Ds bank should do more to locate the transaction. He 
thought UKI had reasonably provided Mr D with enough information to help him do this. 
Mr D asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr D has been waiting for his money for a long time. I can understand that this 
must be very frustrating for him. 
As the investigator has explained, UKI is required to comply with money laundering 
regulations. So I think it correctly paid Mr Ds refund to the card and account the premium 
was originally paid from. And I think it explained to Mr D that if this payment was rejected, 
then it would look to issue a refund to him by cheque. But the bank didnt reject the payment, 
and so Mr Ds money was somewhere in the banks system.
UKI provided Mr D with the ARN number which is used for tracking payments. But the bank 
said a formal dispute needed to be raised before it could use this. And a formal dispute 
couldnt be raised as the account was already closed. It said the payment had been cleared 
and Mr D needed to ask his card provider to track the payment. 
I can see that this was very frustrating for Mr D and all he wanted was to receive his refund. 
But I cant say that UKI has made a mistake. It paid the refund correctly, following its 
procedures. The payment wasnt returned, so it advised Mr D that the issue lay with his 
bank. And it gave Mr D the tracking number he would need to pursue this with the bank.
So I think UKI acted fairly and reasonably. I think Mr D needs to raise a complaint with the 
bank in order to locate his money. If hes unhappy with its response, then he can bring his 
complaint to us.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman