DRN-4378031
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with how The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) settled a claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that NFU has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy covers delayed departure due to bad weather. There is cover for delay, 
abandonment, enforced stay and missed initial or final connection. NFU settled Miss Hs 
claim under the delay section which offers a fixed benefit. 
I dont think NFU needs to do anything further to put things right. I say that because: 
I think it was reasonable for NFU to settle the claim under the delay section 
which offers a fixed benefit. Im satisfied NFU has settled the claim in line with the 
relevant terms. 
I dont think theres cover under the abandonment section because it offers cover 
for the outward journey. I think its reasonable to interpret that as Miss Hs 
journey from the UK to her destination. Thats also in line with the dictionary 
definition of outward which our investigator set out. Miss H was returning from 
her destination, with a stopover in another country. So, I cant fairly and 
reasonably conclude it was an outward journey in the circumstances of this case.  
I dont think theres cover under the enforced stay section of cover. Miss H was 
offered an alternative flight by the airline, although shed have missed some of 
her stopover in a different country on the way home. She chose to book an 
alternative flight at an additional cost. And, in any event, she didnt make 
arrangements to return to the UK as understandably she wanted to visit the other 
destination shed planned to visit. Therefore, I dont think her circumstances are 
covered by this section of cover.  
The missed initial or final connection offers cover to complete the initial or final 
stage of a booked journey within the territorial limits. Territorial limits is defined 
as Great Britain, Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands, 
including the journey between them. I dont think this section of cover applies to 
Miss Hs circumstances either.
Im satisfied that £100 compensation fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss H by delays in handling her claim. I think this 
acknowledges the impact on Miss H including the additional worry and frustration 
caused. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman