DRN-3431645
The complaint
Mr H complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds (Fairmead) decision to decline cover 
for a claim under his home contents insurance. 
What happened
Mr H says builders were working on his neighbours property but this led to water ingress to 
his home which damaged some of his contents. The contents damaged included 3,154 
copies of prints. Fairmead declined to cover these on the basis they would be classed as 
business stock and not personal contents. Mr H complained and Fairmead upheld their 
decision to decline the claim. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. He thought Fairmead hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining Mr Hs claim. Mr H disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.    
Theres no dispute here that an insured event has occurred, and I can see Fairmead have 
paid part of the claim. The dispute relates to the 3,154 damaged prints which Mr H believes 
should be covered by Fairmead. 
My starting point is Mr Hs home insurance policy. This sets out the terms and conditions 
and confirms Mr H is covered for damage to contents. The policy defines contents and lists 
examples of items which are included. It then lists contents which arent included and says 
any property held or used for business purposes other than home office equipment. The 
policy then goes further and lists examples of home office equipment which would be 
covered. It also lists examples of items not included as home office equipment and lists 
business stock. The policy also says Mr H must let Fairmead know if there is any business 
use from his home. Fairmead declined to cover Mr Hs claim for the prints on the basis it 
relates to business stock. So, Ive looked into whether Fairmeads decision is fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr Hs policy doesnt define business stock  which is understandable given that its not for 
business insurance. Fairmead say they would define business stock as anything which an 
insured is purchasing to make a profit on. Fairmead appear to have based their decision to 
classify the prints as business stock on the basis of information which they say Mr H 
provided  in particular, they say Mr H said he purchased the prints to make them into 
calendars to sell. Mr H disputes this and says he never told Fairmead or the loss adjuster 
that he purchased the calendars to sell. 
Given the dispute, Ive looked at the information available and made a judgement call based 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what Mr H more likely than not wouldve done - not 
what Mr H definitely wouldve done - as nobody can safely say that given the passage of 
time. Ive also considered whether, based on the information available to them, it was 
reasonable for Fairmead to conclude the prints were business stock. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr H, but from the information Ive considered, I dont think Fairmead have acted unfairly. I 
say this for a number of reasons, which Ill explain.  
Fairmead say they dont have any correspondence from Mr H confirming the prints were 
made into calendars and sold. They say a conversation took place during a site visit where 
Mr H, when questioned why he had that many prints, told the loss adjuster that he had made 
them into calendars to sell. I can see an email was sent by the loss adjuster to the Claims 
Team saying The insured has over 1,000 prints which has been damaged as a result of the 
claim. Policyholder states the prints were purchased some years ago and no receipt is 
available. He and his brother had them made into calendars to sell. I find this to be 
persuasive as its a contemporaneous account of what was discussed during the site visit.   
Ive also seen a letter from Mr H to the loss adjuster setting out a list of the items damaged 
together with a valuation. The list includes the prints and says Lowest price sold for on 
[online platform] £8.99each. Highest price sold for £60.00 framed. 3154 copies 
damaged or destroyed @ £2.00 each. The total for this is noted as £6,308. In this letter,   
Mr H makes reference to specific prices the prints have been sold for  so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Fairmead to take the view the prints were being sold. That said, I note     
Mr H says he has never sold any prints to make a profit. He says he did consider the 
possibility but never acted on it. He says he sold a framed copy of a print for £60 in 2004 and 
some friends have given him small amounts of money, but nothing since 2005. He says he 
also gave a few prints to his daughter who sold two on an online platform in 2012. Mr H says 
he has given more away as gifts to friends and charities. Mr H says someone must break 
even before theyre able to generate a profit and, as thousands of pounds had been spent 
on the creation of the prints, theres been no profit. Mr H says there arent any retail or 
wholesale outlets for the prints. 
  
Ive taken Mr Hs comments into account but, while a profit might not have been made, that 
doesnt persuade me that Mr Hs intention wasnt to sell the prints, either in that form or as a 
calendar. I say this because, following Fairmeads decision to decline the claim, theres a 
note showing Mr H called Fairmead to complain. The note says Mr H wants to challenge the 
decision as his intention was to sell the prints to raise money for family, and that he did 
not have a company set up and registered. I accept Mr H didnt set up a company so I can 
understand why he feels the prints shouldnt be treated as business stock. But, I dont 
believe the absence of a registered business alone means no items held in an insureds 
home should be treated as business stock. The issue at hand here is Mr Hs intended use 
for the prints  and the note of Mr Hs call shows there was an intention to sell the prints to 
raise money. 
In addition to this, Ive looked at Mr Hs reply to Fairmead following their complaint response 
upholding their decision to decline the claim. Mr H says he didnt inform Fairmead the prints 
were purchased in order to make them into calendars to sell. He says only 1,000 calendars 
were made to give examples of what the prints look like. Mr H also says the main reason 
wasnt for the benefit of his family but if they did accrue any profits they would be for his 
brother who created the prints. Mr H says they did sell a few but it was nowhere near the 
costs of production. Theres a number of points made by Mr H which I believe suggest, its 
more likely than not, the prints/calendars were to be sold. Firstly, theres the fact that 1,000 
calendars were made. I note Mr H says this was to give examples of what they might look like, but I believe producing a significantly smaller number of calendars wouldve achieved 
this. Given the volume produced, I believe on the balance of probabilities the intention was 
to sell them. Secondly, Mr H accepts he did sell a few and if they did accrue any profits they 
would be for his brother who created the prints. Again, this shows there had been a few 
sales and what the intention was for any profits.      
  
Mr H points to various inaccuracies he says are contained in Fairmeads final response. He 
says he never told Fairmead he was purchasing the calendars to sell. He says the prints 
were created nearly 20 years ago and the calendars were created much later as a one-off to 
illustrate their uniqueness. He says there were 13 in total, one for each month and one for 
the front cover. Mr H says there was never any intention to sell the calendars. I note Mr Hs 
comments, but I have to consider the number of prints Mr H had. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest all 3,154 prints were different, which I think mightve then suggested it 
was a personal collection. But, this is a case where there were a relatively small number of 
print designs, but many copies of each. And, when combined with the other information Ive 
taken into account and explained above, I dont believe its unfair for Fairmead to have 
formed a reasonable belief that the items were to be sold as prints or calendars. 
I note Mr H says he doesnt agree with the view that the number of prints suggested they 
would be sold. Mr H says this is supposition with no proof of intent. Mr H says he cant prove 
his intent but it wasnt for personal profit or the intention of starting a business or charity. He 
says his intentions were purely of a charitable nature. I acknowledge this and agree a 
specific number doesnt, on its own, determine whether an item should be classed as 
business stock or not. I think whats important and relevant here though is the number of 
prints combined with other information. As mentioned above, this includes Mr Hs statement 
that 1,000 calendars were made, his admission that a few were sold, a reference to a price 
on an online platform and contemporaneous records noting there was an intention to sell the 
prints and calendars.     
Mr H says, there is no business and if he passes away his daughter wont be inheriting a 
business or charity. He says there was never any intention to create a business or charity 
with there being no evidence to prove otherwise. He says no prints have been sold to make 
profit and theres no evidence theyve been made available to the public through retail or 
trade outlets. I dont disagree with some of the points made by Mr H here but the dispute 
here doesnt relate to whether Mr H had any intention to create a business or charity, but 
whether the items damaged should be classed as business stock. And, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think Fairmead have acted unreasonably. 
I can see Mr H has also made points about how remnants of a business are treated when it 
ceases. I wish to reassure Mr H I have carefully considered his points but they dont affect 
what I think is the right outcome here. Mr H also points out that Fairmead did previously offer 
him a settlement amount of £1,500. I acknowledge this but this was before Fairmead 
received further information from the loss adjuster which led them to decline the claim.  
Mr H has my sympathy as I can see from his correspondence this has been a very upsetting 
event for him. My role is to decide whether Fairmead have acted fairly in declining the claim. 
And, for the reasons I have set out, I think they have so I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman