DRN-3225825
The complaint
Mr W complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) will not allow him to cash in his annuity 
with it.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in a provisional 
decision. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
Mr W had a personal pension with ReAssure. In 2007, Mr W reached his retirement age under the 
policy and chose to take his benefits under the policy. ReAssure sent him the relevant forms and 
Mr W chose to take tax-free cash and an annuity of £52.31 paid annually.
More recently, Mr W complained to ReAssure about his annuity. He felt it had been mis-sold as he 
said he thought hed bought a normal pension and not a pension annuity. ReAssure explained the 
relationship between pensions and annuities and that it had given Mr W all the relevant information 
at the time and hed signed to say he wished to take his benefits as an annuity.
Mr W was unhappy with this. Hes explained that hed prefer a cash lump sum as the annuity isnt 
much use to him. Our investigator contacted Mr W and explained that at the time he took his 
benefits he was essentially restricted to an annuity. And a pension is a fund built up to provide 
income in retirement (and providing a set income in retirement is called an annuity). Mr W said he 
didnt want to complain about the mis-sale anymore but wished to complain about not being 
allowed to cash-in the policy.
Mr W has talked about the annuity being worth around £350 a year but the paperwork signed at 
the time shows it to be a yearly payment of just over £52. It may be that Mr W is looking at a 
different yearly payment he receives from ReAssure. But the evidence shows that the annuity 
hes complained about pays him £52 a year.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W would like to cash-in his annuity, and so Ive considered whether this is something we can 
fairly tell ReAssure to do.
Relevant considerations
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that 
scheme if
(a)the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is 
met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and make 
payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes cashing-in of 
annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What this means is the schemes are allowed to make 
these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mr Ws position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it can, but 
only up to a limit of £10,000.
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance? 
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally
 The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Principles for Businesses
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of their 
business model.Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should act in 
the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the expense of other 
customers. Nor to act in a customers interest without consideration of other factors or wider 
implications.
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal 
arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could cause 
issues with commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively 
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case
1. Does ReAssure have discretion to commute Mr Ws annuity as requested? For 
example:
-Is the value under £10,000?
-Is Mr W the legal owner of the annuity?
-Is ReAssure the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2. If ReAssure is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mr Ws best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
-Would it expose him to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
-Would it affect other income that he relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3. If Reassure was free to grant Mr Ws request to commute the annuity and doing so 
would have been in his best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Reassure to 
refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way?
My findings in light of the above considerations
ReAssure hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to allow 
Mr W to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have discretion to 
commute his annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mr W to show that he would be worse off if he were 
to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Mr Ws told us and the value 
of his annuity, which is paying him just under £53 a year, Im satisfied the annuity is so small that it 
doesnt appear to provide any meaningful income on which he relies. I accept his position that hed 
benefit more from a cash lump sum, even if relatively small. For these reasons, and subject to the 
lump sum value (which hasnt been determined), Ive proceeded also on the basis that it would be 
in Mr Ws personal interest to encash the annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether ReAssure fairly took into account Mr Ws interests 
when it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow Mr W to cash-in his annuity.ReAssure has told us it is unwilling at this point in time to offer a cash in value to Mr W, 
essentially because the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in, so it would be difficult 
to offer that option now without incurring significant cost and inconvenience  and possibly to 
the detriment of other customers. It made a number of points about this, for example:
-It cannot consider cases (and offer cash in values) in isolation without considering all its 
qualifying customers. It has a duty to be fair to all its customers.
-Without appropriate processes and checks, it could result in poor customer outcomes 
and cause more harm than good.
-To choose specific customers to make offers also has complications. Deciding who 
should receive an offer and who shouldnt, isnt possible without significant 
groundwork to determine what is fair (and the wider implications of this need to be 
considered on its customers and its business)
-Any decision made on the above, could cause more inconsistency as its difficult to 
determine who would and who wouldnt benefit from cashing-in offers.
-There are significant financial implications on it, in offering this widely to customers.
-Its annuities are backed by other financial arrangements and backed by long-term 
and illiquid assets, so cash values arent easily realised.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think ReAssures points here are fair ones. I dont think 
ReAssure simply disregarded Mr Ws interests in this case. Its position is based on its 
considerations of what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business model 
more widely.
It seems to me that ReAssure could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to treat 
Mr Ws case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a business 
the size of ReAssure. However, I acknowledge ReAssures difficulty here. Im not persuaded there 
is reason in Mr Ws case to treat him differently to other customers with small annuities. (Its my 
understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Mr W would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the 
annuity isnt useful to him. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt 
something Mr W had a right to. And while ReAssure was free to allow his request, Im 
satisfied it did have other legitimate interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity 
product was designed, the impact on ReAssures existing systems and processes, the 
interests of its customers more widely and the potential cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for ReAssure to decline Mr Ws request. 
It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr W in line with other customers.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities. If in the 
future ReAssure changes its position on cashing-in annuities or legislation changes, its possible 
Mr W may benefit from such a change. But I cannot fairly say ReAssure must change its position 
at present, in the circumstances Ive considered in this decision.
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not 
intending to uphold his complaint.
Mr W hasnt added anything new or substantive following the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings reached in my provisional 
decision. And so my final decision remains the same and as set out above.In summary, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for ReAssure to decline Mr Ws 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr W in line with other 
customers.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman