DRN-3248702
The complaint
Mr H complains Short Term Finance Limited (STF) lent to him irresponsibly because it didnt
carry out proper affordability checks before lending to him. Mr H also says these loans have
caused him financial difficulties.
  
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Hs complaint. STF didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was also intending to partially 
uphold Mr Hs complaint but for different reasons. A copy of the background to the complaint 
and my provisional findings follow this in italics and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
In total Mr H was given 12 home collected loans between January 2012 and August 2018.
Ive included some of the information this Service has received from STF about the lending
in the table below;
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)
1 £700.00 20/01/2012 16/08/2012 23
2 £200.00 20/01/2012 16/08/2012 23
3 £200.00 17/08/2012 27/03/2013 23
4 £700.00 17/08/2012 27/03/2013 23
5 £900.00 29/03/2013 18/02/2014 23
6 £300.00 15/08/2014 24/12/2014 16
7 £300.00 15/05/2015 26/08/2015 16
8 £300.00 18/08/2016 25/11/2016 16
9 £300.00 27/04/2017 29/09/2017 16
10 £150.00 27/04/2017 29/11/2017 25
11 £300.00 15/02/2018 27/05/2018 16
12 £300.00 16/08/2018 28/11/2018 16
STF considered Mr Hs complaint and it didnt think it had made an error in the way it dealt
with him. So, it didnt uphold his complaint.. Unhappy with the response, Mr H referred his
complaint to this Service.
Initially, the first adjudicator who reviewed the complaint was only told about loans 8  12.
And he assessed the complaint on that basis. He said that STF had told Mr H that it had
carried out a credit search before each loan, but it hadnt been able to provide a copy of the
credit check results. But as STF had told Mr H the sort of things it looked for in a search the
adjudicator was able to consider what STF may have seen.
He concluded that Mr H was likely having problems repaying his loans because he had been
a regular user of home credit loans from at least 2010. So, he upheld all the loans he was
aware off at the time so loans 8  12.
In response to the adjudicators assessment STF told us about a further seven loans (loans
1  7 in the table above). It also gave us its consent to consider these loans. However, unlike
loans 8  12 only limited information was provided such as the start and end date of each
loan, the amount borrowed, intended term and weekly repayment amount.
The case then needed to be passed to a new adjudicator who considered the first seven
loans.
The new adjudicator concluded STF didnt do anything wrong when loans 1  4 were
granted. But she thought by the time of loan 5, these loans were now unsustainable and so
loans 5, 6 and 7 shouldnt have been granted. She also said, in the redress part of her
assessment that loans 8  12 should also be upheld. So overall, the adjudicator thought
loans 5  12 should be upheld.
Mr H appears to have agreed with the adjudicators findings.
STF didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In response it said;
It doesnt believe it did anything wrong with the way it dealt with Mr H.
It adhered to all relevant guidelines, regulations and its own procedures when it lent
to Mr H.
Its only been since November 2018 that it had the ability to accept and keep copies
of any supporting evidence, such as bank statements, wage slips and bills.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
STF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H could
repay his loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest STF should have done more to establish that any lending
was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. The loan payments being
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
When loans 6 - 12 were approved, STF was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority,
which has set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a
lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those
repayments are unsustainable.
Its also worth noting that prior to loan 6, STF was regulated by the Office of Fair trading
(OFT) and its guidance  the Irresponsible Lending Guidance, says similar to CONC about
what is sustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
Before I start the review of the loans that Mr H was granted, I think its worth pointing out that
in my view there are a number of chains of lending. The reason for this is there are some
quite significant gaps between when loans are repaid and when new ones were taken out.
For example, there is around a year between loan 7 being repaid and loan 8 being taken out.
The effect of these gaps is that STF could reasonably consider Mr Hs application afresh and
treat him as a new customer for each first loan after the break, this feeds into the
proportionate nature of the check. In all, I consider there to be four lending chains, and Ive
set them out below;
loans 1  5;
loan 6;
loans 7  8 and
loans 9  12.
Ive kept that all in mind when thinking about whether STF did proportionate checks were
carried out and whether the checks that STF did carried out showed STF that Mr H may
have been having financial difficulties.
Loans 1  4
There doesnt appear to be any ongoing disagreement about the outcome the adjudicator
reached for loans 1  4. So, I no longer think these loans are in dispute, so I wont be making
a finding on them.
But what I would add, is that I dont disagree with what the adjudicator said. Instead, thisdecision will focus on what happened when loans 5  12 were lent. But Ive kept in mind
loans 1- 4 as they do form part of Mr Hs lending history with STF.
Loan 5
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loan 5 were proportionate and Ill
explain why below.
STF has said, in the final response letter that a credit check has been carried out. STF
provided us an example copy of the sort of information it may have gathered at the time, but
the original results cant be provided.
But Id be inclined to think that from loan 5, STFs checks really needed to go further. At this
point in the lending relationship, I think STF ought to have been verifying Mr Hs income and
overall expenditure in order to have an accurate understanding of his actual financial
position. But whether the checks went far enough, doesnt have a bearing one whether I can
uphold the complaint about this loan.
But in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Mr H, STF also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during
the course of its lending relationship with Mr H. Having looked at the overall pattern of STFs
lending history with Mr H, I agree with our adjudicator that STF should reasonably have seen
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 5. I
say this because;
At this point STF ought to have realised Mr H was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. This was now the fifth loan in just over a year and Mr H had been 
indebted to STF for almost the entire time.
Loan 5, was also Mr Hs largest individual loan to date, although I accept that at the 
total amount Mr H had outstanding at any one time, hadnt decreased.
So STF ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr H was having to borrow 
further to cover an ongoing need and his indebtedness was increasingly 
unsustainably. It also seems that Mr Hs loan history up until this point clearly indicated 
that his underlying financial situation didnt seem to be improving, given his 
outstanding loan amounts at any one time werent decreasing.
Mr H had developed a pattern of taking new loans around the same time previous 
ones were repaid, for example, loans 5 was taken only a matter of days after loans 3 
and 4 had been repaid. And at times Mr H had more than one loan running at the 
same time. So, STF ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr H, was 
having to borrow further to effectively cover a longer-term financial need. To me, this is 
also indicative of his indebtedness not being sustainable.
Mr H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed STF. This was the 
largest loan Mr H had taken to be repaid over the longest term. Mr H had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to STF over a long period of time.
I think that Mr H lost out when STF provided loan 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the time in debt was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Hs ability to
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 5.Loan 6
Mr H didnt take any new loans for around six months, after he repaid loan 5. And when he
returned for further borrowing, he borrowed a much smaller sum to be repaid over a shorter
term. That means, I cant conclude this loan was unsustainable for Mr H and so cant be
upheld for the same reason as loan 5.
Its likely, that Mr H wouldve been asked about his income and expenditure before this loan
was approved, but due to the passage of time STF hasnt been able to provide this Service
with the information it collected.
It also seems likely that STF carried out a credit search, but its not been able to provide the
results. I do have the results from another search that a different lender carried out some
years later, but the report, does cover the period of time when this loan was approved. So, it
is possible, given what STF has told us, to look at that check to determine what information
(if any) may have been available to it at the time about Mr Hs situation.
STF has said about its credit checks;
We also obtain a credit report from one of the recommended agencies which allows
us to see if you have any CCJ's and your indebtedness to other lenders.
It isnt clear, given the above statement, that STF wouldve been aware at the time that Mr H
had been using (and using regularly) other short-term loans or high cost credit providers for
a number of years. The example credit check STF has provided, seems to suggest that it
only gathered information about the active accounts  rather than any past use of this type of
credit.
Looking at the credit report I have seen, there isnt any indication of any CCJs. Ive also
considered Mr Hs indebtedness to other lenders at the time of this loan, it seems that that
Mr H did have one outstanding loan, but there didnt appear to be a significant number of
other outstanding credits at this time.
In my view, there isnt a sufficient amount of outstanding debt or number of open accounts,
that may have led STF to either decline the application or to have prompted it to have carried
out further, more in-depth checks.
Overall, I think the checks STF carried out were proportionate and these checks wouldve
likely shown STF that Mr H was in a position to take on this loan. So, Im intending not to
uphold Mr Hs complaint about loan 6.
Loan 7
There was also another gap of around six months between Mr H repaying loan 6 and taking
out loan 7. Again, in my mind, this means that Mr H could be treated as if he was a new
customer and this then impacts the proportionate nature of any check that STF carried out.
So, unlike the adjudicator, I dont agree that this loan was unsustainable, as Mr H hadnt
returned for further borrowing for six months and when he did, he borrowed the same sum
as hed done for loan 6.
And for the reason reasons as loan 6, STF doesnt have the information it likely received
when it asked Mr H about his income and expenditure. Mr H also hasnt provided this
Service with any information about his circumstances at the time.
Again, a credit search wouldve likely have been carried out, and Ive once again consideredthe credit report that Ive found from another lender. I think its reasonable to use this
because it gives an overview of Mr Hs indebtedness with lenders at the time this loan was
approved  which is in line with the type of check STF says it carried out.
Mr Hs financial position according to the credit file, is markedly different to when loan 6 was
approved. I can see that Mr H had three loans that are categorised as being from a finance
house on the credit file, with payments totalling £140 per month.
On top of this, I can see that at the point loan seven was approved, Mr H already had 5
outstanding home credit loans with at least one other home credit provider, and at least two
of these accounts had run for longer than the provider had anticipated because Mr H had
some repayment problems.
So, I cant see how approving Mr H with another loan  taking his total to six outstanding
home credit loans was sustainable or was helping Mr H given that he had already
experienced some recent repayment problems repaying similar loans.
So, while, STF may have carried out a proportionate check for this loan, I dont think it is
likely it reacted to the information it likely saw from the credit checks. I think the results of the
credit checks wouldve likely showed STF that Mr H wasnt in a position to take on any
further loans because he was already over indebted and was struggling to make the
repayments, he was committed to making.
Im therefore proposing to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loan 7.
Loans 8  12
Loan 8 was taken over a year after loan 7 had been repaid. Again, I think this marks the start
of a new lending chain especially given that Mr H was returning for a similar amount. And
then for the reminder of the lending, there are some smaller gaps (of two or three months)
between when the loans were taken and after a previous loan had been repaid. Ive kept this
in mind when deciding whether STF has done anything wrong when these loans were
approved.
At this point in the lending relationship STF has been able to provide this Service with the
information it gathered about Mr Hs income and expenditure because its been able to
provide copies of the application forms that were completed.
Mr H declared he was working and earned between £380 to £405 per week. With declared
outgoings of between £75 and £170 per week. In addition to this, STF also double checked
some of this information, it has marked the application forms with notes to suggest it saw
various documents during the time these loans were approved from a P60 (tax document),
wage slips, bank statements and passport.
I would say that based on the figures that Mr H declared, STF wouldve thought that Mr H
had sufficient disposable each week to be able to afford the repayments he was committed
to making.
But like the other loans, it also seems to have carried out a credit search, again we dont
have the results for any of these loans, but I do have an idea as to the type of information it
may have seen at the time  given what STF has described in the final response letter.
I have once again, looked at the credit report with a focus on what outstanding loans and
debts Mr H had each time STF provided further borrowing to him. The information STF likely
had available when loan 8 was approved and this information likely showed STF thefollowing;
Mr H had five active credit accounts known as finance house with Mr H committed to
paying around £283 per month towards this lending.
He also had four active Home Credit accounts with other providers  the total starting 
value of these loans comes to around £5,740.
Mr H had recently taken one home credit loan for nearly £2,000.
So, with the credit report information STF likely obtained, it ought to have realised the £25
per week that has been noted on the application form as covering loan repayments couldnt
have been accurate.
In my view, it shouldve been apparent to STF that Mr H was likely borrowing significant
sums from other lenders, because he was having financial difficulties and was therefore
likely to need to borrow again to fill an ongoing need rather than to fill any shortfall in his
income that he was experiencing.
And like the adjudicator, if STF did know about past and historic accounts, and to be clear, I
cant be sure that was the case, it wouldve likely concluded that Mr H had been a regular
user of home credit loans  and other high cost credit for a number of years.
Moving forward, there doesnt appear to be a significant change in Mr Hs position.
Throughout the rest of the lending relationship Mr H continues to have a significant number
of other outstanding home credit and finance house loans, which in my view, made this
lending unsustainable for Mr H.
So even taking into account some of the gaps between the loans, it would appear that STF
had sufficient information to have concluded that Mr H was already over indebted and was
likely having problems managing his money.
For example, Mr H took out 5 new home credit accounts and high cost loans in November
and December 2017. And from the credit file, looks like that Mr H had actually increased the
amount and frequency of opening new credit accounts.
The pattern from Mr Hs credit file is of someone who is regularly opening and utilising
different forms of credit. To me, this reinforces the fact that these later loans werent
sustainable for Mr H and so shouldnt have bene given.
Im therefore intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loan 5 and loans 7  12.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Mr H and STF were asked to provide any further comments, evidence or information 
they wanted this Service to consider no later than 6 January 2021. 
STF didnt respond and therefore didnt provide any further comments in response to the 
provisional decision. 
Mr H acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision but didnt provide any further 
comments or evidence for this Service to consider. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr H hasnt provided any further information for me to consider, and STF didnt respond 
to the provisional decision. There is no new evidence for me to consider. I therefore see no 
reason to depart from the findings that I reached in the provisional decision. 
For the same reasons as given in the provisional decision, I still think, STF shouldnt have 
provided Mr H with loan 5 because it was unsustainable and loans 7  12 shouldnt have 
been lent, because the credit check results wouldve likely showed it that Mr H couldnt take 
on any further lending. 
Ive outlined below what STF needs to do in order to put things right for Mr H. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress STF should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not provided loan 5 and loans 7  12 as I think it ought to.
 
Clearly there are several possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there and
not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed between
him and STF which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, he may
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
STF shouldnt have given Mr H loan 5 and loans 7 - 12.
A. STF should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans.
B. STF should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. STF should pay Mr H A plus B.
D. STF should remove any adverse information you have recorded on Mr Hs credit file 
in relation to loans 7 - 12. The overall pattern of Mr Hs borrowing for loan 5 means 
any information recorded about it is adverse, so STF should remove this loan entirely 
from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires STF to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr H a
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Hs 
complaint in part.
Short Term Finance Limited should put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman