DRN-2086063
The complaint
Miss S complains about the service she received from Metro Bank PLC, her current account 
provider, following a problem with a direct debit payment. 
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In early-April 2020 a payment (about £385) was taken by direct debit from Miss Ss account 
by a third party, which Ill call S. She contacted Metro to say this was a mistake as shed 
arranged a payment deferral with S. Metro agreed to claim the money back through a direct 
debit indemnity claim. It credited her account with the disputed sum and told her if the claim 
failed, shed need to repay the money. Im satisfied Metro acted reasonably here as it hadnt 
made a mistake by paying the direct debit and claiming the money back was an appropriate 
action. 
In mid-April 2020 S challenged the claim and provided Metro with proof the payment was 
due. So, Metro debited Miss Ss account by the disputed sum. It wasnt Metros fault the 
claim failed, so I dont think it was wrong for it to debit the account. I say this because thats 
how the process works and also because its what it told Miss S would happen. The debit 
took Miss S into an unauthorised overdraft. This resulted in contact from Metro which Miss S 
was unhappy about. But it wasnt wrong for Metro to contact Miss S about an unauthorised 
overdrawn balance.  
Miss S raised the prospect with Metro of an overdraft both before and after the claim failed. 
This didnt materialise. But my understanding is an application wasnt made and given 
Miss Ss circumstances, it seems unlikely  on balance  an application would have been 
approved. I can also see Metro didnt charge Miss S interest on her overdrawn balance and 
Miss W was in the process of getting the disputed sum back from S anyway. With the above 
in mind, I dont think it was wrong for Metro not to offer Miss S an overdraft.
In mid-May 2020 Miss S told Metro shed been asked by S for a copy of its claim challenge 
so it could investigate what had happened and look to refund the payment it took in 
early-April 2020. She was told it would be sent to her within 24 hours. Miss S didnt receive it 
until nearly a fortnight later, and she needed to chase it up. Metro let Miss S down here and 
might have delayed the resolution of her dispute with S.
In late-May 2020 Miss S informed Metro the unauthorised overdraft on her account had 
impacted her creditworthiness. Metro was satisfied it had reported accurate account 
information to the credit reference agencies (CRAs), but recognised S, rather than Miss S, 
was most likely the reason she went overdrawn. It asked for evidence S had made a mistake 
and ultimately contacted the CRAs to have any adverse information about the account 
related to this matter removed. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Running throughout this matter is Miss Ss dissatisfaction with the customer service she 
received from Metro. In her view it was very poor and had a significant impact on her 
because of her personal circumstances. I agree Metro let her down at times. As mentioned 
above, it ought to have followed through on its promise to send her a copy of Ss claim 
challenge. Instead, she had to chase it and receipt was subsequently delayed by nearly a 
fortnight. And some of the calls could have gone better. One of the calls on 13 May 2020 
stands out for lacking appropriate sensitivity and being cut short by Metros call handler.
Overall, I dont think Metro did anything substantially wrong here as it wasnt responsible for 
the underlying issue with the direct debit. But I think the customer service was poor at times. 
Metro offered Miss S £50 compensation in recognition of the impact its customer service 
failings had on her. Our investigator thought £150 compensation was more appropriate. 
Miss S thinks more compensation is due. Im satisfied, however, that £150 compensation is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.  
Putting things right
Metro Bank PLC should pay Miss S £150 compensation, in total, in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience it caused her.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Metro Bank PLC to pay Miss S £150 compensation, in 
total. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman