DRN-3395277
The complaint
Mr B has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined his claim for water 
damage under his home insurance policy
What happened
Mr B had a home insurance policy with AXA from January 2021 and an insurance policy with 
a different insurer prior to that date. Mr B contacted AXA to make a claim in early September 
2021. Mr B said that his shower started leaking. The shower tray was removed in August 
2021 and this revealed significant water damage under the floor which extended to the 
bathroom, hall, and separate WC. The shower tray had recently dropped as the floor and 
joists were rotten. AXA instructed loss adjusters to attend the property to assess the 
damage. 
Mr B had arranged to fix the flooring and joists in the meantime as access to bedrooms 
wasnt possible once the damage was uncovered. Four separate leaks were also identified 
and rectified by Mr Bs plumber. 
Mr B explained that in November 2020, shower tiles had been removed as there appeared to 
be water damage and this included damage to a stud wall. The repairs were paid for by Mr 
B. During the middle of 2021 however, Mr B noticed that sealant had come loose and that 
the shower tray was moving slightly to create a gap between the sealant and shower panel. 
This allowed water to get behind the tiles. 
Both AXA and Mr Bs previous insurers declined the claim. AXA said that the known cause 
of the damage was the water ingress problem identified in November 2020 which pre-dated 
its policy. Mr B considered that AXA was responsible for the claim however, as there were 
no signs of the significant joist and floor damage during the previous policy period.
AXA paid Mr B compensation of £75 as Mr B hadnt received a copy of the loss adjusters 
report promptly and it also agreed that an e-mail from its representative could have been 
better worded. AXA apologised and provided feedback to its representatives. Mr B remained 
unhappy with AXAs response and referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. She said that when water damage occurs over two 
policies periods, our service has a standard approach and she thought that AXA, as the 
latest insurer, should take the lead on claims-handling. She accepted that the shower tray 
had dropped due to water sitting on the joists and flooring and that the cause of damage 
took place prior to AXAs period of cover. 
Our investigator thought that further damage also occurred during AXAs period of cover and 
acknowledged that AXA might not be responsible for the whole claim. That would depend on 
the terms, conditions, and exclusions of the AXA policy. 
AXA didnt accept our investigators view and the case has been referred to me to make a 
final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether it was unfair or unreasonable for AXA to have 
declined Mr Bs claim and to lead on the matter. Ive concluded that AXA didnt act in a fair 
and reasonable way in all respects and Ill explain why.
My starting point is to look at the terms and conditions of Mr Bs AXA policy. For damage 
caused by an escape of water, it includes cover for loss or damage caused by water leaking 
froma fixedwater installation. Standard exclusions apply regarding loss or damage 
caused gradually.
Mr Bs underlying concern is that neither insurer has taken the lead in handling the claim; - 
we have done nothing wrong and yet no-one seems to want to accept liability for what is a 
totally valid insurance claim. Hed had to cash in part of his pension and use all his other 
savings to pay the contractors to pay for the repairs. He made it clear that if the serious 
problem had been discovered in 2020, he would have dealt with the matter immediately and 
made an insurance claim at the time. He was adamant that the under-floor damage wasnt 
visible at that stage. He was also frank in saying that hed been carrying out other 
renovations at his own cost until the significant amount of damage was discovered and, at 
that point, he decided to make an insurance claim.
Mr B also acknowledged that the problem started with a bathroom renovation carried out in 
2014; When the tiles were replaced in November 2020 it was then discovered that the 
original contractor has not used the correct plasterboard and has just used standard boards 
but this was unknown to me. He considered that the pipe leaks which were also uncovered 
were very minor and hadnt been responsible for the damage. He said that they were slow-
dripping and falling onto concrete so that; All of the damage has been caused by water 
soaking into the walls when the shower was used.
Mr B thought AXA should settle his claim in full and then liaise with the previous insurers and 
seek an appropriate contribution towards the claim. He said that AXAs own loss adjuster 
stated that Mr B had a valid claim, although confirmed that the loss occurred prior to 
inception of AXAs policy. The loss adjuster also thought that Mr B had done everything he 
could to mitigate any loss.
In AXAs opinion, the damage resulted from the leak which commenced in 2014 and was 
then identified in November 2020. It concluded that the damage was too widespread and 
extensive to have occurred in the eight months during which it insured the home. Given the 
defective plasterboard was installed in 2014, and was only discovered to be inadequate in 
2020, AXA considered it likely that the leak had been ongoing during the intervening period.  
It said that its expert had identified the damage to floor and joists as being connected to the 
problem identified in November 2020 so that the loss therefore pre-dated its period of cover.
AXA stated that it accepted our services approach regarding water damage claims where 
damage has been concealed and the date of loss is unknown. However, it considered that 
this approach should only apply where it wasnt possible to confirm the date of loss, similar 
to subsidence claims. It was confident that the date of loss here pre-dated its period of cover 
as the cause occurred, was identified and was rectified before its policy started. It said that; 
the repair requirements, and costs are no different to what they would have been in 2020. 
In summary, AXA disagreed that it had acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner. It said 
that the customer was on cover with it, for a matter of months and rot to the extent noted would almost certainly have occurred prior to inception, the shower tray has merely dropped 
out of position due to a loss of support from the rotten joists. Due to the widespread and 
advanced state of rot in the joists, it considered that this damage would have occurred over 
a very long time and it wasnt possible for this to have occurred during AXAs period of 
cover.
Turning to the report of AXAs loss adjusters,, it referred to the work carried out in November 
2020 and noted that a few months later in april [Mr B] noticed that the floor and shower tray 
was dropping [and] discovered that the joist has rotten. It reported the damage to the 
affected areas as being pre-inception and that there was no policy cover. It also reported 
that some joists had rot and the rest had been renewed as theyd been suffering from old 
age. 
In reaching this decision, Ive considered all information, evidence and submissions 
produced by Mr B and by AXA. Mr B has been candid in explaining the historical issues 
affecting the shower and that he was carrying out further renovation work in any event. 
I also acknowledge that Mr B and his family have suffered considerable disruption and have 
incurred substantial financial outlay in identifying and resolving these issues. The issue for 
me to determine at this stage however is limited to the question of whether AXA should take 
the lead and consider the claim in the first instance. I note that neither insurer has come 
forward to lead on claims-handling to date and this has no doubt added to inconvenience for 
Mr B and his family.
In short, this is a matter where its claimed that damage straddles two insurance periods. 
When that is the case, (where the damage has been concealed and the date of loss is 
unknown), then our services usual approach would normally apply. In such a case AXA, as 
the most recent insurer would be expected to lead on claims-handling, even though it 
wouldnt necessarily be responsible for the whole claim. I agree however with our 
investigator, that its difficult to distinguish which insurer is responsible for what damage and 
that its often impractical or impossible to allocate an exact responsibility split.
Both AXA and Mr B appear to agree that the cause of the problem was the use of the wrong 
sort of plasterboard in 2014. They also appear to agree that the problems identified in 2020 
and 2021 were all caused by the original issue. Im also satisfied on the evidence that Mr B 
had no knowledge of the more extensive damage which was only revealed following removal 
of the shower tray. When works were carried out in November 2020, workmen didnt identify 
any further significant damage either. 
AXA accepts the principle that the current insurer should usually take the lead in such cases, 
however it seeks to argue that the circumstances here are slightly different. It states that the 
whole purpose of the usual approach is to protect customers from being stuck between 
insurers and agrees that this was the case for Mr B. It considers its impossible to say when 
damage first started or how much damage occurred during each policy period. 
Im not satisfied however that the date of the loss for the damage discovered following AXAs 
policy inception can be pinpointed, and its likely damage occurred during AXAs period of 
cover as well as before. I conclude that AXA should lead on the claim as the most recent 
insurer and review the claim in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy.
 
Whilst I have sympathy for Mr B and his family as to the expense and disruption that theyve 
suffered (which will be additional to any expense and disruption during recent renovations), I 
dont propose to award further compensation. I accept that the circumstances are unusual 
here, as its likely that most of the damage occurred before AXAs period of insurance and 
AXA has provided reasonable arguments why it shouldnt shoulder the bulk of the responsibility. I see however that AXA apologised and compensated £75 in total for certain 
service failings and I consider that this was a fair and reasonable response to those failings.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs claim and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
consider Mr Bs claim and assess it in line with the terms and conditions of his policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman