DRN-2979613
The complaint
Ms C has complained about how Society of Lloyds (SOL) dealt with a claim under her 
commercial insurance policy.
What happened
Ms C contacted SOL to make a claim when water entered a commercial property she 
owned. There were a range of issues with progressing the claim. Over three years later, 
while SOL was still considering the claim, it said the external work wouldnt be dealt with as 
part of the claim because the damage was the result of wear and tear.
Ms C complained to SOL. She said SOL had, through its actions, agreed to cover the 
external damage. Ms C said that due to the length of time it had taken SOL to deal with the 
claim, the amount of damage and the cost of repairing it had greatly increased. Ms C said 
SOL should pay for all of the damage to be repaired.
When SOL replied, it said all of the external repairs appeared to be maintenance related. 
The policy didnt provide cover for wear and tear or general maintenance. It had authorised 
some temporary repairs to be carried out, but had never accepted that the external repairs 
would be covered by the claim. Following a further review of the complaint, SOL then offered 
£600 compensation for the unnecessary delays and loss of expectation about the external 
work being covered as part of the claim. This took the total amount of compensation paid for 
the issues throughout the claim to £1,500.
So, Ms C complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said it 
was reasonable for SOL to decline to cover the external work, but there had been a range of 
delays during the claim. He thought the additional £600 compensation was appropriate in the 
circumstances. He also said SOL didnt need to pay the difference between two quotes for 
the work and didnt need to cover the lost rent. However, SOL should refund the premiums 
paid while Ms Cs property was damaged.
As SOL didnt agree it should refund the premiums, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 8 July 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
This has clearly been a very lengthy claim. Im only dealing with the issues relating to the 
period covered by the most recent complaint. Ms C complained to SOL on a number of 
occasions, but those complaints are not ones I can consider, as they werent brought to this 
service within the required timescales. However, Im aware of the issues raised as part of 
those complaints in order to aid my understanding of what happened.
Ive looked at whether it was reasonable for SOL to decide the damage was the result of 
wear and tear, rather than an insured risk under the policy. Having looked at the reports that 
describe the external damage identified, I think it was reasonable for SOL to conclude that it 
was the result of maintenance and wear and tear. So, I think it was reasonable for SOL to 
decline that part of the claim.
Ive also considered whether the time it took SOL to reach this decision meant it should have 
considered the claim for the external damage anyway. Ms Cs broker seemed to suggest 
that SOL had said it would cover the external damage, but I havent seen any evidence of 
this. It is also normal for an insurer to keep a claim under review. In this case, when SOL 
had access to more information about the nature of the external damage it became clear that 
it wasnt covered by the policy. I cant fairly require SOL to pay a claim for something that 
isnt covered by the policy. However, there has clearly been a loss of expectation here and I 
have no doubt that it will have caused Ms C distress and inconvenience. In this case, SOL 
offered £600 compensation in recognition of this, which I think was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Im aware Ms C was also concerned about other consequences of the delays with the claim 
and the external damage being declined. Ms C has said that the cost of the external works 
increased considerably because of the delays. Ms C provided a quote for £734 plus VAT 
that she said was prepared in 2016. She also provided a report from 2019 that was for 
£15,125 plus VAT. Ive looked at the quote and report and, in my view, these arent directly 
comparable. The quote is for replacing fascias and gutters and related work. However, the 
2019 report was prepared for SOL following access being gained to parts of the building that 
it hadnt previously been possible to inspect. So, the report was mainly listing external 
damage that it wasnt previously possible to have identified or inspected due to the access 
issues. As a result, I dont think it would be fair for me to compare the costs in the 2019 
report to the 2016 quote because the full extent of the damage hadnt been identified at that 
point. So, I dont currently intend to say that SOL needs to pay the difference between the 
two quotes.
Ive also thought about whether SOL should refund the premiums for the period that the 
claim was ongoing. Ms C had arranged for insurance, presumably because she wanted or 
needed it to be in place. For Ms C to have insurance in place, premiums needed to be paid 
for the policy. This meant that if Ms C needed to make a claim on the policy she was able to 
do so. Even if Ms C had no need to make a claim on the policy during that time, she still had 
the benefit of the policy. If Ms C decided not to get her tenant to pay the premiums, I dont 
think that was a matter for SOL or that it would be fair for me to ask SOL to refund the 
premiums.
Ms C also said SOL should cover the reduced rent. I can see this has been a very lengthy 
claim because of issues such as getting access to parts of the building, as well as with 
progressing the claim more widely. I can also see that the tenant had concerns about the 
potential disruption to his business from the internal work covered as part of the claim. Ms C 
only seems to have reduced the rent after SOL had already declined to cover the external 
work. Although I can understand Ms C may have felt the need to reduce the rent, by that 
time she was responsible for fixing the external damage and deciding when this happened. I 
think the underlying issue here is the loss of expectation that the external damage was 
covered, which Ive already said I think SOL has addressed through the compensation it 
offered. So, I currently intend to say that I dont think SOL needs to pay anything towards the 
reduced rent.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 7 August 2021.
Ms C didnt provide any comments.
SOL said it accepted the decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my provisional decision not to uphold this 
complaint and for the reasons previously given.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman