DRN-3932216
The complaint
Mr E complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost after he fell victim to an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr E responded to an advert he saw online regarding investments. Mr E followed the link on 
the advert and signed up to express his interest in having a trading account. Shortly after,  
Mr E was contacted by who he thought was an account manager, but he was in fact dealing 
with a fraudster.
The fraudster persuaded Mr E to transfer money in the belief that he was investing. Mr E 
was instructed to transfer money to an account he had set up with the account manager 
and then from here the money was moved to a crypto exchange, for what he thought was 
towards his trades. 
Mr E made payments totalling £3,990 to the fraudsters (Mr E has said that an initial payment 
for £250 was also made, but he added that this doesnt fall into the scope of this complaint). 
After asking to withdraw some profit, Mr E did receive a credit into his account for £6, which 
hes said made him think things were legitimate. Alongside this, Mr E has said he was able 
to see a trading platform and could see what he thought were profits being made. But 
unknown to him at the time, he was sending money that was being moved through to 
accounts the fraudsters controlled.
A breakdown of the payments Mr E made is listed below;
18 February 2022 £1,000
1 March 2022 £1,000
11 April 2022 £1,000
2 May 2022 £990
When Mr E tried to withdraw the full amount of the profit hed made, hes said he was asked 
to pay tax of £990, which he went ahead and paid. But he realised hed been scammed 
when he was then unable to get in contact with the company again and they ignored his 
communication. 
Mr E raised the matter with Monzo. Monzo issued its final response to Mr E on 
12 October 2022 not upholding his complaint. In summary it said Mr E hadnt taken steps to 
research the investment or to verify that it was legitimate, it added that it had provided Mr E 
with a warning at the time he made the payments.  
 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr E then brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, while he recognised Mr E had made the payments as a result of fraud, he didnt 
think Monzo could have been expected to prevent it. He said this because he didnt think the 
payments would have appeared as unusual or suspicious, so he didnt think it had missed an 
opportunity to identify the payments were being made in relation to a scam.
Through his representatives, Mr E disagreed with our Investigators view. In summary he 
maintained that the payments were out of character and were sufficient to have triggered 
internal fraud prevention systems at the bank.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can quite understand why Mr E would like Monzo to refund him under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM code). The CRM code is a voluntary code through which 
victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams can sometimes get their money back from 
the banks involved in the payments. But in this particular case, Im afraid the CRM code 
doesnt apply. I say this because, the CRM code refers to APP scams where the transfer of 
funds is transferred to another person. In this case, Mr E has said he transferred money from 
his Monzo account to another account in his name, that he had set up with the fraudster. 
This means Monzo isnt required to consider his complaint under the CRM Code, as Mr E 
didnt transfer his funds to another person but to another account in his name.
Ive gone on to consider Monzos wider obligations when dealing with authorised push 
payment scams. In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the account terms 
and conditions, Monzo is expected to execute authorised payment instructions without 
undue delay.
Its not disputed that Mr E was duped, but nor is it disputed that he requested these 
payments. So the starting position is that hes liable for the resultant loss. But there are 
some situations where we believe that banks, taking into account relevant rules, codes and 
best practice ought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked at the wider 
circumstances surrounding the transaction before deciding whether to make the payment(s). 
If Monzo failed to do so adequately, causing a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
Monzo has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it 
would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. On balance, I cant 
fairly say that the transactions here were so unusual or suspicious that they ought to have 
alerted Monzo that Mr E was at risk of financial harm.
I appreciate that overall, Mr E has lost nearly £4,000, which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over several smaller payments over a number of months which, in my judgment, 
would not have appeared particularly unusual.
I say this as, having looked through Mr E s bank statements for the months leading up to the 
scam, I can see the payments he made to the fraudsters were larger in nature, than 
payments hed previously made. But even so, I dont think this in and of itself, is enough to 
say Monzo should have treated the payments as suspicious. Im not persuaded that Mr Es 
activity should have stood out. The first payment he made was for £1,000. Its not 
uncommon for people to make a larger payment, and here Mr E has moved money into his account to facilitate the payment, which is quite typical of how his account is usually run. 
Where money is moved into the account to top up the balance, with outgoing transactions 
then being made leaving it with a low balance. Ive also seen that Mr E has previously made 
a number of faster payments.
I also dont think the other payments Mr E went on to make wouldve appeared as unusual. I 
say this because there is a time gap in between the payments and they are now being made 
to a payee that hes used before. More typically, fraudsters would attempt to drain funds, as 
quickly as possible, rather than over a number of months, to try and maximise their gain 
before their victims discover the fraudulent activity.
Overall, in the individual circumstances of this case, I dont consider, on balance, that the 
payments were so remarkable that I could fairly and reasonably have expected Monzo to 
have intervened. As a result, I dont think Monzo acted unreasonably in not making enquiries 
about the payments before processing them. There isnt enough here for me to think Monzo 
should have suspected Mr E might be the victim of a potential scam.
Ive gone on to think about whether Monzo did what it shouldve done once it was aware this 
was a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Monzo to refund the money to Mr E, I 
need to be satisfied that Monzo should have acted sooner in trying to recover the money. 
And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it made any difference. 
Here, I can see Monzo raised the matter with the receiving bank but unfortunately it wasnt 
able to recover the money. Sadly this isnt surprising considering the money had been 
moved through to other accounts after Mr E had made the transfers.
Its very unfortunate that Mr E has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting for him and I dont underestimate his strength of 
feeling. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Monzo should 
have done more to prevent Mr E from losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair for 
me to ask Monzo to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman