DRN-4003064
The complaint
Ms B complains UK Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In early 2016 Ms B applied for, and was given a loan for £7,500, which was repayable over a
period of 36 months. The repayments were around £329 a month. The reason given for
taking out the loan was debt consolidation.
Ms B says UK Credit shouldnt have given her the loan because it wasnt affordable. UK
Credit says it did check whether the loan was affordable, and based on those checks, Ms B
had enough disposable income to make the loan repayments.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and explained why I didnt think it should 
be upheld. I said:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs complaint.
UK Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Ms B irresponsibly.
It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms B
would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way.
UK Credit did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. It asked for some
information from Ms B before it approved the loan. It asked for details of her income and
verified this using a credit reference agency. It also asked her for details of her usual
outgoings. It reviewed her credit file to understand her credit history and existing
commitments. From these checks combined UK Credit concluded that Ms B had enough
monthly disposable income to afford the loan.
Based on what Ms B told UK Credit about her income and expenditure, as well as her plans
to use the loan to repay some of her existing credit (a loan and three credit cards), UK Credit
calculated she would have over £900 surplus income each month, including the payments
towards the new loan. Based on this, UK Credit was satisfied the loan was affordable. And I
agree, based on the information Ms B gave UK Credit, she does seem to have had enough
disposable income to pay the loan off in a sustainable way.
Ms Bs credit file did include some adverse information. She had three defaults recorded,
including an account that had only been defaulted two months earlier. And shed missed the
last payment towards two of her credit card accounts. UK Credit asked Ms B about this
information. The explanations she gave UK Credit for these defaults and missed payments
satisfied it and meant it didnt have any concerns about whether the new loan would be
affordable.
I agree with UK Credit that Ms Bs explanations for the adverse information on her credit file
are plausible. But given how much she was borrowing and the amount she would need to
repay, plus this information on her credit file, and the fact she was applying for the loan with
UK Credit only a few months after taking out a previous loan, I think UK Credit should have
done more to verify the information Ms B had given it. So I dont think it did proportionate
checks before lending to Ms B.
As proportionate checks werent completed, I have to consider what further checks are likely
to have shown. Our service has asked Ms B to provide further information, such as copies of
her bank statements from around the time she applied for this loan, which would show us
what UK Credit is likely to have found if it had done more checks. She hasnt been able to do
so.
In the absence of any information, other than that UK Credit obtained back in 2016, there
isnt enough to suggest that the loan was unaffordable to Ms B. As Ive explained, the
information given by Ms B to UK Credit suggests shell be able to sustainably pay the loan.
And the explanations she gave regarding the adverse information on her credit file are
plausible. Ive have seen insufficient evidence to conclude a more thorough affordability
check would have led UK Credit to find information that would suggest the loan wasnt
affordable.
I note Ms B did struggle with the payments towards the loan. But from everything Ive seen,
this was due to changes in her circumstances, rather than the loan being unaffordable from
the outset. I dont think UK Credit could have foreseen this when it agreed to lend to Ms B.
Overall, having considered everything, I currently dont think UK Credit did anything wrong
by giving Ms B the loan.
UK Credit didnt respond to my provisional decision. Ms B did respond, and she didnt agree 
with what Id said. She provided some further evidence that she says shows she couldnt 
afford the loan she was given by UK Credit. Shes provided:
Information from HMRC about her earnings. She says this shows her income was not 
consistent or regular and her take-home pay was a lot less than UK Credit used in its 
affordability assessment. 
Her tenancy agreement from the time. She says this shows her rent was much higher 
than the amount UK Credit used in its affordability assessment.
A gas bill from October 2016, which she says shows she was unable to keep up with 
her utility payments.
Ms B has also told us she is disabled, and she was very vulnerable. 
I shared the information Ms B had provided about her earnings and tenancy agreement with 
UK Credit. It confirmed this didnt change its position on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered this complaint, taking into account Ms Bs further submissions, I still 
dont think it should be upheld.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think the checks UK Credit did before it lent 
to Ms B were reasonable and proportionate. But while Ms B has provided some further 
information that could help me piece together what UK Credit might have found if it had done 
more checks, I still dont think Ive got enough to say its likely to have found the loan wasnt 
affordable. The information Ms B has provided shows her average monthly earnings for the financial 
year 2015/16 were just over £2,400. And UK Credit used a figure of £2,400 when it did its 
affordability calculation. This was higher than it should have been as it didnt take into 
account tax or National Insurance being deducted from her salary, which would make her 
take-home pay more like £1,900 a month. But even using this lower figure, together with the 
information Ms B gave UK Credit about her essential spending, this still suggests the loan 
would have been affordable.
It does appear, from the information Ms B has provided, that she stopped working at the 
company she was working at when she applied for the loan, shortly after it had paid out. And 
this might explain why she started having difficulties making the loan payments. But UK 
Credit asked Ms B about whether she expected there to be any changes in her employment 
when she applied for the loan, and Ms B said she didnt. I dont think UK Credit (or even 
Ms B) could have anticipated this would happen. 
Turning now to the tenancy agreement Ms B has provided. This shows her rent was nearly 
£1,800 a month. If I were to take this at face-value, I agree with Ms B that the loan clearly 
wouldnt have been affordable. It would mean she only had about £150 a month for all her 
other non-discretionary expenses. I think this is unlikely, as this wouldnt be enough to live 
on and Ms Bs credit file didnt show signs of this level of financial hardship.
When Ms B applied for the loan, she told UK Credit her rent was £800. She also told it she 
split her bills with someone else who rented one of the rooms in the property. And the 
electoral roll shows there were two other people living in the property between 2015 and 
2017. All of this suggests to me that Ms B split the total rent with at least one other person 
(maybe more), and she didnt pay the full £1,800 on her own. I dont know if the £800 was an 
accurate figure, but without any evidence to show it wasnt, I think its fair to rely on what 
Ms B told UK Credit at the time.
I acknowledge the gas bill Ms B has provided shows she owed money to the energy 
company in October 2016. But this is dated nearly eight months after she applied for the 
loan and is a final statement, rather than a final demand. So it doesnt necessarily follow that 
Ms B was in financial difficulties and unable to afford the loan repayments when she was 
granted the loan. As Ive already said, it seems Ms Bs employment situation changed 
shortly after she got the loan, and any difficulties she may have had with paying for her 
utilities, is likely to be connected to that.
So, in the absence of any further information to show what Ms Bs actual outgoings were in 
March 2016  such as bank statements from the time  I still dont have enough to conclude 
a more thorough affordability check would have led UK Credit to find information that would 
suggest the loan wasnt affordable. We have asked Ms B for details of her bank account 
from the time to see if its possible to get the relevant bank statements, but shes said she 
doesnt have these anymore.
As I said in my provisional decision, its not disputed that Ms B did struggle to keep up with 
the loan payments and I dont doubt this would have been a stressful time for her, 
particularly in light of her disabilities. But, based on everything Ive seen, this is more likely to 
be due to unforeseen changes in her circumstances, rather than because the loan was 
unaffordable from the outset. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman