DRN-4436356
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint arises from his mortgage accounts with Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
Mr C, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says that Barclays has incorrectly and 
unfairly failed to apply a term extension to the mortgage after he applied for, and was 
offered, a ten-year fixed interest rate product.
To settle the complaint Mr C wants Barclays to honour the terms of the mortgage offer and 
extend his mortgage terms to match the end date of the ten-year fixed interest rate product.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. 
In addition, Barclays has acknowledged it made a mistake, so I dont need to analyse the 
events in depth in order to decide whether or not the bank is at fault; all I need to determine 
is whether the redress already offered by Barclays is fair, reasonable and sufficient, or if 
there are any other errors for which the bank should be required to offer redress.
Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr C being identified. So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; 
rather, itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Mr C has a mortgage with Barclays originally taken out in 2009, which is split into three 
sub-accounts with total borrowing of about £1.4 million. The mortgage term is for 15 years.
In September 2022, when there was about two years remaining on the mortgage term, Mr C 
went online to complete an interest rate switch for one part of his mortgage. In error, a 
ten-year fixed rate of 3.05% was offered. Mr C, however, selected a two-year fixed rate of 
3.13%. 
Mr C then attempted to apply for a new rate for another part of the mortgage, and again the 
ten-year fixed rate of 3.05% was offered. Mr C applied for this and this was accepted. Mr C 
then called to cancel the two-year rate hed chosen for the other part of the mortgage, as he 
wanted the ten-year rate to be applied to that part of the mortgage too. Barclays explained 
that if Mr C wanted a term extension, hed need to have an appointment with a mortgage 
adviser and go through an affordability check. 
However Barclays also later said (in error) that the mortgage would be extended to match 
the interest rate product.
Mr C complained. He wanted the ten-year rate on all three parts of the mortgage, and 
believed that this meant the terms were also extended by ten years. 
Barclays acknowledged an error had been made. The bank paid Mr C £150 compensation, 
but wouldnt agree to extend the mortgage term or apply the ten-year interest rate product to 
the entire mortgage. The bank agreed to apply the 3.05% rate to the part of the mortgage for 
which the rate had been accepted, but wouldnt extend the term or apply the rate to the rest 
of the mortgage.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. An investigator looked at what had happened. 
Although she initially thought Barclays should offer the rate for the whole of the mortgage, 
after further consideration, the investigator changed her view. 
She was satisfied that Barclays offer to apply the 3.05% interest rate for the remainder of 
the existing mortgage term on one part of the mortgage (account ending 3685, 
approximately £439,000)) was fair. However, the investigator didnt think Barclays was 
required to apply the ten-year rate to the rest of the mortgage, or extend the term on any part 
of the mortgage. 
The investigator noted that when the mortgage term came to an end in January 2025, 
Barclays should not charge any early repayment charge (ERC) on account 3685, but the 
capital balance would be due to be paid at that date. The investigator also asked Barclays to 
pay an additional £150 compensation.
The investigator also clarified that this outcome only covered this one particular mortgage, 
and not another mortgage held by Mr C with Barclays, where he had also wanted to apply 
for a ten-year fixed rate product. 
Barclays accepted the investigators findings, but Mr C did not and asked for an ombudsman 
to review the matter. He does not understand why, when he received a mortgage offer for a 
ten-year fixed rate, and was told by Barclays that his mortgage was extended to 2033, that 
this doesnt constitute a binding offer to extend the mortgage term.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I note that although the investigator referred in her findings to Mr and Mrs C, the 
mortgage account in question is in the sole name of Mr C, and so he is the only party eligible 
to complain about this mortgage account. I intend no discourtesy to Mrs C, but as she is not 
the account holder, she cannot be on this complaint.
Barclays doesnt dispute that it made an error in this case. Where a mistake has been made, 
I have to look at the consequences of that error, and to think about what would have 
happened and what Mr C would have done if the error hadnt been made.
I dont know why, when he applied online, Mr C was able to apply for a ten-year fixed rate 
when the mortgage term had only two years left to run; that shouldnt have happened, and 
was probably down to a software glitch or error in the banks system. 
If things had gone right, Mr C would only have been shown interest rate products that were 
actually available to him based on the length of the mortgage term and the loan-to-value 
ratio (LTV) of the property.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr C believes, having been offered a ten-year fixed interest 
rate product, this meant that Barclays agreed to extend his mortgage term by ten years, to 
end in 2033. However, thats not the case, and Ill explain why.Its important to note that a mortgage loan and a mortgage interest rate product are two 
different things. A loan is the underlying transaction in which money is lent; the interest rate 
product is a separate set of terms that sit on top, and which can be renewed from time to 
time. For example, an agreement to borrow a specified amount repayable over a specified 
repayment period at the lenders standard interest rate is a mortgage loan; an agreement 
that for a certain period a fixed interest rate rather than the standard rate will apply is a 
product that sits on top of the loan.
In this case, the mortgage offer dated 3 December 2009 shows that the loan (in three parts) 
was granted over a 15-year term. The interest rate product for which Mr C applied in 
September 2022 shows that the interest rate product (notwithstanding it is a ten-year fixed 
rate) applied to the mortgage for the remainder of its term  not for the duration of the 
interest rate product.
I can appreciate Mr Cs position  particularly after he was told by Barclays that the 
mortgage term would extend to match the end date of the interest rate product; this was, in 
fact, incorrect. But, in line with its regulatory obligations, Barclays cannot extend a mortgage 
term on an ad hoc basis, and Im not going to direct the bank to do this, for the reasons 
given below.
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the Mortgage Market Review (MMR) 
carried out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which took place after the financial 
crash in 2008. This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way 
residential mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for 
stricter lending assessments, aimed at protecting consumers and encouraging mortgage 
lenders to act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they had passed tests under the old rules but 
wouldnt under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are 
contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to 
affordability
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out an 
affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to 
vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential repairs to 
the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. 
But the lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of best 
interests.This means there are two routes that an application for an existing borrower can go down. If 
theres no change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, theres no 
obligation to carry out an affordability assessment at all. And if there is a change to the terms 
of the mortgage contract material to affordability, a lender could still decide to allow an 
application without an affordability assessment if doing so would otherwise be in the 
borrowers best interests.
A variation of the mortgage term is a material change to the original loan. Mr C wants to 
extend the mortgage term by ten years, which is a two-thirds increase on its original term. 
Barclays is therefore entitled to carry out an affordability assessment as stated above, but 
shouldnt use this to decline the application if it is otherwise in Mr Cs best interests.
The original mortgage term is due to end when Mr C reaches the age of 70, and Barclays 
criteria provide that the maximum age at the end of the mortgage term is 70 or retirement 
age. It would therefore be reasonable for Barclays to investigate and consider whether or not 
Mr C would meet the banks affordability criteria where he is asking for an extension of the 
mortgage term past the age of 70, subject to sustainability and plausibility of any potential 
employment or source of income.
In addition, this is an interest-only mortgage. I dont know what the intended repayment 
vehicle is intended to be (and I dont need to know for the purpose of this decision), but for 
any term extension it is reasonable for Barclays to want to consider the repayment strategy 
and ensure it both meets its current lending criteria and is likely to pay off the mortgage at 
the end of the term. Where the intended repayment strategy is the intended sale of the 
property, the banks lending criteria include limitations on the LTV it will permit for this. 
In the circumstances, if Mr C wants Barclays to extend the term, he will need to make an 
application in order that Barclays can give it due and proper consideration, in line with the 
requirements of MCOB and MMR, as set out above.
Putting things right
Barclays has agreed, having in error offered Mr C the ten-year 3.05% fixed rate for one part 
of his mortgage (ending 3685) that it will honour this for the remainder of the existing 
mortgage term (which is due to end in January 2025). I think this is fair in all the 
circumstances, given that, without the error which allowed the application to proceed, Mr C 
would not have been able to have that rate in any event.
Im not persuaded that Barclays is under any obligation to offer the 3.05% ten-year fixed rate 
on any other part of the mortgage, as Mr C doesnt qualify for that rate.
For the reasons given above relating to MMR, I do not require Barclays to extend the 
mortgage term to match the expiry of the ten-year fixed interest rate product. If Mr C wants 
to extend the mortgage term, he will need to make an application to Barclays.
If Mr C repays account 3685 in January 2025 when the term comes to an end, Barclays 
should waive the ERC that applies on the ten-year fixed rate product. Likewise, if Mr C 
makes a successful application for a term extension which ends before the expiry of the 
ten-year fixed rate product, on repayment of account 3685 no ERC should be applied to that 
part of the mortgage.I agree with the investigators recommendation that Barclays should pay an additional £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, on top of the £75 already paid, making £225 
in total.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I direct 
Barclays Bank UK Plc to settle the complaint as set out above. I make no other order or 
award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman