DRN-2082438
The complaint
Miss W says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans MYJAR provided to Miss W in 
August 2018 and January 2019. Loan 1 was repayable over 12 months, and 
loan two over 24. The details are set out below.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount,
£
1 11/08/2018 12/10/2018 725
2 26/01/2019 - 1475
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. Miss W disagreed saying better 
affordfability checks should have been done given the number of other short term 
loans that she had at the time. So the complaint was passed to me.
In my provisional decision  the key findings from which I have summarised below  I 
set out why I was planning to uphold Miss Ws complaint. I asked both parties to let 
me have any comments or further information by 3 August 2020.
Summary of my provisional decision
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
This means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss W 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of 
a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. These factors include the lower a consumers income; the higher the 
amount due to be repaid; and the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the 
longer the period of time during which a customer has been given loans.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to 
establish whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow 
this is the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be 
able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well 
as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided 
in this context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
Miss W says she had a number of other short term loans at the time so MYJAR would 
have realised these loans werent affordable if it had spent more time on its checks.
MYJAR says it agreed to Miss Ws application after asking for income and 
expenditure data and after completing credit checks and using third party data to 
verify what Miss W had declared. And this information combined suggested that Miss 
W would be able to make the repayments she was committing to. So, in these 
circumstances it wasnt irresponsible to provide the loans.
Ive looked at the checks MYJAR carried out for both loans. As it said, I can see it 
gathered informaiton about Miss Ws income and expenditure, validated this using third 
party sources, and carried out credit checks. I think these checks were proportionate. 
However, I dont think MYJAR reacted correctly to the information it collected. I say this 
as I dont think the checks showed the loans were affordable for Miss W.
When she applied for loan 1 Miss W declared her monthly income to be £1650, her 
housing cost to be £600, her living costs to be £65 and her other credit repayments to be 
£85.
MYJAR has told us it used Minimum Income Standard (MIS) household expenditure data 
to verify its applicants declared living costs, using the figure from the MIS database if it 
was higher. For Miss W the MIS figure was £556. And I can see from the TAC report that 
MYJARs credit check showed that Miss Ws monthly credit repayments were around 
£742.This meant MYJAR should have understood Miss Ws total monthly expenditure to 
be around £1898  so in excess of her income. It follows I think it was wrong to give loan 
1 to Miss W.
For loan 2 Miss W disclosed an income of £1800. There was no change to her declared 
housing cost of £600, and again the MIS figure for living costs was £556  and so this 
replaced the lower figure she had declared. At this date the TAC report MYJAR used for 
its credit check showed Miss Ws monthly credit repayments to total £522. This meant 
MYJAR should have understood Miss Ws total monthly expenditure to be £1678  
leaving her only around £6 in disposable income after the monthly repayment for loan 2. 
As a responsible lender, MYJAR could not consider that to be sufficient, rather it showed 
loan 2 wasnt sustainably affordable for Miss W. So I think MYJAR was wrong to give 
loan 2 to Miss W.
So I concluded I was planning to uphold Miss Ws complaint in full.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision, accepting the outcome.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
As neither party provided any new evidence or comments for me to consider, there is no
reason for me to change the findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
It follows, I am upholding Miss W's complaint in full for the reasons set out above.
Putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
If MYJAR has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) It should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss W towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything it has already refunded.
B) It should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss 
W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss W originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) It should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss W as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Miss W 
having made overpayments then it should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. It should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss W. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Miss W. It shouldnt pursue any of the outstanding balance made up of principal it 
has already written-off.
E) MYJAR should remove any adverse information recorded about loans 1 and 2 
from Miss Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If MYJAR intends to 
use the refund to reduce an amount Miss Ws owes, it must do this after tax.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ws complaint and MYJAR Limited must pay her compensation as set 
out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman