DRN-3627744
The complaint
Miss R complains about her insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA). Her complaint is about 
delays and the way AXA handled a claim under her home insurance policy for damage to 
her property from a flood.
 
Reference to AXA includes their agents who administer the policy and assess claims. 
This decision covers those issues raised by Miss R in her complaint to AXA (and their final 
response) in November 2021 and then raised in her complaint to this service. It doesnt 
cover issues raised after that point, other than as context to this decision.
What happened
Miss Rs property suffered a flood in December 2020, so she contacted AXA to make a 
claim. AXA appointed a firm (Q) to validate and manage the claim. In turn, Q appointed a 
contractor to quote for the cost of the work needed to reinstate the property to its condition 
before the flood. Separately, Miss R obtained a quote for the reinstatement from her own 
builder (April 2021). Another contractor (C) was appointed to carry out the drying of the 
property, which they completed in March 2021. Given the extent of the damage caused by 
the flood, Miss R had to move into alternative accommodation (a relative).
However, the quote from Qs contractor wasnt provided until November 2021 and was 
incomplete and contained details relating to a different property. Given these issues, Q told 
Miss R they wouldnt use their contractor and wanted to appoint their own surveyor to 
inspect the property and validate the quote from Miss Rs builder. 
Unhappy at the time taken to deal with her claim and reinstate her property, Miss R 
complained to AXA. As well as the delays and time taken, she didnt think her property had 
been properly dried out. She was also unhappy at not being paid disturbance allowance for 
some time. 
In their final response in November 2021, AXA partially upheld the complaint. They accepted 
Miss Rs claim hadnt been handled to a good standard and more care should have been 
taken to consider Miss Rs circumstances. AXA also said theyd review the position with Miss 
Rs alternative accommodation, as she wouldnt be able to remain there. Theyd also review 
the disturbance allowance payable to Miss R while she was in alternative accommodation. 
AXA apologised for the way the claim had been handled and the time taken. They offered 
her £1,000 in compensation for the inconvenience.
Miss R then complained to this service. She was unhappy her property hadnt been 
reinstated nearly a year after the flood and had to move in with a relative (who died during 
the period). Miss R was also unhappy at the number of surveyor visits to assess the damage 
and that other flooded properties in the area had been reinstated. She also wasnt happy 
with the alternative accommodation allowance paid by AXA and wanted compensating for 
the costs of her having to travel back to her property to let people in to assess the damage. 
She wanted AXA to accept her claim and the cost of the damage.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint, concluding AXA didnt need to take any 
action. She thought the claim hadnt been handled well, with significant, avoidable delays  
particularly in getting a quote from Qs contractor. She also thought the delays had a 
significant impact on Miss Rs health and wellbeing, meaning she had been unable to work. 
But taking all the circumstances into account, the investigator thought AXAs offer of 
compensation was fair, so wouldnt be asking them to increase it.
Miss R disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She didnt agree that £1,000 was fair given she hadnt been able to live at her 
property for over a year, and the claim still hadnt been settled and the reinstatement work 
carried out. 
In my findings I agreed with the investigators conclusion the claim hadnt been handled well, 
with significant, avoidable delays  particularly getting a quote from Qs contractor. I also 
agreed the delays had a significant impact on Miss Rs health and wellbeing.
I also considered other issues raised by Miss R. I thought it reasonable for AXA to appoint a 
new surveyor to assess the damage. Partly because they would need to assess the current 
state of the property (rather than at the time of the flood). I also thought it reasonable for any 
surveyor report to be used to validate the quote from Miss Rs builder (or from any builder 
appointed by AXA, or Q). Given the length of time from the first quote from Miss Rs builder, I 
thought it reasonable for that quote to be updated to reflect both the current condition of the 
property, as well as the general increase in prices in the intervening period. 
On delays to payment of a disturbance allowance, I thought it fair for AXA to review the 
position, as well as the position on alternative accommodation in general. I thought AXA 
should resolve these issues swiftly. 
On the drying of the property, given the length of time the property had remained empty, I 
thought any new or updated quotes for the reinstatement work  and surveyors inspection - 
would include any drying or other work needed to reflect the propertys current condition. 
On the question of compensation, I concluded it was clear from what happened and from 
what Miss R said, the situation had been very distressing for her and caused a serious 
amount of disruption  and significantly greater than had the claim been better handled. I 
also considered what Miss R said about the impact on her health, her vulnerability and her 
being signed off work for a period (and subsequently left her job, citing the stress of the 
situation. In these circumstances, I concluded a higher compensation figure was appropriate. 
Taking all the circumstances into account, I thought £2,000 would be fair and reasonable. 
Because I considered additional issues to those considered by our investigator (and reached 
a different conclusion on what would be a fair and reasonable amount of compensation) I 
issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further.
This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id first want to re-assure Miss R Ive considered carefully what shes told us about the 
impact the case has had on her health and wellbeing. I appreciate flooding is very traumatic, 
in terms of the immediate impact and the damage it causes. Having to move out of a 
property is also stressful, compounded by the uncertainty and delays that have clearly been an issue in Miss Rs case. Ive borne these points in mind when deciding whether AXA have 
acted fairly towards Miss R.
The key issue in Miss Rs complaint is how theyve handled her claim, including the time 
taken to assess the damage and the reinstatement work required. Its not disputed theyve 
not handled the claim well and theyve acknowledged this in their final response. Theyve 
also accepted this when responding to our investigation  saying that nothing progressed 
between March 2021 and November 2021, waiting on a response (a quote) from Qs 
contractors. AXA say this is inexcusable  and I agree. I also agree with Miss R when she 
says its unacceptable that the claim hasnt been settled, and the reinstatement work not 
started, over a year from the flood. Ill consider this when I come on to look at what would be 
a fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered by Miss R.
Ive also considered what AXA have said about the other issues raised by Miss R, included 
in their final response. First, given the issues with the contractor appointed by Q, AXA 
wanted to appoint a new surveyor to assess the damage (either one from Q, or their own). 
Miss R was reluctant to do this, given the time that already elapsed. However, I think its 
reasonable for AXA to do this. I say this partly because they would need to assess the 
current state of the property, having been empty for well over a year. Given this, I think its 
likely that further deterioration has occurred, so I think its reasonable to assess the state of 
the property as it is now (rather than at the time of the flood). I think its also reasonable for 
any surveyor report to be used to validate the quote from Miss Rs builder (or that from any 
builder appointed by AXA, or Q). My understanding from Miss R is that a visit has now taken 
place (and a settlement offer subsequently made).
Given the length of time from the first quote from Miss Rs builder, I think it would be 
reasonable for that quote to be updated to reflect both the current condition of the property, 
as well as the general increase in prices in the intervening period. Inflation is higher than 
usual and the cost of some commodities has increased sharply. As a result, there has been 
an increase in costs of rebuild materials. As well as building materials, other costs have also 
increased including labour costs. Given this, I think it would be reasonable for the quote to 
be updated to reflect current prices (and in any settlement offered by AXA).
Miss R also complained about delays to payment of a disturbance allowance, which AXA 
said they would review the position on the disturbance allowance payable to Miss R while 
she was in alternative accommodation, as well as the position on alternative accommodation 
in general. I think thats fair  but Id expect AXA to resolve these issues swiftly, given the 
time Miss R has been in alternative accommodation and the avoidable delays with the 
handling of her claim. 
Miss R was also unhappy with the drying carried out at the property, which C said had been 
completed satisfactorily. However, Miss R has said her builder (when inspecting the property 
to quote for the reinstatement work) told her that additional drying would be required. Given 
the length of time the property has remained empty, Miss R says it has deteriorated. I dont 
have reason to doubt what shes said, but Id expect any new or updated quotes for the 
reinstatement work  and surveyors inspection - to include any drying or other work needed 
to reflect the propertys current condition. 
Taking all these points together, Ive considered the question of compensation. In their final 
response, AXA acknowledged the issues with their handling of the claim and the delays 
experienced by Miss R. They also acknowledged the inconvenience this caused Miss R. 
They offered £1,000 in compensation. Miss R says this isnt fair as she hadnt been able to 
live at her property for over a year, and the claim still hadnt been settled and the 
reinstatement work carried out.
 Ive considered both views carefully. Its clear from what happened and from what Miss R 
has said that the situation has been very distressing for her and caused a serious amount of 
disruption to her. While the circumstances would always have meant some disruption while 
the claim was assessed and the property reinstated, the avoidable delays caused by AXA 
(including those from Q and their contractor) have meant this disruption has been 
significantly greater than had the claim been better handled. Miss R has described the 
impact on her health, as well as her vulnerability. I think the disruption has been serious, with 
the impact felt over many months. AXA acknowledge that effectively nothing happened for 
six months between March 2021 and November 2021. Even at that point, the claim was 
effectively starting again with the need for a further surveyor report and assessment of the 
work needed for reinstatement of the property. The situation and the stress also led to Miss 
R being signed off work for a period. I also understand from Miss R that she has now had to 
leave her job, citing the stress of the situation.
In these circumstances, Ive concluded a higher compensation figure is appropriate. Taking 
all the circumstances into account, I think £2,000 would be fair and reasonable. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Miss Rs complaint in 
part. I intend to require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Assess Miss Rs claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, based on an 
updated quote from Miss Rs builder for the reinstatement required for her property 
(or a quote from a contractor appointed by AXA or Q). Any settlement offered by AXA 
should reflect the updated quote (quote).
Pay Miss R £2,000 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Miss R accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Mr F responded to ask about her separate complaint to AXA on the issues regarding 
alternative accommodation and disturbance allowance. She provided a copy of a further final 
response from AXA (offering an additional amount of compensation). She wanted to know 
whether that additional amount was included within the £2,000 compensation figure I 
included in my provisional decision.
AXA didnt respond by the date requested when I issued my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva have acted fairly towards Miss R.
On the issues about alternative accommodation and disturbance allowance raised by Miss 
R, in my provisional decision I made it clear the decision only covered those issues raised by 
Miss R in her complaint to AXA (and their final response) in November 2021 and then raised 
in her complaint to this service. It didnt cover issues raised after that point (other than as 
context to the decision). Consequently, in my provisional findings, I noted AXA said they 
would review the position on the disturbance allowance payable to Miss R while she was in 
alternative accommodation, as well as the position on alternative accommodation in general. 
So, the £2,000 compensation figure in my provisional decision doesnt include any element for the issues about alternative accommodation and disturbance allowance. Given these 
points, if Miss R isnt happy with AXAs final response on those issues, she would need to 
raise a further complaint to this service.
 
Based on these considerations, I havent changed my mind on the conclusions in my 
provisional decision. So, my final decision remains unchanged, for the same reasons set out 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Miss Rs complaint in part. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Assess Miss Rs claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, based on an 
updated quote from Miss Rs builder for the reinstatement required for her property 
(or a quote from a contractor appointed by AXA or Q). Any settlement offered by AXA 
should reflect the updated quote (quote).
Pay Miss R £2,000 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Miss R accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman