DRN-3723793
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Vitality Health Limiteds decision to reject his claim under his 
private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A had a private medical insurance policy with Vitality which started in July 2019. He made 
a claim under the policy in November 2019 for a problem with his knee and provided 
evidence of the problem from his current GP. Vitality wanted Mr As medical records from his 
previous GP. He had some problems getting these records, partly due to the pandemic. He 
eventually got them in January 2022 and sent them to Vitality. By this time hed already paid 
for a scan of his knee. Vitality reviewed the records, which showed Mr A had been treated 
for a knee problem before he took out his policy. Vitalitys claims team checked the details 
recorded of the application made by Mr A. These suggested he hadnt declared the previous 
problem hed had with his knee. Because of this, they referred the matter to their 
underwriting department. 
According to Vitalitys records Mr A contacted them on 11 February 2022 and said he 
wanted to cancel his plan. It was eventually cancelled on 21 February 2022. Mr A has said 
he only told Vitality to do this after hed been told they wouldnt cover the problem with his 
knee. But its not clear from the records Vitality have provided when he was told this over the 
telephone. All I can see is that Vitality issued a final response on Mr As complaint about the 
delay with his claim on 12 March 2022. In this they said hed chosen not to declare the 
previous problem with his knee when he took out the policy. And that the underwriters were 
going to write to him to find out why he failed to declare this. And  depending on his reply  
the underwriters may decide to rewrite the terms of his plan and apply an exclusion for 
claims relating to a problem with the knee retrospectively. Vitality went on to explain that 
because hed now cancelled the plan they did not need to complete this process. 
Mr A responded to Vitality to explain that hed answered all the questions he was asked 
relating to his medical history correctly when he took the policy out. And in July 2022 Vitality 
listened to a recording of the call Mr A made to take out the policy. After doing so, they 
acknowledged that Mr A had indeed told their agent about the previous problem with his 
knee. And they said theyd re-assess Mr As claim without the retrospective exclusion 
relating to his knee. 
Mr A asked us to consider his complaint and told us that he hadnt heard anything further 
from Vitality. Vitality told us separately that because Mr A had cancelled his plan they 
werent going to be able to consider his claim further. 
One of our investigators considered Mr As complaint and gained Vitalitys consent to 
consider everything that had happened with regards to Mr As policy and claim, both prior to 
their final response in March 2022 and after it. 
He issued his first view on the complaint in August 2022. In this he said Vitality should have 
identified much earlier that Mr A had declared the previous problem with his knee. And that 
he felt Vitality should have confirmed cover for Mr As claim in November 2019. He further 
explained that this meant he didnt think they should have turned it down. He said that 
because Mr A had cancelled his policy, Vitality should reinstate it and assess his claim, but 
this would be subject to Mr A paying the policy premiums he would have paid if his policy 
had continued. 
He also said Vitality had taken far too long to assess Mr As claim and that this had caused 
him distress and inconvenience. In view of this, he recommended they pay him £500 in 
compensation.
Mr A responded to the investigators view. He informed him that he was in significant pain, 
so hed had the operation he was told he needed following the scan on his knee in May 2022 
and paid for this, along with physiotherapy sessions as a follow up. He also said he was 
concerned that if he paid the premiums to have his policy reinstated Vitality might then turn 
down his claim. 
Vitality didnt agree with the investigators view. They said  even if theyd realised from the 
outset that Mr A had declared the previous problem with his knee, they still would have 
needed him to provide his previous medical records. And  because he didnt do this until 
January 2022  they couldnt have assessed and settled his claim prior to this. They 
explained that because Mr A cancelled his policy in February 2022 his claim wasnt reviewed 
as priority. They also said they should only have to pay £300 in compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. Plus, they said they wouldnt consider Mr As claim until hed paid the 
outstanding premiums. And that the monthly premium may have gone up when the policy 
renewed in July 2022 if his claim had been accepted. 
Our investigator considered the comments of both parties and then issued a second view on 
Mr As complaint. In this he recommended that Vitality consider Mr As claim for the cost of 
the initial consultation and all the eligible treatment hed received for his knee problem. And, 
if they decided his claim was covered, they should then reinstate the policy and pay his 
claim, less any premiums Mr A would have paid if he hadnt cancelled his policy. He 
explained that if Mr A wanted to claim for treatment received after his policy would have 
renewed, then Vitality could work out what the premiums would have been after this and 
deduct these from Mr As claim. He stuck with his recommendation that Vitality should pay 
£500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr A responded to say he appreciated the investigators view and made some additional 
points. He reiterated his point that hed only cancelled his policy once he was told that his 
claim would not be paid. And he thinks its clear Vitality did have the opportunity to promptly 
identify hed declared his previous problem with his knee much earlier, as once theyd 
tracked down the original sales call, they told him theyd proceed with the assessment of his 
claim. 
Vitality have responded to say they dont agree with the investigators recommendations. 
They maintain that  even if theyd realised Mr A had declared the previous problem with his 
knee when he took out his policy, theyd still have had to wait for his previous medical 
records before deciding whether to pay his claim. So, they dispute they had multiple 
opportunities to make a decision on his claim. They also dont think Mr As policy should only 
be reinstated with him paying the outstanding premiums if they agree to pay his claim. 
Theyve said they could understand the investigators suggested approach if Mr A had made 
the decision to cancel after the underwriting decision had been made to retrospectively add 
the exclusion. But he chose to do this before this had been made. And theyd have expected 
him to maintain his policy and keep up payments until theyd made this decision.    What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it for the same reasons as our investigator. 
Ive noted Vitalitys point that Mr A cancelled his policy before being told they were going to 
turn down his claim. This is contrary to what Mr A has said, but the records provided by 
Vitality do suggest it is what happened. However, like our investigator, I dont think it alters 
the fact that Vitality should have realised much earlier that Mr A had declared the previous 
problem hed had with his knee. And its clear from this that they should have agreed to 
settle his claim much earlier. Also, I dont think Vitality should have stopped assessing Mr 
As claim after he cancelled his policy. This is because they should have realised theyd 
made a serious error in suggesting he hadnt told them about his knee problem and that to 
treat him fairly, they needed to explain this and consider his claim, subject to him agreeing to 
reinstate the policy. The overall process may still have taken longer than normal due to 
delays getting Mr As medical records, but Mr A wouldnt have experienced the significant 
level of distress and inconvenienced he experienced as a result of very poor administration 
and investigation by Vitality. So, I agree with our investigator that £500 in compensation for 
distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable.
In view of Vitalitys failure to deal with the matter properly, I also agree with my investigator 
that it is fair and reasonable for them to consider Mr Rs claim for any treatment he received 
up to when his policy would have renewed on 13 July 2022. And if they consider it would 
have been covered by his policy if it had remained in force, they should pay what would have 
been due to him, which will reflect any excess payable under the policy. But Vitality can 
deduct any premiums Mr A would have paid between when he cancelled his policy and 13 
July 2022. Vitality should also add interest to any amount due to Mr A, as he has paid for his 
treatment and so been deprived of money he should have had. In considering the claim 
Vitality will be entitled to expect Mr A to provide evidence of what treatment he received and 
what he paid for it. 
If some of the treatment Mr A received was after the policy would have renewed on 13 July 
2022 and this would have been covered by the policy if Mr A had renewed it, Vitality should 
then pay what would have been due to Mr A, less a deduction to reflect what he would have 
paid in monthly premiums from renewal up to the point his treatment ended. I appreciate 
what the policy terms say about cancelling the policy, but in view of whats happened, I think 
this is the fair and reasonable approach. Vitality should also add interest to any amount due 
to Mr A, again, because he has been deprived of this money. If nothing is due after the 
premium has been deducted then this will mean Vitality wont need to pay anything to Mr A 
for the treatment he received after 13 July 2022. 
I have of course noted Vitalitys point about it not being fair for them to have to assess the 
claim and pay what it is due less the premiums, as opposed to Mr A paying the backdated 
premiums and then them assessing the claim. But I think the approach I have set out is fair 
and reasonable because Vitalitys handling of the whole issue was poor. And I dont think it 
would be appropriate to expect Mr A pay a significant sum without knowing what Vitality is 
going to pay in respect of his claim.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint and make Vitality do 
the following:Consider Mr As claim for any treatment he received up to when his policy would have 
renewed on 13 July 2022. And if they consider the treatment he received up to this point 
would have been covered by his policy if it had remained in force, they should pay what 
would have been due to him, which will reflect any excess payable under the policy. But 
Vitality can deduct any premiums Mr A would have paid between when he cancelled his 
policy and 13 July 2022 from the amount that would have been due in settlement of his 
claim. They should also add interest to the final amount due to Mr A at 8% per annum 
simple. This will be payable from the date Mr A paid the amounts due for his treatment to 
the date of actual payment.  
If some of the treatment Mr A received was after the policy would have renewed on 13 
July 2022 and this would have been covered by the policy if he had renewed it, Vitality 
should then pay what would have been due to Mr A, less a deduction to reflect what his 
monthly premiums would have been after renewal up to the point his treatment ended. 
They should also add interest to any amount due to Mr A at 8% per annum simple from 
the date he paid the amounts due to the date of actual payment. If nothing is due after 
the premium has been deducted then this will mean Vitality wont need to pay anything to 
Mr A for the treatment he received after 13 July 2022. 
Vitality must also pay Mr A £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Vitality must tell Mr A if they have made a deduction for income tax from the interest due. 
And, if they have, how much theyve taken off. They must also provide a tax deduction 
certificate for Mr A if asked to do so. This will allow Mr A to reclaim the tax from His 
Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and order Vitality Health Limited to do 
what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman