DRN-3611209
The complaint
Mr W complains that Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) has provided poor service when 
handling a claim he made.
What happened
Mr W is a director of a limited company which Ill call R. R holds an insurance policy that 
provides medical care for its directors and employees when they make a successful claim.
Mr W is a beneficiary of that policy. He says he first tried to contact Vitality to make a claim 
for medical support in February 2020. He says hes spent many hours on the phone to no 
avail, and hasnt been able to get the care he needs. When he finally managed to get a 
doctors report to Vitality to support his claim, he says he was told the policy would have to 
be renewed before his claim could be met. 
Mr W says hes been treated unfairly and is asking for about £730 compensation. He 
complained to Vitality about this, but it doesnt think it did anything wrong. Mr W has asked 
us to review the complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Vitality had done much, if anything, wrong. She noted that 
treatment would only be provided whilst a policy was in force. She said that, as Vitality only 
received a GP report two weeks before the policy was to expire, that it was unlikely Vitality 
would have had time to arrange any treatment before the policy expired. She didnt think 
Vitality had unfairly delayed providing treatment through poor service, so she concluded Mr 
Ws complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Mr W disagrees, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise this isnt what Mr W wants to hear, but I will 
explain how Ive reached this decision.
Mr W says he first contacted Vitality about a claim in February 2020. Vitalitys internal 
records show that he did contact it at this time  but its notes only say Mr W was querying a 
bill for about £30 hed received. Theres no mention of a new claim. 
I dont doubt that Mr W believes he asked about a claim at this point, even if Vitality didnt 
record this. If there was a mis-communication here, then Id expect Mr W to contact Vitality 
again fairly quickly, and for Vitality to proceed with assessing the claim.
Vitality sent us its records, which show no further contact from Mr W until June 2020, when 
his wife called. Mr W says he spent many hours on the phone trying to contact Vitality and 
speak to one its panel of GPs. He says much of this was whilst Vitalitys staff had to work 
from home because of Covid-19. As its possible this prevented Vitality from keeping records 
of calls, we asked Mr W to send us something that showed hed been trying to make contact. 
He's sent us a phone bill which shows his wifes call in June, but not anything that shows 
frequent and/or long calls. Mr W says this evidence is hard to find, as he uses many different 
phones. I understand that, but without some further evidence of his efforts I cant say Vitality 
ignored him or provided poor service between February 2020 and when it considered his 
claim in October the same year.
Mr W also says that he doesnt use the internet, so when he did eventually contact Vitality he 
should have been given the option to speak directly to one of Vitalitys doctors. Vitality says 
a consultation can only be booked online, and sent us evidence to support this. Mr W also 
says he wasnt told that he could be referred for treatment by one of Vitalitys doctors, and so 
went to the trouble of providing a report from his GP and a full medical history. Vitality says it 
never asks for a full medical history. Theres no recording of a call where this was discussed, 
so I cant say what was said, or how any misunderstanding might have occurred.
Vitality also says Mr W had claimed successfully previously, so he must know how the policy 
and claims process works. I can see from Vitalitys records that Mr W had made a previous 
claim. So I do think hed have had some knowledge of what to do, and he doesnt seem to 
have queried whether he needed to send so much information. 
Once he provided a report from his own GP, Vitality did agree he had a valid claim, It did that 
a few days after receiving the report, so I dont think it held the claim up at this point.
The GP report wasnt received until shortly before the policy expired. I dont know whether 
Vitality would have arranged treatment over the longer term, but I agree with our investigator 
that its unlikely it could have arranged anything before the policy expired. The terms and 
conditions do say that treatment will only be provided whilst a policy is in force, so it isnt 
unreasonable for Vitality to ask that it be renewed before committing to meeting a claim that 
would, most likely, result in treatment during the next period of insurance.
In summary, Im not persuaded Vitality provided Mr W with poor service.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman