DRN-4058853
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct (First Direct), 
after he was the victim of a theft while abroad resulting in his wallet and phone being stolen, 
and his bank card being used for three transactions without his permission.
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in great detail here. But broadly summarised, Mr F was abroad on holiday with 
his partner. Unfortunately, on the second day Mr F had his wallet and phone stolen.
Mr F realised a couple of hours later and contacted First Direct to put a block on his card and 
to see if there had been any activity on his account.
Mr F was told that there had been three transactions carried out at a fashion retail store for 
£1,350.44, £1,536.93 and £70.93.
Mr Fs card and banking app were blocked and suspended, and Mr F was passed to 
First Directs fraud team regarding the transactions.
First Directs fraud team looked into the matter and, according to its internal system, it 
showed the disputed transactions in question had all been PIN verified. Mr F was at a loss 
as to how this had happened as he hadnt used his card, so didnt think someone had seen 
his PIN and he hadnt written his PIN down or stored it anywhere.
As First Directs system was showing the transactions as PIN verified  and without a further 
explanation showing a possible point of comprise regarding the PIN  the adviser declined to 
refund the transactions.
Mr F was unhappy but left the matter, as he had to go to the police station to report the 
crime. The Police required proof of the disputed transactions and as Mr Fs banking app had 
been suspended Mr F contacted First Direct the next day seeking assistance with this. Mr F 
explained to the adviser that he needed evidence of the transactions urgently as he was due 
to leave the country the next day. Mr F was passed to First Directs digital team and, in trying 
to support Mr F gain access to his banking app temporarily, during their discussion it was 
mentioned by the adviser that possibly a one-time pass code could have been used to 
verify/authorise the transactions. 
Mr F, having raised his unhappiness with the outcome of the fraud claim at the time, and 
having had a complaint logged about the matter by First Direct, chased for a response upon 
his return to the UK. Subsequently, in call on 30 November 2022, First Directs complaint 
handler identified that the transactions had not been PIN verified and were in fact manually 
signed for. The confusion had stemmed from the fact First Direct had two systems that it 
could check to see how a transaction had been processed/authorised.
 
As Mr Fs PIN hadnt been used, First Direct raised a successful fraud claim and ultimately 
the three disputed transactions were refunded. First Direct apologised for the upset and 
inconvenience it had caused and paid £100 as compensation.
Mr F, while relieved that his PIN hadnt been compromised, considered that First Directs 
actions had caused him to cut his holiday short and return home. Mr F considered that he 
was left thinking his PIN had been breached, he was being held liable for nearly £4,000 and 
had been told that as possibly a one-time pass code had been used, his phone was at risk 
meaning he might be open to cybercrime.
Mr F was also concerned that he had provided the Police with false information  as he had 
informed them that his PIN had been used. With Mr F saying it had hampered the Polices 
investigation and, on several occasions, it was suggested that he may have been in 
collaboration with the fraudsters, due to them knowing the PIN number.
  
Mr F strongly considered First Directs actions led to his decision to end his holiday and 
return home. Mr F therefore considered First Direct should cover the consequential losses 
he suffered as a result. Mr F sought to claim a compensation amount from First Direct to 
cover the cost of flights back to the destination to have the holiday he and his partner should 
have had, an amount to cover various cancellations of trips planned and also an amount to 
cover the cost he incurred in rescheduling a flight to come home.
First Direct reviewed the matter and while it acknowledged it had made an error, it 
considered Mr F had made the decision to end his holiday so wasnt liable for the costs he 
incurred. It also advised that Mr Fs card had been stopped so no further fraud could have 
occurred. 
Unhappy with First Directs response, Mr F referred the matter to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint and upheld it, in part. 
In short, they felt First Direct should have known about the alternative system and checked 
both systems before declining Mr Fs claim for fraud. They recognised that Mr F was put 
through additional unnecessary inconvenience  requiring him to make phone calls  and 
the misinformation undoubtedly added additional stress. The Investigator recommended that 
First Direct pay an additional £200 on top of the £100 it had already paid. However they 
didnt consider First Direct were liable for the costs Mr F was seeking to claim  as they felt 
the decision to end the holiday and return home was one Mr F had taken and First Direct 
hadnt said anything to Mr F about returning home. 
First Direct accepted the Investigators opinion. And Mr F disagreed. 
So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Mr F was the victim of a theft of his personal belongings, while abroad. This must have been 
an awful experience for him and his partner to go through at a time that was meant to be 
enjoyable. And in this case, it is clear that First Direct made an error. First Direct should have ensured 
all the relevant systems were checked when declining Mr Fs claim for fraud. Mr F clearly 
states on multiple occasions that he hadnt kept his PIN written down or stored anywhere 
and hadnt used his card on the holiday, so there wasnt the possibility of shoulder-surfing. 
Given the circumstances Mr F found himself in, a victim of theft while abroad, First Direct to 
my mind should have explored the situation further as it rightly did later on. I certainly agree 
that this would have prevented some of the unnecessary and additional worry that was 
caused. And, as Mr F has correctly pointed out, it resulted in him providing incorrect 
information to the Police at the time. 
That said, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold First Direct liable for the actions 
Mr F subsequently took in deciding to return home or that it is required to cover the costs 
Mr F is now seeking.
The majority of the impact here to my mind was Mr F falling victim to a theft. This must have 
been a horrible experience to go through as it also required Mr F to take immediate 
additional actions to limit/mitigate the potential loss. He had to contact all of his relevant 
banking providers to get any accounts or cards blocked. 
However when Mr F contacted First Direct, Im mindful his card and banking app were 
blocked/suspended  and Mr F was aware of this. So no further fraud could occur. And no 
doubt Mr F carried out the same actions with any other banking providers he had. I think this 
is an important factor here. While it would have been distressing to have had his phone and 
wallet stolen  by contacting the necessary banks/providers of those accounts, the risk of 
further financial harm to Mr F in relation to those accounts had been stopped.
And, in listening to the initial call Mr F had with First Direct when he reported the matter, 
First Direct enquired as to whether Mr F had enough funds in the meantime. Mr F advised he 
had, and that his partner had another card so they could cover any expenses. 
However, after having his fraud claim declined, with First Direct advising Mr F that the 
transactions had been carried out by PIN, Mr F  concerned that his PIN had been 
compromised  took the decision to cancel the rest of the holiday and arrange to fly home. 
Subsequently in his call with First Direct the next day, when he was trying to get supporting 
evidence of the transactions for the Police, Mr F advised that he needed the information 
urgently as he was due to fly home the next day. During this call Mr F was subsequently 
passed to First Directs digital team and advised there was the possibility a one-time 
passcode could have been sent. 
Mr F was further concerned that his phone may have been compromised. And Mr F says 
because he was concerned that his phone could have been accessed and that he could 
have been the victim of cybercrime or that his home address could have been known from 
his phone  he had no option but to return home. 
But I also have to consider Mr F had already made the decision to return home having been 
told that his PIN had been compromised, which was prior to finding out there was a 
possibility that his phone was compromised when the adviser subsequently mentioned that a 
one-time pass code could have been used. 
And Mr F was also aware from his conversation with First Direct the previous day that it was 
his physical card that had been used albeit with First Directs incorrect understanding at the 
time that it was carried out via PIN. So, at the time Mr F made the decision to return home, it was seemingly because he was 
under the belief that his PIN had been compromised somehow  with Mr F not 
understanding how  and his card had been used with his PIN and his fraud claim had been 
declined because of it. Given Mr F had taken steps to block his accounts from any further 
risk of financial harm and had enough funds (through his partner) to carry on with the 
holiday, I dont think this warranted Mr F having the necessity to return home. 
I dont find there to be a persuasive correlation between First Directs error and Mr Fs 
decision to go home. Its likely this was a decision Mr F took for his own reasons or a 
combination of reasons rather than solely based on the fact hed been given incorrect 
information about the use of his card. To my mind while I appreciate Mr F most likely wanted 
to sort things out, he reasonably could have remained on holiday and continued to liaise with 
First Direct on the matter or picked up the issue when he returned from the holiday. And 
therefore, it would be unreasonable to hold First Direct liable for the costs incurred when 
Mr F decided to return home.
Summary
Overall, First Direct provided Mr F with incorrect information at an already distressing time. 
And it declined to refund Mr F the three transactions in dispute based on that incorrect 
information. First Directs offer of £100 compensation doesnt reflect the additional 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience Mr F suffered by having to make additional phone 
calls to First Direct and in providing the Police with incorrect information  which to my mind 
could have been avoided. And I agree that a further £200 (bringing the total compensation to 
£300) should be paid by First Direct to Mr F. 
Im not satisfied First Direct are liable for the additional compensation/costs Mr F is seeking. 
I say this because, Mr Fs account with First Direct had been protected from the possibility of 
any further fraud and Mr F, through his partner, seemingly had enough funds to carry on with 
their holiday. I appreciate the holiday may well have been ruined  given what happened  
and I can understand why someone may wish to return home in those circumstances, but I 
dont think it was ultimately necessary for Mr F to return home  rather it was a decision he 
made.
Putting things right
I direct First Direct to pay Mr F an additional £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
(on top of the £100 already paid) for the incorrect information it relied on when it declined 
Mr Fs fraud claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay compensation, as set out above, within 28 days of 
receiving notification of Mr Fs acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman