DRN-3233917
The complaint
Mr D is a sole trader. He complains that Lloyds Bank Plc unfairly declined his Bounce Back 
Loan application. 
What happened
Mr D decided to apply for a business account with Lloyds so he could then apply for a 
Bounce Back Loan (BBL) on 28 June 2020. His personal account was with a bank that was 
part of the Lloyds banking group  but as it wasnt participating in the BBL Scheme, it 
directed its customers to Lloyds.
A few days after Mr D had applied, Lloyds declined the application. The bank said it was only 
opening business accounts for certain customers who held a personal account with it before 
2 March 2020 and had been trading before 2 March 2020. 
Mr D didnt agree with the banks decision and raised a complaint. He also sent evidence to 
Lloyds which he believed supported his application, including his account details and 
information relating to his 2018/19 tax return. 
Lloyds upheld the complaint in part on 18 August. The bank said it had reviewed Mr Ds 
application again and its decision remained unchanged. But Lloyds apologised that Mr D had 
experienced poor service when hed called the bank and visited the branch, to try and 
resolve the problems with his account application. And paid Mr D £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. 
However, Lloyds subsequently changed its decision and opened him a business account on 
25 August. Mr D then submitted a BBL application to Lloyds in early September. He didnt 
receive a response from the bank, so he called on 23 September for an update. Lloyds told 
Mr D that his application had been successful and the BBL funds had been credited to his 
account on 15 September, and that hed been sent an email confirmation. 
Mr D tried then tried to transfer the BBL funds from the business account to his personal 
current account  but the account was blocked. Mr D raised a further complaint as he said 
the banks actions were costing his business money. The business account was finally 
unblocked on 19 October and he was able to make the transfer to his personal account. 
Lloyds upheld this complaint in part and paid Mr D £100 for the inconvenience caused and 
£20 towards the call costs hed incurred. However it said it couldnt award Mr D for the loss 
of income hed suggested, as this was a speculative loss. Mr D didnt agree and asked this 
service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She said it was reasonable 
for Lloyds to ask Mr D to open a business account but there had been unreasonable delays 
in getting the account opened. She also thought the bank had taken too long to undertake its 
checks for the BBL transfer which meant Mr D had lost out on a month interest free period. 
So she said Lloyds should refund the months interest on the BBL and pay a further £200 
compensation.
Mr D didnt agree as he didnt think the recommended compensation wasnt enough for the 
loss hed incurred  which he believed was around £3,900 for every six weeks - or to make 
an impact on Lloyds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold it in part. Ill explain why.
Mr D and Lloyds have both provided detailed evidence about this complaint. Ive taken on 
board all their points  although Im not going to respond to each point individually. Instead 
Ill set out what I consider to be the key points in how Ive reached my decision.
Account issues
Its not disputed by either party that it was reasonable for Lloyds to ask Mr D to open a 
business account with the bank so he could apply for a BBL. However, I dont think Lloyds 
processed Mr Ds application fairly. Mr D had been directed to Lloyds because his own bank 
 which was part of the same banking group  wasnt participating in the BBL Scheme, but 
Lloyds didnt give him the opportunity to make this clear before it rejected his initial 
application. It then rejected Mr Ds application for the same reasons despite his explanation 
that he did fulfil the criteria and the additional evidence hed provided that showed this. 
Mr D raised his concerns with the bank in July, but it took a couple of months for Lloyds to 
request and then review the information hed provided and finally process the application. 
Ive also seen that Mr D had to repeatedly chase Lloyds for an update  both by phone and 
email  as the bank didnt return his calls. And I recognise why he escalated this matter 
externally as he believed this was the only way to get the bank to review his application 
fairly. So given that Lloyds had all the information it needed to progress Mr Ds application - 
and the bank hasnt been able to explain why there was a delay - I dont think it treated Mr D 
fairly.
Transferring the BBL funds
Lloyds has acknowledged that there was a delay in allowing Mr D to transfer the BBL funds 
from the business account to his personal account as the bank was carrying out further 
checks. I acknowledge Lloyds terms and conditions allow them to do this, and that the bank 
has regulatory obligations to meet. However, I dont think the time it took to undertake these 
checks was reasonable. 
Mr D was making a transfer to his personal account, which the bank had already been given 
the details of. Ive also seen that Mr D explained how his business transactions worked when 
he was applying for his business bank account with Lloyds. So I think the bank ought 
reasonably to have been aware that Mr D would want to transfer the money to his account 
so he could continue trading. 
Lloyds has said that the BBL was drawn down into Mr Ds business account on 15 
September. It was then available to transfer around 19 October. Based on what Ive seen, 
Im not persuaded that the bank should have taken over a month to complete these checks. 
Ive also seen that Mr D had to chase Lloyds again for updates and to understand what was 
happening with the BBL funds  which wasnt confirmed until mid-October. Therefore I dont 
think Lloyds treated Mr D fairly here either.  Putting things right
Mr D has told us that since the investigator issued her opinion, hes agreed with Lloyds that 
his repayments for the BBL will been deferred for six months in line with the Scheme rules. 
However, this doesnt reduce the impact of losing the months interest free period from 
September to October. So I think the bank should still refund the months interest payment to 
Mr Ds loan account as recommended by the investigator. 
Mr D has also told us the compensation recommended wasnt enough to cover the financial 
loss his business has incurred. However, although hes provided an estimate of the losses, 
he believes hes incurred, this relates to a period in 2021 rather than 2020 - so I cant 
reasonably use this as a fair comparison. Im also not persuaded that Mr D would have been 
able to trade in 2020 at the same level hes stated, due to circumstances not related to the 
delay in receiving the BBL  such as the predictive software issues hes mentioned.  
I recognise that Mr D believes he could have made a profit had he had access to the BBL 
funds sooner, but hes also noted that that market is changeable. So I think its reasonable to 
believe that Mr D could equally have made a loss at this time, due to the uncertainty of the 
markets. Mr D has himself noted that its difficult to show how a potential loss can be 
quantified here, as its dependent on the financial markets - which are subject to fluctuation. 
Therefore, whilst I agree that Mr D experienced a loss of opportunity because of the delay in 
receiving the BBL funds, unfortunately I dont have enough substantive evidence to support 
the figures hes suggested. This means that based on the evidence available, the potential 
losses Mr D says hes made are hypothetical and I cant award compensation for this type of 
loss. 
I also acknowledge Mr D thinks we should award more compensation as a corrective 
mechanism, but we arent here to fine or punish a business for making a mistake. And as our 
investigator has already explained, its not in the remit of this service to look at the impact of 
a financial businesss actions on all complaints. Our powers only allow us to consider 
individual complaints, so I can only look at the impact of Lloyds actions on Mr D.
Overall, I think Mr D was caused inconvenience by Lloyds delays in both processing his 
business account application and undertaking its checks for the BBL fund transfer. So I think 
the bank should pay Mr D a further £200 compensation on top of the £220 its already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct Lloyds Bank Plc to pay Mr D 
a further £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused and refund one months interest 
of the original BBL balance to the loan account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman