DRN-2960522
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) unfairly 
cancelled his motor insurance policy and refused to cover the costs of the third party claim 
against him. 
  
What happened
Mr P had a motor insurance policy with Watford that started in April 2019. A named driver on 
his policy reported a minor incident to Watford in September 2019. She told Watford that 
there was no damage to the other car when she registered the claim. But Watford noted that 
the third party involved might make a claim against Mr Ps policy. 
The third party did make a claim for damage to their vehicle. Watford refused indemnity on 
the claim because Mr P was commuting at the time of the incident. Theyd reimbursed the 
third party for their excess and the cost of the hire vehicle. So were also seeking 
reimbursement from Mr P for this. Watford also cancelled his policy as they said his use of 
the vehicle fell outside of the class of use permitted. 
The cancellation letter Watford sent Mr P in October 2019 asked him to pay the outstanding 
balance on his motor policy of £438.94. When Mr P complained about the cancellation and 
the indemnity refusal, Watford said hed incorrectly answered the question hed been asked 
at inception about how his car would be used. And that they considered this allowed them to 
cancel his policy and refuse indemnity on the claim. Mr P was then pursued by the other 
drivers insurer for its costs. 
Mr P brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought it should be upheld. He thought 
there had been a misrepresentation under the relevant legislation. He thought it was a 
qualifying misrepresentation.  He felt the guidance outlined in CIDRA shouldve been 
referred to when making the decisions to decline cover and cancel his insurance. 
As Watford didnt confirm what alternative actions they wouldve taken if Mr P had disclosed 
his commuting use, our investigator felt that on balance, cover wouldve been provided on 
different terms with a likely higher premium. So he recommended Watford took the following 
steps to put things right:
- pay a proportion of the claim according to the percentage of correct premium 
allowing for commuting use Mr P had paid;
- consider the available remedies available under CIDRA in respect of the cancellation; 
and
- pay Mr P £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they caused him.
Watford didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They 
said Mr P hadnt complied with the policy terms. They said that CIDRA wasnt being relied on 
in this case. They felt that he simply wasnt covered for the accident hed had. So the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 July 2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive largely come to the same conclusions as our investigator. But without 
evidence from Watford to the contrary, Ive assumed that if Mr P had selected Business use 
by you instead of Social only, his premium wouldnt have changed. So I intend to uphold 
the complaint. Ill explain why.
Watford thought that The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) didnt apply in this case. But I disagree, I think the relevant law in this case is 
CIDRA. This is because Mr P was asked a question about how he planned to use the car. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Our investigator thought Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he stated in his application that he used his car for social domestic and pleasure 
purposes only. And Ive looked at the question he was asked when he completed the 
application and I agree he failed to take reasonable care. I acknowledge that English isnt Mr 
Ps first language so its possible this made it difficult for Mr P to understand the questions. 
But I cant hold Watford responsible for that.
The reason I consider that Mr P failed to take reasonable care is because he was asked how 
he would use the car. And he was given several options: Social only, Social including 
commuting to a single place of work, Business use by you, Business use by you and 
spouse/civil partner, Business use by spouse/civil partner, Business use by all drivers, 
Commercial travellers. Ive seen a screenshot of the quote screen and it also has notes 
showing further information about what each of the options covered. And so I think this was 
a clear question. 
Mr P chose Social only. But I think the options were clear and the policy documents also 
excluded travel to a place of work or study. And I think this means Mr P failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he said he would use the car for social purposes only. 
Watford havent provided evidence showing that they wouldnt have provided cover if Mr P 
hadnt made this misrepresentation and chosen Business use by you. Nor have they 
shown that his premium wouldve gone up. Our investigator did ask them to provide such 
evidence. Without any evidence to the contrary, I would expect cover to have still been 
provided at the same or very similar terms. So Im satisfied Mr Ps misrepresentation was not 
a qualifying one under CIDRA. 
So Im satisfied Watford wasnt entitled to cancel Mr Ps policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And I think it shouldve dealt with the third party claim against him. And  as CIDRA reflects 
our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Watford to rely on 
it to cancel Mr Ps policy doesnt produce a fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
Im satisfied that Watford unfairly cancelled Mr Ps policy. They also asked him to pay the 
rest of the outstanding premium and declined indemnity on the claim. These actions have 
caused Mr P distress and inconvenience. Our investigator recommended that Watford 
should pay Mr P £75 compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id 
require in similar situations. 
Mr P has provided evidence that he paid £438.98 in respect of the outstanding premium. But 
he confirmed that he hasnt paid either the third-party insurer or Watford any money in 
respect of the claim. 
To put things right, Watford need to return Mr P to the position he wouldve been in if theyd 
indemnified him for the claim in the first place. 
Response to my provisional decision
Watford acknowledged my provisional decision but supplied no additional information. 
Mr P didnt respond.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.
  
Putting things right
I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do the following: 
1. Remove any records of the cancellation of the policy from any internal or external 
databases where its been recorded. 
2. Provide a letter to Mr P showing that the cancellation has been removed from his 
records
3. Refund to Mr P any additional premiums hes paid to his new insurer due to the 
cancellation if he cant successfully get a refund from them using the letter provided 
in 2.4. Restore indemnity to Mr P on the claim. 
5. Refund the £438.98 Mr P paid in respect of the outstanding premium
6. Pay Mr P £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. I require Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited to take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman