DRN-3158568
The complaint
Miss M says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She said that she had other 
commitments that she was struggling to repay when Morses lent to her. She thinks it 
shouldve seen this and not approved the loans. 
What happened
This complaint is about one home collected loan Morses provided to Miss M. Miss M 
borrowed £200 in February 2016. She needed to make 20 weekly repayments of £15. 
Miss M had problems repaying the loan and it was passed to a third-party collection agency, 
I understand in December 2017.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the checks Morses did were likely 
to be proportionate and the loan repayments looked affordable. 
Miss M, through her representative, disagreed with the adjudicators opinion but didnt 
provide any further comments or evidence for this Service to consider. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive seen a record of the information Miss M provided when she completed her loan 
application. Miss M said she had a weekly income of £366 and she had regular weekly 
outgoings of £245. So, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to think that the loan 
repayments, of £15 a week, were affordable for Miss M.  
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Miss M mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. Miss M hasnt provided any further information about 
her circumstances. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on the information it 
obtained.
Overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Morses did for this loan was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to approve it was reasonable. Im not upholding 
Miss Ms complaint about it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman