DRN-4053998
The complaint
Mr G complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd declined his claim on his property 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G had a property insurance policy for a property he owns and rents out. In February 2022 
he made a claim after a storm led to the collapse of a stand alone garage. 
Accredited investigated the claim but later declined it saying the garage collapsed due to 
wear and tear that was highlighted by the storm, rather than the storm being the main cause. 
And this was excluded from policy cover.
Mr G complained as he said hed been told the claim would be accepted. And he said the 
garage had had no maintenance problems before the storm, so he didnt agree this was the 
cause of the damage. Accredited didnt uphold the complaint so he asked this service to 
investigate.
Our investigator thought Accredited had acted fairly by declining the claim based on the 
evidence. However she thought it had caused some avoidable delays and recommended it 
pay £100 compensation to make up for these.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When deciding whether an insurer acted fairly by declining a claim for storm damage, we 
consider three questions. Firstly, whether there is evidence there were storm conditions at 
the time the damage was caused. Next, whether the damage is consistent with storm 
damage and lastly whether the storm was the main reason for the damage. If were satisfied 
that the answer to all three questions is yes then we would say the insurer wasnt fair to 
decline the claim under storm cover.
Here, the first question isnt in dispute  Accredited agree that the weather conditions on the 
day of the damage were enough to amount to a storm. And from the photos provided, the 
damage to the structure is consistent with that which would be caused by strong winds. 
However whats disputed is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. So Ive 
considered whether Accredited has done enough to prove that the storm wasnt the main 
cause and acted fairly by applying the exclusion.
Accredited sent an expert to inspect the damaged structure. While their initial report isnt 
very detailed it does show a number of images of the structure after its collapse. And from 
these it can be seen that the structure has collapsed completely while the wooden fences 
that surround it remain intact.
Due to the lack of detail contained in the report, Accredited referred it back to one of its 
experts for a second opinion, including photos of the structure before it collapsed for 
reference. The second expert confirmed that due to the fact the structure was 60 years old 
and the visible rotting of the timber, the primary cause of the damage was wear and tear and 
the storm highlighted the issue. 
Based on the evidence available, and the opinion of two experts, I think Accredited has 
acted fairly by declining the claim. The experts have said that the structure would usually 
have a life span of 15 years but has stood for 60 years. And showed signs of rotting timber. 
So I think Accredited has made a fair decision when declining the claim.
While I appreciate Mr G doesnt agree that the structure was suffering any issue prior to the 
storm, hes not provided any expert evidence to dispute the findings of Accrediteds experts. 
In fact, in the photos hes provided from before the storm, the structure appears in a poor 
condition. So his account isnt enough to persuade me that Accredited has acted unfairly.
However I agree with our investigator that Accredited took a long time to review the claim 
and provide Mr G with an answer. The claim was made in February and it wasnt until June 
that it confirmed it was declining it. This meant Mr G had to chase up the position and it 
delayed resolving the matter for his tenants, which would have been inconvenient. And Ive 
not seen anything to explain why the matter took so long for Accredited to decide on. For 
these reasons, I agree with our investigator that Accredited should pay Mr G £100 
compensation to apologise for the delay and poor service. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I direct Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to pay Mr G £100 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman