DRN-3402968
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Creation Financial Services Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved 
her credit card application and later increased the credit limit.
 
What happened
In May 2015 Mrs P applied for a credit card with Creation. Mrs Ps application said she was 
a homeowner and employed. Creation carried out a credit search and found Mrs P had 
some credit cards and loans. Creation says it took the costs of servicing Mrs Ps unsecured 
credit as well as regular outgoings into account when assessing the application. Creation 
says the application was approved in line with its lending criteria and Mrs P was sent a credit 
card with a limit of £5,000. 
Mrs Ps credit limit was increased in stages between 2017 and 2018 reaching £7,500. 
Creation has told us each time the credit limit was increased it looked at Mrs Ms account 
history and credit file and applied its lending criteria. 
Last year Mrs P complained that Creation had lent irresponsibly. Creation sent Mrs P a final 
response but didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. Mrs P referred her complaint to this 
service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought Creation had dealt with Mrs Ps 
complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mrs P asked to appeal and said her 
account balance was near the limit each time it was increased and that they were 
unaffordable. As Mrs P asked to appeal her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Creation had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mrs P could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement;
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
When Mrs P applied she gave an income figure of in excess of £50,000. I can see Creation 
completed a credit search and found no adverse information that would indicate Mrs P was 
struggling. The credit search gave details of Mrs Ps outstanding credit and the monthly 
costs for making payments were used by Creation during the application process. In 
addition, Creation has provided information that shows in also took other outgoings and Mrs 
Ps disposable income into account. 
Ive seen Creations risk data and Im satisfied Mrs Ps application was reasonably approved 
following proportionate checks. I havent found Creation lent irresponsibly when it approved 
the credit card. 
The credit limit increases were also subject to assessment by Creation. Weve been given 
further risk information that shows the process followed by Creation each time the credit limit 
increased. I can see Creation looked at Mrs Ps credit file each time and took the monthly 
costs into account. Creation also looked at how Mrs P had managed her credit card and 
says she had no missed payments. 
In response to the investigator Mrs P said her account balance was generally close to the 
credit limit. Whilst I can see that is the case, Im satisfied Creation did factor that in when 
deciding to increase the credit limit. Im not persuaded that the balance of Mrs Ps credit card 
meant it was unreasonable for Creation to increase the credit limit. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs P but Im satisfied Creation did complete proportionate 
checks when assessing her credit card application and later increasing the credit limit. I 
havent found that Creation lent irresponsibly in this case. As Im satisfied Creation dealt with 
Mrs Ps complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
Mrs P has recently told us her account was sold by Creation to another business. We cant 
consider a complaint unless the business involved has had a chance to resolve the matter 
first. If Mrs P remains unhappy with the way Creation handles her concerns she has the 
option of referring the matter to us. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman