DRN-3812359
The complaint
Mr A complains that TSB Bank plc put a marker against his name on a fraud prevention 
database in connection with a mortgage application. 
What happened
Mr A made a mortgage application to TSB. TSB declined the application and, unknown to 
Mr A, also recorded it on a fraud prevention database. Mr A discovered the marker a few 
years later when he made another application to a different bank.
Mr A carried out a subject access request with CIFAS, the fraud database. He found that 
TSB had recorded an entry for application fraud, with the reason false documentation. He 
found a similar entry on the National Hunter database.
Mr A complained to TSB, and then brought his complaint to us. He said that he noted that on 
both the CIFAS and National Hunter entries, TSB had recorded that he said he worked for a 
company Ill call S Ltd. That company was recorded on Companies House as having been 
dissolved in 2013, three years before the mortgage application. Mr A said that was in fact 
incorrect  he did not work for a limited company at all. He worked for a sole trader using the 
same name (without the Ltd suffix)  so his employer was not S Ltd, but Mr X trading as S 
(for reasons of anonymisation, I have used initials only in this decision). Mr X had dissolved 
the company but continued the business as a sole trader. Mr A said that the income 
information he had included with his application was correct and genuine.
TSB asked Mr A to provide evidence from HMRC setting out his reported employment and 
tax history from the time of the complaint. Mr A said he wasnt willing to do that. He said TSB 
should have made these enquiries at the time of his mortgage application and because it 
didnt do so, it couldnt show that the standard for making a report to the databases was met 
and he hadnt been treated fairly. As a result, he said, the markers should be removed and 
TSB should compensate him for the losses they had caused.
However, when he brought the complaint to us, Mr A did obtain an employment history letter 
from HMRC. Once our investigator gave TSB a copy of the letter, it agreed to remove the 
marker.
Mr A said that the marker should never have been applied in the first place. And it had had a 
significant impact on him  it had led to him being refused credit with other lenders, including 
mortgages. Hed lost out on the chance of buying a family home and investment property. 
And the presence of the marker has impacted his ability to work in his chosen profession.
Our investigator thought that TSB had acted reasonably in putting the marker on based on 
what it knew at the time, and that it was fair it had removed it later. She didnt think TSB 
needed to take any further action.
Mr A wasnt happy with that. He didnt think the marker should have been put on in the first 
place, and wanted TSB to compensate him for the losses he had suffered. So the case 
came to me for a decision to be made.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
When a mortgage application is made, a lender will consider the application and 
supporting evidence provided, as well as carry out its own checks of what it is told, to 
help it decide whether to lend. Thats what TSB did here.
In certain circumstances, lenders can record the details of applications on fraud 
prevention databases. The databases perform an important function in allowing 
information sharing and fraud prevention across the financial services industry. But 
the consequences for an individual of having a marker against their name can be 
serious  and so an entry should only be made where its justified. CIFASs guidance 
to its members is that they should only make a record where theres clear relevant 
and rigorous evidence to justify a reasonable belief that fraud has been committed or 
attempted such that a report to the police or authorities could be made (though one 
does not need to be made).
In this case, TSB looked at the evidence Mr A supplied in support of his mortgage 
application. Its concerns were mainly about his income, and the evidence he 
provided. TSB was unable to verify his income using its standard underwriting 
checks. And when it tried to find the employer stated on the payslip, it only found S 
Ltd, which had been dissolved in 2013, three years before the application.
TSB therefore decided that the standard was met, and it recorded an entry about Mr 
A on the CIFAS database. It didnt carry out any further investigation, or ask Mr A 
about the potential discrepancies it had found.
Im not persuaded that this was fair. CIFAS has issued guidance to its members that 
a failure to verify income is not of itself enough to justify a marker  it should be a 
trigger for further investigation, not a trigger for a marker. Thats because there can 
be innocent explanations other than fraud for a failure to verify. And while this 
specific guidance was given in 2018  after the marker was applied in this case  it 
was a restatement of existing principles not new guidance.
The confusion about Mr As employer was understandable. I havent given the full 
name to preserve anonymity. But the S in what I have referred to as S Ltd and what 
I have referred to as Mr X trading as S is identical  other than the inclusion of Ltd 
in S Ltd. So when TSB saw that Mr As payslips said his employer was S, and tried to 
verify that such an employer existed, it found S Ltd on Companies House and noted 
it was dissolved some years earlier. It wouldnt find Mr X trading as S in this way, as 
theres no equivalent register for sole traders.
So it is understandable that when TSB looked for Mr As employer, and found S Ltd, 
it was concerned that he appeared to have provided payslips issued by a defunct 
company. But this was a misunderstanding, though TSB didnt realise this at the 
time.
And when it also couldnt verify Mr As income, that led it to conclude there was 
sufficient evidence of fraud.
But Im not persuaded there was sufficient evidence of fraud to justify the marker. Ive 
said there can be innocent explanations for a failure to verify income; these include 
that the income has started only recently. And Ive said that the concerns about the 
source of Mr As income were based on a misunderstanding.Had TSB asked Mr A for further information and evidence, at the time he made his 
application, to support what hed said its likely the misunderstanding about his 
employer would have come to light and that an explanation of the failure to verify 
would have been given.
When Mr A complained, TSB asked him for further evidence. Mr A gave us that 
evidence, we gave it to TSB and TSB agreed to take the marker off. Had it asked Mr 
A those questions at the time, I think its more likely than not that the marker would 
never have been applied.
And I think that, acting fairly and reasonably, TSB ought to have made those further 
enquiries before deciding to add the marker.
Im pleased to note that TSB has now removed the marker. But Im not persuaded 
adding one was justified at the time. So in addition to removing the marker, I think its 
fair and reasonable that TSB compensates Mr A for it having been put on.
Mr A said hes been refused credit with other lenders. And that has caused him loss. 
However, I dont think I can fairly compensate him for this. Even without the marker, 
his applications may have been refused  loans and especially mortgages can be 
refused for many reasons. And any possible lost profit from investment properties is 
speculative and not something I can quantify even if I was persuaded that but for the 
marker he would have been given the mortgages.
Mr A also says that the marker has prevented him working in his chosen profession. 
But again Im not persuaded he has been caused financial loss. This is not a situation 
where he was already working in this field and because of the marker lost his job. 
Rather, some years later, he decided on a career change but hasnt yet been able to 
take up work because of the marker. So while hes not been able to carry out the 
work of his choice, he hasnt lost an existing job because of the marker.
However, I do think TSB should compensate him for the upset and inconvenience 
discovering the marker has caused  including the time spent getting it removed, the 
disappointment at the delay in taking up his chosen career and the stress and upset 
that resulted. I think £350 is fair compensation in all the circumstances.
The responses to my provisional decision
TSB accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr A responded to say:
TSB acted in breach of the mortgage regulations. And it didnt comply with the 
evidential requirements before recording a fraud marker.
The marker was on his record for six years. Thats had a significant impact on him. 
Lenders he applied to will have taken the marker at face value, and will have 
assumed he was involved in fraud. 
Mr A said his losses could be quantified:
oHis credit score is excellent, and he has never missed a payment on any 
debt.
oAnother bank refused him an account because of the marker  it told him that at the time.
oHe believes that but for the misunderstanding, TSB would have approved his 
mortgage application as he had a good deposit and an excellent credit score. 
Other lenders refused him a mortgage too  but after TSB had put the marker 
on. He has lost out on the chance to buy the property he wanted, which has 
increased in value considerably since.
oHe has also lost the opportunity to buy other property, since several buy to let 
mortgage applications have also been declined.
oDespite never having a problem with applications for credit cards before 
2016, he has been turned down several times since. 
oIn order to try and find out why his applications were being declined, he 
subscribed to credit reference agencies for two years, as well as paying 
subject access fees to the fraud databases.
Mr A also said that the existence of the marker had caused him years of stress and 
worry. Compensation of £350 is too low and makes a mockery of the need to treat 
customers fairly. Mr A thought £1,500 would be a fairer amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to note that TSB accepted my provisional decision that the marker should never 
have been recorded against Mr A. I therefore see no reason to change my mind about 
upholding this complaint. Though I make clear I havent made a finding that TSB has 
breached the mortgage regulations  this case is not about that, its about whether it was fair 
for it to conclude that the databases evidential threshold had been met. The recording of 
fraud markers is not something covered in the regulators mortgage rules, other than as part 
of the general requirement to treat customers fairly.
Putting things right
That leaves the question of how to put things right. And Ive taken into account everything 
Mr A has said about this, and thought about it very carefully.
I do understand his frustration, and I understand why he believes that the presence of the 
marker is the cause of the problems he described.
However, I dont think I can safely find that but for the marker Mr A would have been granted 
the mortgages hes described. There are many factors to consider in granting a mortgage. 
And while Mr A had a sizeable deposit and a good credit score, that doesnt of itself mean 
any mortgage application would have been granted. There would also need to have been a 
valuation of the property carried out  a lender will not lend until satisfied the property is 
good security  and an assessment of Mr As personal circumstances and affordability 
carried out. And even if TSB, or another lender, had offered Mr A a mortgage that still 
doesnt mean that the property purchase would inevitably have gone through  there are lots 
of other things that can affect a property sale.
The same is true of the buy to let mortgages Mr A referred to as well.Im afraid that its not possible for me to say that its more likely that not that, but for the 
marker, Mr A would have been granted the mortgages he applied for and would have gone 
on to buy the properties. And therefore I cant safely find that Mr A has been caused 
quantifiable financial loss.
Mr A has also referred to credit card applications  and the same is true there. Applications 
can be refused for many reasons. And in any case Im not persuaded that a refusal of an 
application to be allowed to borrow money on a credit card amounts to financial loss.
But I do think its fair and reasonable that TSB pay Mr A compensation for the upset and 
distress caused. Ive taken into account what he has said about that, and Ive also taken into 
account the sorts of awards the Financial Ombudsman Service has made in similar cases. I 
remain of the view that £350 represents fair compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB 
Bank plc to:
Remove any record of this mortgage application from fraud databases; and
Pay Mr A £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman