DRN-4003689
The complaint
Mr B complains about how NewDay Ltd (NewDay) responded when he asked it to help him 
claim a refund for goods he ordered.
What happened
Mr B used finance provided by NewDay Ltd to buy a phone from a third party retailer, a 
company that I will call A. Mr B tells us that he never received the phone. Rather the 
courier who delivered the package which should have contained the phone left the package 
halfway in and halfway out of his letterbox. Then Mr Bs relative opened the package only to 
find it did not contain the phone. Mr Bs initial position was either:
The phone was never in the package in the first place, 
or it was never delivered to his address by the courier, 
or the package did contain the phone, but it was removed from the package by 
persons unknown who then put the package back into his letterbox where his relative 
found it.
Either way Mr B considers this to be a breach of contract. He also considers he is therefore 
entitled to a full refund. Due to the type of credit Mr B used to purchase the phone he 
indicates that he is entitled to bring a like claim for breach of contract against NewDay as he 
could against A.
Mr B complained to NewDay.
NewDay declined to uphold the part of Mr Bs complaint about breach of contract, on the 
basis that it did not accept there had been any breach of contract. Rather, its stance is that 
the courier delivered the package containing the phone to Mr Bs address. Therefore, there 
were no grounds for it to uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint. But it also said it had at first 
incorrectly told Mr B he could try to get his money back via a process known as chargeback. 
However, Mr B did not have a right to a chargeback. It offered Mr B £50 compensation for 
this mistake, which Mr B accepted to settle that part of his complaint.
Dissatisfied Mr B complained to our service.
One of our investigators investigated Mr Bs complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mr Bs complaint be upheld.
NewDay accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr B did not. Ive summarised Mr Bs 
reasons for rejecting our investigators recommendation. NewDay responded to Mr Bs 
objections, and Ive summarised its responses too below:
Mr B indicated:
That the package might originally have contained the phone but because the 
package had been left where and how it was, an unknown third party could have 
tampered with the package removed the phone from it and left the remainder in the 
letterbox. Any number of people had access to the letterbox as it serves more than 
one address.
Alternatively, the courier provided a photo of the package in Mr Bs letterbox. Mr B 
does not believe this shows the package was actually delivered to his address. What 
is more likely is that it was delivered to another address, as many of the neighbours 
letterboxes look the same as his. And then an unknown third party removed the 
phone from the package. After this the package without the phone was placed in his 
letterbox.
The relative who opened the package would not have noticed if the package had 
been tampered with prior to opening it as he has a disability, and that disability 
means would not have noticed if the package had been opened. Moreover, the photo 
taken by the courier only shows one side of the package. Therefore, it is not possible 
to discount that the package was tampered with before his relative opened it.
The box for the phone was missing a seal strip and the manufacturer has told him its 
phones are not dispatched like this.
A provided poor customer service. It did not investigate his complaint properly it was 
merely interested in making him pay for a phone he does not have.
A has a reputation of doing this type of thing regularly and you as a regulatory body 
are allowing them to get away with it.
NewDay responded:
On balance if a third party did tamper with the parcel, they were far more likely to 
have taken the whole thing. Rather than open the package, remove the phone, 
repackage everything and put it back into the letterbox.
The photo as far as it is aware shows Mr Bs front door that precludes the possibility 
that the courier left the package at a neighbouring address.
NewDay has already sent detailed information about As quality assurance and 
dispatch procedures which include packaging.
Mr B asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im only dealing with the part of Mr Bs complaint about breach of contract in this decision as 
the part of his complaint about chargeback was settled between the parties before Mr B 
complained to us.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Here 
relevant law includes but is not limited to section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
Due to the type of finance Mr B used to purchase the phone the law says if he has a claim 
for breach of contract against A he has a like claim against NewDay. Further, I agree with Mr 
B when he says in general the law also provides that if the goods are not delivered into his physical possession and within the timescale the law prescribes then this would be a breach 
of contract. And further I would expect NewDay to take responsibility for such a breach of 
contract. It seems the parties do not dispute any of this.
That said, Mr B and NewDay disagree about almost every other key aspect of this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr Bs stance is that he should not have to pay for the phone as he never received it. I can 
well understand why Mr B is upset about this situation given his stance. Mr B has told us 
about a number of alternative possibilities which he tells us demonstrate that he never 
received the phone. Whereas NewDays has put forward only one possibility that is the 
phone was delivered to Mr Bs home address in line with the contract.
Ive thought about the possibility that the phone was just never in the package when 
despatched. That is a possible scenario and would explain why when Mr Bs relative opened 
the package, according to him, he did not find the phone inside. NewDay has told us about 
As despatch processes including the steps it takes to check for discrepancies, such as the 
parcel not containing the item which has been ordered and paid for or packaging being 
incorrect. Given that these processes seem to apply to all packages I dont think it is likely 
that on this individual occasion A would have diverted from this routine. I therefore find it 
likely that the phone was in the package when despatched.
However, once despatched the package with the phone was alone with the courier. Its 
possible that the courier could have removed the phone from the package on the way to Mr 
Bs home. To get to the phone the courier would have had to tamper with the package to 
remove the phone. But the picture the courier took of the phone on delivery shows the 
package tightly packaged with no signs of tampering. I take on board that we can only see 
one side of the package in the photo. But if the other side of the package was loose I think in 
the circumstances there would have been some sign of this in the photo.  On balance 
therefore I find it unlikely that the courier removed the phone from its packaging before 
delivering the package.
Mr B contends that package might not have been delivered to his address at all, as he says 
the photo the courier took does not demonstrate conclusively that the courier delivered the 
package to his door. That said, if I were to accept this scenario I would have to find that the 
package was misdelivered to a third party address. An unknown person then removed the 
phone from the packaging and the resealed it and delivered the parcel to Mr Bs address 
with the possibility of getting caught in the act. I dont find this a likely scenario.
Ideally the courier would have delivered the package right into Mr Bs hands. But it seems 
the agreement between the parties was that the courier could leave the package in Mr Ls 
letterbox which Im satisfied it did based on the information Ive got. I dont think I can fairly 
hold NewDay responsible if other people had access to Mr Bs letterbox. And as far as I can 
see although Mr B had hoped the package would go to another drop off point should it not 
be delivered to him in person that was not the agreement. So I dont find that the courier did 
anything wrong by leaving the package in my Mr Bs letterbox.
Mr B cannot tell us whether the package looked tampered with prior to his relative opening it. 
That is because Mr B was not there when the package was opened. And his relative is 
unable to tell us whether the package was opened before he opened it. But based on the 
information I have on the file the package was only opened in one place. I cant completely 
rule out that a third party opened the package left it open and then Mr Bs relative opened 
the package in the same place afterwards. But in the circumstances I think it more likely than 
not that if more than one person opened the package theyd be more physical signs of this. 
In any event, I dont find it likely that a third party who took the phone from the letterbox would have taken the time to remove the phone and leave the rest of the packaging. Rather, 
I find it more likely that a third party would have taken the entire package.
It appears that the phone is being used. But weve no information to say who is using it. Only 
the manufacturer could tell us this and we have no power to compel it to do this and this is 
personal data it would likely refuse to give to us if we asked. The fact that the phone is being 
used however throws no further light on the question of whether there has been a breach of 
contract which NewDay ought to take responsibility for putting right.
As customer service may have been poor. But A is not a party to this complaint, and I cant 
therefore look at this part of Mr Bs complaint. Mr B has sent us a few negative reviews from 
customers of A. This does not demonstrate though that there is a systemic issue at A where 
it is charging its customers for phones it does not deliver. And this service is not a regulator.
For all of these reasons, it follows I have no proper basis on balance for saying that the 
contract has been breached. It also follows that I dont find it is fair and reasonable to ask 
NewDay to take any further action as I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman