DRN-3910383
The complaint
Mr G complains Paysafe Financial Services Limited closed his account and will not give him 
access to the funds in his account. Mr G would like access to his funds. He says he 
shouldnt have been allowed to open the account.
What happened
The facts which led to Mr G bringing his complaint to our service are well known to both 
parties, so I am not repeating them in full here.
In summary, Mr G opened an account with Neteller operated by Paysafe. Mr G then moved 
back to his home country. Paysafe dont operate in Mr Gs home country, so he wasnt able 
to access his money. Mr G is unhappy Paysafe allowed him to open an account in the first 
place.
Our investigator concluded Paysafe were entitled to decide what countries they operated in 
and they werent to know at the time Mr G opened the account that he would return to his 
home country.
Mr G disagreed with the outcome and asked for a final decision, so his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Paysafe must comply with its legal and regulatory obligations when it provides accounts to 
its customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account is 
opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know its customer, verify 
their sources of income, as well as detect and prevent financial crime.
Paysafe will review accounts to comply with its responsibilities. Its common for firms to 
restrict access to an account whilst it carries out the reviews. I can see that Paysafe 
complied with its terms and conditions when it reviewed and subsequently closed the 
account.
Mr G is unhappy that he hasnt received the funds in his account. As the investigator 
mentioned, Paysafe have legal and regulatory obligations they must comply with. They also 
are entitled to decide what countries they do business with. Unfortunately, Mr G is now living 
in a country Paysafe doesnt operate in. It has a right to make these decisions and Ive seen 
evidence to support their views, so I dont think they have done anything wrong by not 
allowing Mr G to use the account.
Mr G thinks they never should have allowed him to open an account as the ID he provided 
was from a country they dont operate in. I appreciate what Mr G is saying, he wouldnt have 
had all these problems if he had been refused the account in the first place. However, Mr G 
wasnt living in his home country when he opened the account with Paysafe so I dont think 
they acted unfairly in providing him an account in the first place.
I understand Mr Gs main concern is accessing the funds that remain in the account. 
Paysafe have said they dont operate in the country Mr G now resides in. In addition, they do 
not offer withdrawals in the country Mr G originally opened the account in. Paysafe are 
entitled to make these commercial decisions, so I dont think they have done anything wrong 
here. 
However, I appreciate this leaves Mr G stuck not being able to access the funds in his 
account. And he is trying to find a suitable account to pay the funds into. However, the 
process of where the funds are returned to is not really for our service to decide. Paysafe 
needs to ensure they are complying with their obligations, and Im satisfied that is what they 
are doing here.
I understand the investigator has asked Paysafe if they are willing to release the funds to a 
European Bank account Mr G has. Paysafe has agreed and has paid the balance into his 
European account. Mr G has mentioned he is unhappy with the balance paid in  he is 
disputing if this is the correct amount and whether the exchange rate used is correct. These 
issues arent part of this original complaint and if Mr G is unhappy, he needs to raise this 
new complaint with Paysafe.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman