DRN-3899816
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services 
(Alphera). Mr Y believes the car was mis sold to him.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr Y acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with Alphera. The 
car was around three years old and had travelled about 61,534 miles when it was supplied to 
him. The cash price of the car was £9,725 which included an advanced payment of £200. 
The total amount financed on this agreement was £9,525 payable over 49 months.
Mr Y said that the car suffered an oil leak which was repaired in May 2022, but the leak has 
returned. Mr Y complained to Alphera as he believed the dealership didnt carry out the 300-
point pre-purchase checks on the car which they said was done prior to him being supplied 
it. Mr Y believe the issues with the car are a result of the checks not being done.
On 3 August 2022, Alphera provided their final response to Mr Ys complaint which they 
didnt uphold. Alphera said theyd received evidence that the pre purchase checks were 
carried out. They also advised that Mr Y would have to provide evidence that the oil leak was 
present at the point of supply.
Unhappy with their decision, Mr Y brought his complaint to our service for investigation. In 
October 2022 Mr Y told us that he sold his car due to the ongoing issues with it and settled 
his finance agreement with Alphera.
Having considered all the information, our investigator recommended that Mr Ys complaint 
should not be upheld. Our investigator concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied and was persuaded that the pre-purchase checks had been carried 
out. 
Mr Y responded to say that he disagreed with our investigators view, and asked that his 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. Alphera is also the supplier of the goods under 
this agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
Here, Mr Y acquired a used car that had travelled 61,534 miles. With this in mind, I think its 
fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be less than that of a 
brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be signs of wear and tear due to its 
usage, or that it may require maintenance sooner than if it was newer and less travelled.
From the information provided Im persuaded that there was a fault with the car. This is 
apparent from the repair invoice dated 18 May 2022 which provided details of an oil leak. 
Having considered the car had a fault, Ive considered whether it was of satisfactory quality 
at the time of supply. 
Satisfactory quality
The MOT carried out on Mr Ys car on 3 March 2022 noted the mileage as 73,738 miles. 
This means at that point Mr Y had travelled around 12,204 miles over the past nine months 
since the car was supplied to him. 
Although the MOT was passed, the advisories included an oil leak, which it noted as not 
being excessive. From the information provided, this was the first indication of an oil leak 
since Mr Y had been supplied the car. 
As the MOT was recorded as passed, Im satisfied the car was roadworthy at that point. Ive 
not seen any evidence in the form of a specialist report suggesting the issue was present or 
developing previously, for example within weeks of Mr Y acquiring the car. Im not 
persuaded the oil leak was present or developing when it was supplied to Mr Y. So, from the 
information provided, Im satisfied that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr Y. 
Pre-purchase checks
Ive seen from an email in August 2021, that Mr Y requested a copy of the 300-point pre 
purchase checks that was completed on the car. In the same month the dealership 
confirmed to Mr Y that the 300-point pre purchase checks were carried out and provided a 
document of repairs that were completed at the time of the checks.
I recognise however, that throughout their contact with Mr Y the dealership has been unable 
to provide definitive evidence of the pre purchase checks. For example, in the form of a copy 
of the checklist that was completed at the time. I acknowledge Mr Y strength of feeling that 
the oil leak was a result of the pre purchase checks not being completed properly, however, from the evidence provided, Im persuaded the checks were completed on the car. The 
emails between the dealership and Mr Y, and the copy of the pre delivery inspection and 
service checks persuades me that the checks were carried out, and so Im not persuaded 
the car was mis sold to Mr Y.
Although Ive not seen a copy of the 300-point pre purchase checks that the dealership say 
were completed, its worth noting that I havent seen any definitive evidence that they werent 
completed either. I dont think its fair to conclude that not having this evidence means they 
werent carried out.
Having said that, as mention earlier, Im not persuaded the oil leak had anything to do with 
the pre-purchase checks. In the absence of a specialist report on the cause of the oil leak, 
due to the mileage Mr Y travelled in the car prior to the leak becoming apparent as an 
advisory during an MOT, I think its likely to be as a result of in service wear and tear and not 
related to an inherent problem. 
In addition, I recognise that the MOT that was carried out on the car, two months prior to Mr 
Y acquiring it, passed with no advisories. And this further persuades me that the car was 
supplied to Mr Y in a condition that meant it was roadworthy and of satisfactory quality.
As Ive concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied, and Im 
persuaded the pre purchase checks were carried out, I dont require Alphera to take any 
action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint against BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman