DRN-2522015
The complaint
 Mr G complains about National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to hold him responsible for 
transactions he says he didnt authorise.  
What happened
 In October 2019, Mr G went on holiday to Spain with a small group of friends. One evening, 
Mr G went to a bar where he says he was drugged and had over £10,000 stolen from his 
account.
Mr G says he authorised an ATM withdrawal for £100 on the same evening. Following that, 
he recalls that he and his friends went for a meal before going to the bar. Mr G says when he 
got to the bar, one of his friends purchased the first round of drinks, and Mr G cant 
remember much more after that event. Mr G says he thinks he was drugged, and money 
stolen from his account.
The transactions relevant to the dispute are as follows. 
Date Time Amount Method  Disputed?
25 October 
20199.11pm €100.00 ATM withdrawal  No
26 October 
201912.21am €407.53 Chip and PIN  Yes
26 October 
201901.19am £25,000.00 Online transfer from 
Mr Gs saving 
account to Mr Gs 
current account Yes 
26 October 
201901.45am €3,815.17 Chip and PIN  Yes
26 October 
201902.15am €6,295.03 Chip and PIN  Yes
Mr G disputes all the transactions made on 26 October 2019, including the online transfer of 
£25,000 from his personal savings account to his personal current account. 
Mr G told our service that his friends couldnt find him while they were in the bar  they 
asked the bar staff where Mr G was, and staff members told them Mr G had left. His friends 
spent time looking for Mr G  leaving the bar and coming back. They also sent Mr G several 
text messages starting from around 2am which Ive seen evidence of. One of the text 
messages from Mr Gs friend threatened to call the police  at this point, Mr Gs friend 
received a text back from Mr Gs phone confirming he would be 3 mins, and then another 
stating Maybe 5. Mr Gs friends found these messages from Mr Gs phone odd and went 
back to the bar. They saw Mr G being carried out by four employees and was told Mr G had 
fallen asleep inside  despite them being told previously he had left the bar.
Mr Gs friends confirmed at this point Mr G couldnt really talk, stand or walk properly. They 
took him back to the hotel room where he slept.
When Mr G woke up, he noticed his phone was badly damaged and his wallet had been 
tampered with  namely his cards had been stuffed into a pocket. Mr G has confirmed the 
NatWest debit card was the only bank card he had on him at the time.
Mr G used his friends phone to call NatWest. The advisor from NatWest explained the 
£25,000 transfer and the three card payments. Mr G said he hadnt made any of the 
transactions and asked to send the money back into his savings. The NatWest advisor 
asked Mr G what last payment he made, and Mr G confirmed he withdrew money from the 
cash machine. Mr G went on to explain he doesnt use his card abroad because hes unsure 
of the exchange rate. The advisor explained the transactions and that they were made using 
chip and PIN. Mr G said it wasnt him and he thought people had abducted him and tried to 
rob him. Mr G asked the advisor to get the money back and the advisor explained he could 
raise them as a fraud investigation. 
While in Spain, Mr G tried to seek help from the Spanish police but wasnt successful due to 
the language barrier. He spoke to his hotel and they advised the tourist police would be 
available the next morning at 9am, however Mr G was being picked up at around 4am the 
next morning for his flight home.
On Mr Gs return home, he contacted the British police, British Embassy and British 
Consulate. He also went to his GP who confirmed Mr G had bruises and scratches, however 
they refused to carry out a drug test as Mr G had asked.
NatWest investigated Mr Gs fraud claim and declined it. They said they were holding Mr G 
liable for the transactions as there wasnt a clear point of compromise for his PIN. While 
NatWest recognised Mr G had entered his PIN in the ATM machine earlier on in the evening, 
they disregarded this due to the length of time between the last genuine and the first 
disputed transaction. They also confirmed the online transfer from Mr Gs savings account 
would have required either a finger print, passcode or face ID. NatWest also confirmed that 
one of the transactions was blocked by the fraud prevention system and they sent a text 
message to Mr Gs phone  however they received a response to confirm the transactions 
were genuine so allowed them to continue.
Mr G wasnt happy with NatWests answer so brought his complaint to our service.
The investigator initially tried to mediate things and asked NatWest to re-consider their 
decision. She confirmed that reviews of the bar showed that Mr Gs version of events were 
likely, and the transfers and spending were unusual for Mr G. NatWest confirmed their 
decision remained unchanged.
The investigator went on to give her answer on the complaint. She said that she was 
convinced the payments were authenticated due to the PIN being used. And she thought it 
was more likely than not Mr G authorised the payments because she couldnt find a 
reasonable explanation as to how Mr Gs PIN was compromised. So, she didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr G remained unhappy and therefore the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Earlier in January 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it I said;The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). PSR 2017 say a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer 
has given consent to the execution of the payment transaction. If a payment service user 
(customer) denied having authorised an executed payment  the payment service provider 
(in this case NatWest) must prove the payment transaction was authenticated. And if it is 
deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised. 
NatWest has provided evidence to show that Mr Gs genuine card was used for the disputed 
transactions. This is known by the chip that sits within the card. The transactions were 
authenticated by the correct PIN being entered. So, Im satisfied from NatWests technical 
evidence that Mr Gs genuine card was physically present when the disputed transaction 
was made and that the withdrawal in question was authenticated by Mr Gs correct PIN 
being entered. 
This is a finely balanced case and I wont be able to say what happened for certain  Ill 
need to make my findings based on what I think to have most likely happened in the 
circumstances. In order to uphold it, I must be persuaded that, on balance, it is more likely 
than not that Mr G didnt authorise the transactions in question.
Mr G has confirmed the ATM withdrawal was made and authorised by himself  and 
therefore he states this is the last time he entered his PIN. I appreciate why NatWest think 
the time lapsed between this transaction and the next transaction (which Mr G disputes) 
makes it unlikely that this was the point of compromise.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Gs version of events. He says the whole night isnt entirely 
clear, but he remembers going for a late meal with his friends after the ATM withdrawal. 
While theres no evidence of this meal on Mr Gs bank statements, this supports his account 
that he doesnt usually use his debit card abroad and prefers to use cash.
Mr G says when he entered the bar, his friend purchased the first round of drinks. I have no 
reason to disbelieve Mr G. I have then gone on to consider whether the further transactions 
were authorised by Mr G.
The first transaction is a chip and PIN payment for €407.53. Having considered the 
sequence of events, Im minded to believe that Mr G did authorise this payment. I say that 
because I see no other reasonable explanation as to how an unauthorised third party could 
have taken Mr Gs card and known his PIN to make this transaction. And Mr G himself 
agrees his memory of the nights events is limited, so this seems plausible. 
Considering the particular type of bar the activities took place in. I find it likely that Mr G 
authorised this payment to pay for a service where he ended up in a room alone with 
members of staff from the bar. Its also entirely possible they could have watched Mr G enter 
his PIN at this time.
The transaction which followed this, was almost one hour later and started with the transfer 
of £25,000 from Mr Gs savings account to his current account. Ive thought carefully about 
how the unauthorised party could have accessed Mr Gs online banking. If, as Mr G says, he 
was drugged the third party would have had access to Mr Gs phone, and his face or 
fingerprint to be able to access his online banking application  which is all the security they 
needed. The transactions which followed were then authenticated by chip and PIN  which I 
dont believe Mr G authorised and I think the point of compromise was Mr G making the first 
transaction.Ive researched the bar in question, and I see there are several similar reports of customers 
being drugged and money taken without authorisation. Ive also thought about Mr Gs usual 
spending habits and I think the pattern on his account during this evening is unusual.
NatWest sent a text message to Mr Gs phone after the payment of €3,815.17. They say 
their fraud prevention system picked this up but as they received a response from Mr G, they 
allowed the transactions to continue. However, Im not satisfied NatWest have enough 
evidence to show that it was Mr G himself who responded to the text message. And based 
on the circumstances of this complaint, Im minded to believe it wasnt Mr G who sent the 
response. Ive explained how I think the fraudsters had access to Mr Gs phone so its 
plausible, and I think most likely, they could have also replied to the text. It also seems 
strange for Mr G to have responded to this text to confirm the transaction and then later that 
day dispute it with NatWest.
I dont think NatWest did enough to protect Mr G here  I think a block of the account 
altogether would have been more reasonable, or at the very least a phone call. Either of 
these options would have resulted in Mr G needing to speak to somebody at NatWest and 
explain the transactions in more detail. I think this would have been appropriate given the 
amount of the transactions, the time they were taking place and the fact the activity was 
taking place in another country. I appreciate if it was Mr G making the transactions himself, 
this would have been inconvenient. But I think there is enough evidence to suggest that 
something was amiss and Id expect NatWest to ensure their customer was protected.
Im not persuaded, considering Mr Gs account history, that its in his nature to transfer such 
a large amount from his savings account into his current account. I find this even more likely 
knowing where the money in Mr Gs savings account came from  his late Grandmother. Its 
also extremely out of character for two large payments such as the ones in question to be 
made from Mr Gs account. And even more so for any transactions to be made while Mr G is 
abroad. I also think the evidence of text messages from Mr Gs friends, and the damage to 
his phone support Mr Gs version of events further. Mr G also took necessary steps when he 
returned to the UK to report this incident. I appreciate NatWest have relied on the fact Mr G 
didnt seek medical advice, or report things to the Police while in Spain. But Im satisfied 
from what Mr G has told us, that he did attempt to. And I think his actions on his return 
support this even further.
I accept this is not a clear-cut case and Nat West have rightly raised several points that 
could suggest Mr G authorised the transactions himself. However, having considered Mr Gs 
circumstances, and the circumstances of this complaint alone, Im satisfied that its more 
likely than not Mr G didnt authorise the transfer of £25,000 from his account, or the 
transactions of €3,815.17 and €6,295.03. And therefore, I think NatWest should reimburse 
Mr G for these two amounts.
I dont consider Nat West are entitled to make any deductions to the refunds for contributory 
negligence. Contributory negligence carries a high bar and I dont think Mr G is at fault for 
the circumstances of this complaint.
I also think a compensation amount of £200 is appropriate due to the trouble and upset this 
whole situation has caused Mr G. I say this because, although I appreciate a large part of 
the distress Mr G suffered was caused by the fraudsters, I think NatWest should have been 
more proactive when recognising the unusual activity on Mr Gs account and should have 
done more to prevent the transactions from going through. And therefore significantly 
reduced the impact on Mr G. 
 
So I thought Nat West should:Reimburse Mr G for the last two disputed transactions - €3,815.17 and €6,295.03 .
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they refund Mr G. They 
should calculate this from the date the money was taken to the date they refund.
HM Revenue & Customs requires National Westminster Bank Plc to withhold income 
tax from the above-mentioned interest. NatWest should give Mr G a certificate 
showing how much is taken off if Mr G asks for one.
Pay Mr G £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision and agreed with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. Both Nat West and 
Mr G have agreed with the reasons set out in my provisional decision and the reasons why I 
think Nat West should put things right.
Putting things right
 In summary, I think Mr G was responsible for the first transaction which took place and 
therefore I dont consider Nat West should reimburse Mr G for this amount. However, I think 
Nat West could have done more to protect Mr G based on the account activity which took 
place after this transaction. And because of that, Nat West should refund Mr G for the further 
transactions which took place. I also consider Nat West should pay Mr G £200 for the trouble 
and upset caused to him.
My final decision
 So, for the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Gs 
complaint in part.
To put things right, National Westminster Bank Plc should do the following: 
Reimburse Mr G for the last two disputed transactions - €3,815.17 and €6,295.03 .
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they refund Mr G. They 
should calculate this from the date the money was taken to the date they refund.
HM Revenue & Customs requires National Westminster Bank Plc to withhold income 
tax from the above-mentioned interest. NatWest should give Mr G a certificate 
showing how much is taken off if Mr G asks for one.
Pay Mr G £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021 .
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman