DRN-2313850
The complaint
Mr K complains about an online message on his Nationwide Building Society account.
 
What happened
Mr K says he noticed a message about account activity  when using online banking. He 
says he asked Nationwide for an explanation as he wasnt asking for an overdraft extension 
and his account, apart from a couple of days, wasnt overdrawn. Mr K would like the 
message removed and says the message is more appropriate for those that regularly use an 
overdraft facility.
Nationwide says the message appears on an overdraft screen and tells customers that an 
overdraft increase isnt possible. It says if Mr K can see the message anywhere else when 
using online banking, it would look into that, and says it hasnt made an error.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator explained what the message related to 
and thought it was in line with the account terms and conditions about an overdraft facility. 
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K doesnt accept that view and in summary says the main issue has not been addressed. 
He would like Nationwide to amend the message and says its not relevant to his 
circumstances. He also says Nationwide hasnt offered an explanation about it or its 
wording.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I realise 
Mr K will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about whats 
taken place.
Im satisfied that its up to Nationwide to decide how it runs its business and its not our role 
to tell it what information it includes in its online pages about these or any matters. We are 
not Nationwides regulator. So, it follows that I can order Nationwide to change the message 
content or remove it from Mr Ks online banking page.
I appreciate that Mr K says the message is not relevant and doesnt reflect his account 
usage. But Im satisfied Nationwide has explained what it means and why it is present on the 
overdraft online banking pages. I appreciate Mr K doesnt agree with that explanation and 
that of course is his choice. But that doesnt mean, for the reasons I have explained, I can 
fairly interfere in it.
I dont think Mr K has suffered any financial loss, distress or inconvenience as a result of 
what took place and that Nationwide has fairly said it will look into matters again if the 
message appears anywhere else.
Overall, I think its up to Nationwide to decide how it runs its business and that it has fairly 
explained why the message is present and what it means. It is of course up to Mr K to 
decide if he wishes to accept that explanation or if the issue causes him such concern that 
he would need to close his account. But Im satisfied this brings an end to what we, in trying 
to resolve this complaint informally, can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman