DRN-4147870
The complaint
Mr F complains that Ageas Retail Limited trading as RIAS provided unclear information 
about his policy premiums at renewal. 
What happened
Mr F had car insurance that is arranged through an intermediary  RIAS. The policy was due 
to renew on 22 June 2022. In May 2022 RIAS sent Mr F a letter to confirm the premium for 
the year would be £242.98 and it would be automatically taken from his account. 
On 16 June 2022 Mr F called the insurer of his policy to report a claim following an incident 
involving a third party. 
Shortly after the claim was reported, the £242.98 was taken from Mr Fs account to renew 
his policy. 
However before the new policy began, RIAS was notified of the claim and this altered the 
premium for the new policy year. On 21 July 2022 it sent a letter to Mr F to ask for an 
additional £88 to reflect the new premium following the claim, it gave Mr F the option to pay 
the amount or cancel his policy. A further letter was sent but no response was received, so 
RIAS cancelled Mr Fs policy and issued a partial refund of the premiums paid. 
Soon after this on 12 August 2022 Mr F called RIAS as he had received the letter about the 
extra premium. He found the policy was cancelled. RIAS reinstated the policy and took the 
additional payment from Mr F. 
However Mr F was unhappy with how the process was handled. He said he hadnt received 
the initial letter sent by RIAS about the additional premium. And when he phoned it, the 
information provided was unclear. He made a complaint but this wasnt upheld. So he 
brought it to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he thought RIAS had 
done enough to inform Mr F of the changes to his premium and it had provided clear 
information about why it was being charged. So he didnt think it had acted unfairly. 
Mr F didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A policy premium is calculated each year based on a number of different factors. One factor 
that will usually impact the premium charged is any claims that were made in the previous 
policy year. 
Here, Mr Fs policy year started on 22 June 2022. And a renewal notice was sent the month 
before this, which is usual practice. However in the time between the renewal notice being 
sent and the policy beginning, a claim was registered. Because of this, the premium had to 
be recalculated.
I can see that RIAS were only notified by the insurer of the new claim on 21 June 2022. This 
was after the renewal premium had already been taken from Mr Fs account, which meant it 
had to write to Mr F to inform him that an additional premium was due after he had already 
paid for his renewal. I appreciate this would have caused some confusion. 
However RIAS has provided evidence to show that it sent letters to Mr F on 21 July 2022 
and 28 July 2022. These informed him of the change to his premium and gave him the 
option to either cancel the policy or pay the additional premium. As it didnt receive a 
response to these letters it cancelled his policy on 12 August. And considering the proximity 
of the claim to the new policy year, and as it gave him notice, I dont consider this to be 
unreasonable. 
Mr F has said that he didnt receive the first letter, so I understand why he was frustrated to 
find out his policy had been cancelled. In this complaint I can only look at the actions RIAS is 
responsible for. And its shown that the letters were sent to the correct address. So while I 
appreciate there may have been issues with the post after this stage, I cant hold RIAS 
responsible for this. And Im satisfied that it did enough to ensure Mr F was properly notified 
of the change and his options. 
Mr F has also said he was given unclear information and provided with poor service when he 
called RIAS to ask about the additional premium it had requested. Ive listened to the calls 
between Mr F and RIAS and while I agree it initially took longer to deal with the request than 
I would have expected, I think it eventually explained the situation to Mr F and managed to 
resolve the problem in a reasonable time frame. This meant Mr Fs policy was reinstated 
promptly which limited the impact the matter had on him. 
For these reasons, I think RIAS acted fairly and reasonably in how it handled its request for 
additional premiums. And while there may have been some confusion when Mr F called in, 
this was resolved quickly. I therefore wont ask RIAS to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman