DRN-4175656
Complaint
Mr S has complained about personal loans Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (trading as Novuna 
Personal Finance) provided to him. He says that the loans were unaffordable and so 
shouldnt have been provided to him.
As the loans were provided to Mr S whilst Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc was known as 
Hitachi, I will refer to it as Hitachi during the course of this decision. 
Background
Hitachi initially provided Mr S with a first loan for £3,000.00 in April 2018. This loan had a 
term of 24 months and the total amount to be repaid of £3,365.62, including interest, fees 
and charges of £365.52, was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £140.23. 
Hitachi then provided Mr S with a second loan also for £3,000.00 in December 2018. This 
loan had a term of 36 months and the total amount to be repaid of £4,177.08, including 
interest, fees and charges of £1,177.08, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of 
£116.03.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr S complaint and he thought Hitachi didnt do anything 
wrong when providing loan 1. But he also that Hitachi ought to have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided Mr S with loan 2. So he partially upheld the complaint. 
Mr S didnt disagree with our adjudicators assessment. But Hitachi disagreed with the 
outcome on loan 2. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. As the 
parties appear to be in agreement on the outcome reached for loan 1, this decision on only 
looking at whether Hitachi should have provided Mr S with loan 2.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Hitachi needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Hitachi needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr S 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Hitachi has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks before Mr S 
was provided with both of his loans. The results of which showed that Mr S was significantly 
more indebted when he applied for loan 2 than he was at the time he was provided with loan 
1. 
Indeed Mr S now had approaching £24,000.00 in unsecured debt, when he only had around 
£4,000.00 in unsecured debt when he applied for loan 1 eight months earlier. I think that 
Hitachi ought to have been concerned as to why Mr S had an apparent want or need for so 
much additional credit in such a short period of time. 
Furthermore, when Mr S approached Hitachi in December 2018 he was approaching for a 
second loan before hed even successfully repaid his first one. And hed now have to make 
payments to two Hitachi loans. I think that this coupled with the fact that Mr S was returning 
for funds so soon after his first loan in circumstances where his indebtedness was rapidly 
increasing, meant that Hitachi ought to have carried out further checks before determining 
that loan 2 was affordable for him. 
I think further checks would have extended into finding out more about Mr S actual 
expenditure. And as Hitachi didnt carry out such checks, Im satisfied that its checks before 
providing Mr S with loan 2 werent proportionate.
As proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I cant say for 
sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that a 
proportionate check would have told Hitachi that it shouldnt have provided this loan to        
Mr S. 
Mr S has provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for 
this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just because 
something shows up in the information Mr S has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown 
up in any checks Hitachi mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Hitachi indicating what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an 
indication of what Mr S financial circumstances were more likely than not to have been at 
the time. 
To be clear, Ive not looked at Mr S bank statements and the other information hes provided 
because I think that Hitachi ought to have obtained this before lending to him. Ive consulted 
this information because it is readily available at this stage and it contains what I now need 
to reconstruct the proportionate check Hitachi should have but failed to carry out. 
Having considered this information, Im satisfied that had Hitachi carried out a proportionate 
check here it would have seen that Mr S was already in a difficult financial position at the 
time and also found out why this was the case. Im also satisfied that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Hitachi that Mr S existing 
precarious financial position was because he was struggling financially. 
Im therefore satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Hitachi that it shouldnt have provided loan 2 to Mr S. As Hitachi provided Mr S with loan 2, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards 
him. 
Mr S ended up paying and is still being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan 
he shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr S lost out because of what 
Hitachi did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Hitachi needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, Hitachi should put things right for Mr S by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments Mr S made, whether to Hitachi or any third-party debt purchaser, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £3,000.00 originally lent. If Mr S has 
paid more than more than £3,000.00, on loan 2, then Hitachi should treat any extra 
as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr S;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr S to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains on loan 2 after all adjustments have been made, 
all adverse information Hitachi recorded about loan 2 should be removed from Mr S 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Hitachi to take off tax from this interest. Hitachi must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr S complaint. Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman