DRN-2825043
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited has ultimately declined a 
claim for breach of contract under the legal expenses cover included as part of his home 
insurance policy.
For ease, when I refer to Acromas, this includes reference to the acts or omissions of its 
claim handlers. 
What happened
Mr S wanted Acromas to deal with his claim against solicitors (G) for delays and giving him 
poor advice in relation to a case he wanted to bring against a previous employer. When his 
case went to court, I understand the judge informed Mr S that his case was misconceived 
and out of time. Mr S therefore wanted Acromas to deal with a claim for breach of contract 
against G which led to him incurring costs, solicitor fees and disbursements which he wanted 
reimbursed. 
Mr S submitted his claim in January 2018. Although he initially wished to use his own 
solicitor, he agreed to use a panel solicitor (L). Due to the amount of documentation involved 
it took some time for L to complete a prospects assessment. In September 2018, it 
completed the assessment that the case didnt have prospects. But Mr S didnt give 
permission for that assessment to be shared with Acromas until he challenged the outcome 
with a separate legal assessment. Acromas then arranged for counsels opinion which there 
were some delays in obtaining. Counsels opinion was the case had borderline prospects but 
that further information was needed. 
Acromas ultimately concluded cover wasnt provided under the terms of the policy as 
professional negligence wasnt covered for solicitors where the original matter would not be 
covered under the policy; and as the incident leading to the claim pre-dated the policy start 
date, cover wasnt provided. However, it did acknowledge that there had been delays in the 
legal process which it could have been more proactive about, and that Mr S could have been 
told far sooner that his claim wasnt covered. It therefore offered £600 compensation for 
what had gone wrong with the way the claim was handled. 
Our investigator concluded the claim had been fairly declined and agreed the compensation 
offer was fair. Mr S has asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In summary 
he has argued:
His claim is for breach of contract  which can amount to negligence  against 
solicitors in relation to goods and services. He was originally told it wasnt covered 
and then that it was. 
He referred to some wording from his policy which differed to what had been relied 
on by the investigator. The investigator looked into this and noted that was from a 
later policy booklet and so not relevant. 
He believes the funding has been pulled from his case due to the complaints he 
made about severe delays. 
He places reliance on the original legal advice that cover is provided. 
He accepted the compensation offered but that has yet to be paid to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S feels very strongly about his claim and wants to be able to proceed with 
his claim against G. But I can only ask Acromas to settle the claim, or reconsider it, if I find it 
has been declined incorrectly (i.e. not in accordance with the policy terms and conditions) or 
if the policy terms and conditions have been applied unfairly and/or unreasonably. 
The starting position is the contract Mr S has with Acromas  the policy terms for legal 
expenses and the schedule. These set out the level of cover provided and under what 
circumstances a claim can be made and any conditions and/or exclusions which may be 
applicable.  The legal expenses cover provides cover for, amongst others:
2. Contract Disputes [see page 43 of the policy booklet]
Legal costs for defending or pursing a legal claim arising from a dispute over:
you buying, hiring or leasing any personal goods or services;
you selling any personal goods;
you buying or selling your property. 
But as with almost all insurance policies, there are limitations and exclusions to cover. Under 
Legal Expenses Cover Exclusions [see page 45 onwards of the policy booklet], the policy 
says:
We do not cover the following:
1.Legal costs for a legal claim arising from:
a. Where the date of incident arose prior to the commencement of this legal 
expenses policy;
2. Any claim relating to:
t. professional negligence of any solicitor, lawyer or appropriately qualified 
person, firm or company acting on your behalf where the original matter, for 
which they were instructed is not covered under this policy; 
Date of incident is defined within the policy as:
the date of the event; or
the date of the first event where there is more than one event arising from the 
same cause; or
the date on which the cause of action arises where this relates to the 
purchase of your home or your second home;
which may lead to a claim under the policy. 
Mr S took out this cover in September 2017. He is correct that claims for legal costs in 
relation to a contract dispute for buying goods and services are covered under the policy. 
However, that cover is subject to the limitations and exclusions set out in the policy. Given 
those limitations and exclusions (as set out above), my consideration is in relation to whether 
the matter for which G was instructed would have been covered under the terms of the 
policy, and when the date of the incident arose. Mr S wanted to pursue a claim against a past employer and he instructed G to pursue that 
claim. To the extent that Mr S claim concerned a dispute with an employer under a contract 
of employment, cover could be provided. However, Mr S was made redundant in 2010, when 
he believed he should have been retired on ill health grounds  that being the claim he 
instructed G for. 
As the incident Mr S instructed G for took place in 2010, that means the original matter  the 
claim against his previous employer  wouldnt have been covered under this legal expenses 
cover, as the event predated the commencement of it (exclusion at 1 above) by some seven 
years. That in turn means Mr S doesnt enjoy cover for his dispute against G because of the 
exclusion set out a 2. above; professional negligence isnt covered, if the matter G was 
instructed for isnt covered, which it isnt. 
Even if that wasnt the case, because of the exclusion at 1a - set out above - Mr S claim 
wouldnt be covered in any event. I say this because the claim Mr S wishes to pursue 
against G relates to an incident that pre-dates the policy. Although the court may have 
decided the claim against Mr S previous employer was time-barred during a hearing in 
October 2017, the initial advice in relation to that was given in 2016, including whether the 
claim would be in time, and was ongoing. Therefore the date of the first event, where there 
was more than one event arising from the same cause, occurred before the policy started, 
the claim against G would be subject to the exclusion at 1a anyway.
In the circumstances, I dont find that Acromas has declined the claim unfairly or contrary to 
the terms and conditions, so I wont be asking it to reinstate cover or reconsider the claim. 
That said, Acromas has delayed matters unnecessarily. L asked questions about whether 
cover was provided early on and was incorrectly told cover was provided. It wasnt until 
much later, and after counsels opinion had been sought, that Acromas realised the claim 
wasnt actually covered under the terms of the policy. I consider Mr S has been caused 
considerable inconvenience that could easily have been avoided had Acromas given proper 
consideration to its terms at the outset. He has waited on advice, and counsels opinion, and 
had expectations raised somewhat that his claim was proceeding (albeit counsel needed a 
lot more information to properly establish prospects) only for that to be withdrawn. Although I 
have found Acromas declined the claim fairly I nevertheless think it caused Mr S a lot of 
inconvenience for which he should be compensated for. Acromas has already offered Mr S 
£600, which I understand Mr S has already said he accepted but had yet to be paid. In all 
the circumstances, I find that a fair reflection of the inconvenience caused. 
Overall, I find that Acromas has already fairly resolved this complaint and so I wont be 
asking it to do anything further, other than pay Mr S the £600 compensation if it hasnt 
already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Acromas Insurance Company Limited has 
already fairly resolved this complaint and I require it to pay Mr S £600 if it hasnt already 
done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman