DRN-3804246
The complaint
Mr B complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on 
his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to LV, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include claims-
handlers and others insofar as I hold LV responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
For the period from late January 2021, Mr B had a car insured on a comprehensive policy 
with LV. Any claim for damage (except to a windscreen) was subject to a policy excess of 
£250.00.
Unfortunately, later that year, his car and a lorry were involved in an accident. Mr B made a 
claim in respect of his car. LV met his claim. 
LV said Mr B wasnt at fault in the accident. LV waived Mr Bs policy excess. And LV asked 
the lorrys insurer to reimburse its outlay on Mr Bs claim.
Later, LV changed its mind. In November 2021, LV  closed the claim as a fault claim against 
Mr B. It recorded the claim against him on Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) as fault 
or disallowed for no-claims bonus  but LV didnt tell Mr B.
In about December 2021, Mr B contacted another insurance company about cover for the 
next year. That company told Mr B that there was a fault claim against him. Mr B contacted 
LV, but it wouldnt change its decision. Mr B complained to LV about that.
By a final response dated early January 2022, LV apologised for not updating Mr B about its 
decision. It said that  in addition to maintaining the waiver of the £250.00 excess  it would 
pay £100.00 compensation.
Mr B brought his complaint to us in mid-April 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that LV 
had acted within the terms of the policy and fairly in their treatment of the claim. He thought 
that LV didnt act fairly in failing to inform Mr B of the change in decision. The investigator  
thought that the offer of £350.00 compensation in total, along with their apology, was enough 
to put things right. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He was driving on a clear stretch of road with a green traffic light in his favour.
The lorry was stationary in the lane to his right. As he passed the lorry, it turned, 
encroached into his lane and hit the rear part of his car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer has made an outlay to settle a policyholders claim, its common practice for 
that insurer to treat the claim as an open claim or as a fault claim against its policyholder 
unless and until the insurer recovers its outlay in full, typically from a third party.
Most motor insurance policies include a term that allows the insurer to decide how best to 
deal with a claim from or against a third party. LVs policy terms included the following:
We're entitled to:
 have total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim: and
 take proceedings, in your name  at our own expense and for our own benefit to 
recover any payment we've made or to pursue a claim for damages.
In my view, the effect of that term was that  on a question of liability as regards a third party 
 LVs view would prevail over Mr Bs. But I will consider whether LV applied that term fairly.
Im satisfied that LV took into account Mr Bs report of the accident. And  after it settled his 
claim for his car  LV initiated a claim against the lorry driver or their insurer. 
But the lorrys insurer disputed liability. So LV reviewed its stance on liability. 
LV reviewed the dash-cam recording. LV also referred to the Highway Code rule as follows:
If you are following a large vehicle, such as a bus or articulated lorry, be aware that 
the driver may not be able to see you in the mirrors. Be prepared to stop and wait if it 
needs room or time to turn.
LV decided that  rather than incur the cost and risk of court proceedings  it wouldnt 
pursue the lorry driver to recover its outlay.
LVs decision had an adverse effect on Mr Bs driving history and on the likely future cost of 
insurance.
Nevertheless, I consider that LVs decision wasnt unfair or unreasonable. I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct LV to change the way it has recorded the claim.
However, LV shouldve told Mr B when it changed its mind about trying to recover its outlay. 
Its failure to tell him meant that Mr B didnt know there was a fault claim against him, and this 
led to inconvenience with a new insurer.
LV tried to put things right by maintaining its waiver of the £250.00 policy excess and 
sending a cheque for £100.00 compensation. Im satisfied that this was fair and reasonable 
and in line with what I wouldve directed if LV hadnt made that offer. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct LV to pay any more compensation or to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman