DRN-3502410
The complaint
The estate of Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have failed to refund 
over £85,000 he lost to an investment scam before he died. 
What happened
The executor of Mr Ms estate (whom Ill refer to as Mr Ms representative) says that he 
discovered fraudulent transactions had been made from Mr Ms account amounting to over 
£85,000, which were made between July 2017 and August 2018. He says Mr M had no 
access to online banking and that the payments would have been made in branch, but that 
he was extremely vulnerable at the time such that Santander should have prevented the 
payments from being made. 
Mr Ms representative initially said that Mr M could not have authorised the transactions as 
he could not have known that he was talking with a fraudster. Santander refused to refund 
the disputed transactions due to the time that had passed. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She understood that Mr Ms representative was 
claiming the transactions were unauthorised, so concluded he had notified the bank too late, 
as the relevant Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) require notification of any unauthorised 
transactions to be made no later than 13 months. 
Mr Ms representative later clarified that Mr M had been a victim of authorised push payment 
fraud and that he did not dispute that Mr M had authorised the payments. However, he said 
that Santander ought to have stopped the payments on the basis of them appearing 
suspicious. 
Our Investigator issued a further view stating that it wasnt possible to hold Santander liable 
for the authorised payments Mr M had made without knowing further information about the 
scam and the reasons why he was making the payments. Mr Ms representative disagreed, 
so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold it for the following reasons:
After initially stating that Mr M had not authorised the transactions, his representative 
has since explained that this is no longer in dispute and accepts that the payments 
were authorised by Mr M. And based on the evidence I have seen, it seems most 
likely that Mr M did consent to and authorise the payments being made, as they were 
authenticated by him using his security credentials issued by Santander.
Mr Ms representative submits that Mr M was extremely vulnerable at the time, and I 
appreciate that may well have been the case. But Ive not been made aware of any 
power of attorney that had been registered that would mean Mr M was not capable of 
consenting to transactions being made from his account, or that the bank had been 
made aware of any particular vulnerabilities. A banks duty first and foremost is to 
execute transactions at the request of its customers, so I dont think it has acted 
unreasonably by following Mr Ms instructions to make the payments as he 
requested. 
Mr Ms representative claims that Mr M fell victim to a scam and that Santander didnt 
do enough to prevent it. The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it 
clear that banks have a duty to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, 
including fraud and scams. But the obligation to warn customers of the risk of such 
financial harm will only reasonably have been engaged if there were sufficient 
grounds for suspecting the payee was a fraudster. And having considered the 
relevant payees of the disputed transactions, Its not immediately clear that these 
companies were even operating a scam at the time, or at least there is little evidence 
available online to suggest this was the case (I cannot find reference to any of the 
payees on the FCA warning list or IOSCO investor alerts portal, for example). 
Indeed, some even appear to be legitimate businesses. 
However, even if I were to accept the payees were fraudulent, and that Santander 
ought to have questioned Mr M about the payments, it does not automatically mean 
they are liable for his loss. Causation is a critical determinative factor in every scam 
case. It isnt enough that a payment service provider failed to act fairly or reasonably; 
its acts or omissions must be the immediate and effective cause of losses that were 
reasonably foreseeable at the time of the breach. In other words, I would have to be 
satisfied that Mr M wouldnt have likely made the payments if Santander had 
intervened and questioned him. However, given that Mr M has since died, its not 
possible to determine what action he would have likely taken either way. And there 
simply isnt enough information about the payees or the reasons behind why he was 
making the payments to say whether any intervention by Santander would have 
prevented him from making them. Therefore, even if this was a scam and Santander 
were at fault, I dont consider there to be enough persuasive evidence to hold the 
bank liable for Mr Ms loss in these circumstances.  
I note that both Santander and the investigator have referred to the 13-month time 
limit for reporting disputed transactions as per regulation 59 of the PSRs 2009, and 
regulation 74 of the PSRs 2017 (which apply to any payment services carried out on 
or after 13 January 2018). However, this 13-month time limit to notify the bank only 
applies to unauthorised transactions. So, it would not apply in this case where Mr Ms 
representative accepts that the transactions were authorised by Mr M. But in any 
case, this doesnt make a difference to the outcome of Mr Ms complaint as 
Santander still cant fairly be held liable for the transactions for the reasons Ive given 
above.
I also note that Mr Ms representative has made reference to the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, which Santander is signed up to. However, this 
Code came into force on 28 May 2019. All of the transactions Mr Ms representative 
has disputed took place prior to this date, so they would not fall to be considered 
under the Code either. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr Ms representative, but in the 
circumstances I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to ask Santander to reimburse 
the payments he has disputed. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman