DRN-2959449
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc sold him a motor insurance policy that he couldnt 
use. He wants a refund of his years premium and road tax.
 
What happened
Mr M developed a medical condition and he lost his driving licence. At his policy renewal in 
2019, Sainsburys said this wasnt a problem and he could add his son to the policy as a 
named driver. But at his 2020 renewal, Sainsburys said it shouldnt have sold him the policy 
as he didnt have a licence. Mr M thought hed been sold a policy in 2019 that he couldnt 
use. But Sainsburys said that the insurer would have provided cover if a claim had been 
made. So it didnt refund Mr Ms premium, but it offered Mr M £30 compensation. Mr M 
rejected this and said it was easy to say that a claim would be paid after the event.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Sainsburys 
had made a mistake in 2019 and missed the opportunity to tell Mr M that it couldnt provide 
him with a policy. He thought that if Sainsburys had provided better information, Mr M would 
have parked up his car and declared it Statutory Off Road Notification (SORN), as he did in 
2020. The consequence was that Mr M had paid a years premium and road tax 
unnecessarily in 2019. And so he thought Sainsburys should reimburse this, with interest.
Sainsburys replied that in 2019 Mr M wanted the policy renewed so the named driver could 
use the car and for his peace of mind. It said hed wanted to renew in 2020 for the same 
reasons. So it thought Mr M had benefited from the renewal and no refund should be given. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys agreed that it had made an error in 2019 when it allowed Mr M to renew his 
policy after his licence had been revoked for medical reasons. But it said that Mr M wanted 
to renew his policy. Hed already had his son on the policy for a few weeks following the 
change in his health. And Sainsburys thought Mr M had wanted to continue this 
arrangement and to insure the car for his peace of mind. Mr M, however, said that hed been 
advised by Sainsburys agent to keep his son on the policy to keep it live. 
The recordings of the calls at the time arent available for me to listen to. So I cant hear what 
was discussed at the time. So I have to consider what was most likely to have happened. 
When Sainsburys told Mr M at his 2020 renewal that it couldnt insure him, Mr M decided to 
declare his car SORN and park it up on his drive. I think if Sainsburys had given him the 
correct information in 2019, then he would most probably have made the same decision. 
And so Mr M would then have avoided the expenses of road tax and insurance.
Sainsburys said Mr M had wanted to continue the policy so his son could drive the car 
occasionally. But his son had only recently been added to the policy as a named driver. And 
Mr M explained that he needed the car for just one week. Mr M said his son had his own car 
and lived at a different address. So Im not persuaded that Mr M would have wanted to pay 
more for a years insurance and also for road tax for his sons possible occasional use of the 
car.
Sainsburys said that Mr M wanted to continue his insurance for peace of mind in case the 
car was stolen or damaged even when not in use. Mr M told us that he was worried that the 
car may be scratched or damaged whilst parked on his drive. He said hed asked 
Sainsburys advice at renewal. And I think Sainsburys then may have wrongly advised him 
to keep his son on the policy. Without supporting evidence I cant say what was said at the 
time. But I think, based on his decision in 2020, if Mr M had been given the correct advice he 
would have declared the car SORN. 
Sainsburys also said that the insurer would have provided indemnity if any claim had been 
made in the policy year. It said this would still be provided if a claim came to light. I dont 
doubt this, but no claims were made. And I think, due to the passage of time, its unlikely that 
any claims for the 2019  2020 policy year will emerge now. So I cant see how this 
advantages Mr M. 
I think its clear that Sainsburys made a mistake in 2019 when it renewed Mr Ms policy 
despite him explaining his situation. When a business makes a mistake, as Sainsburys 
accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as its able 
to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
Sainsburys previously offered Mr M £30 compensation for the effect of its error. I think thats 
fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance. I think Sainsburys should 
honour this offer if Mr M now chooses to accept it. 
I think Mr M lost out because of Sainsburys mistake as he paid for a years insurance and 
road tax when he was unable to use his car. So I think Sainsburys should reasonably 
reimburse him for these costs. And, because Mr M has been without his money for some 
time, I think Sainsburys should add interest to this amount.
Sainsburys said the refund of the premium was a matter for the insurer. But I think thats for 
Sainsburys to sort out with the insurer if it so wishes. 
Putting things right
I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to do the following:
1. Reimburse Mr M his motor insurance premium and road tax for 2019  2020 adding 
interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement. 
2. Honour its offer of £30 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
incorrectly renewing Mr Ms policy. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sainsburys to take off tax from this interest. Sainsburys 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Sainsburys Bank Plc to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman