DRN-3859444
The complaint
Mr P complains that Embark Investment Services Limited (Embark) mis-administered his 
pension transfer request, causing financial losses and distress and inconvenience. He wants 
the losses re-imbursing and compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr Ps SIPP was originally with Alliance Trust Savings who were in the process of migrating 
this part of the business to Embark when Mr P decided to transfer his plan to a new pension 
provider, Interactive Investor (Interactive) in October 2020. He felt Interactive offered more 
flexibility and would enable him to better manage his investments.
Mr P says he was told he could transfer in cash in around three weeks or in specie (where 
the holdings are re-registered to the new plan, rather than requiring these to be sold and 
transferred as cash) in around six to seven weeks. Interactive advised Mr P that it could 
accept the transfer of all but two of the various investment funds held in his plan in specie 
and he decided to proceed on this basis.
Embark contacted Interactive to say it would start processing the transfer in the week 
commencing 23 November 2020. But there was a delay and Mr P says he pressed Embark 
for updates. In early January 2021 Mr P says Embark advised there was a problem with the 
transfer technology and his case had been escalated. Having heard nothing further Mr P 
complained on 25 January 2021 saying:
You are basically keeping my pension fund hostage  I cannot access it and make 
changes.
Mr P says he told Embark he wanted to make investment trades due to concerns he had 
about the stock market. He says it said doing so would put his transfer to the back of the 
queue and potentially take months to complete as it was very busy.
Mr P continued to ask for updates. In mid-February 2021 Embark said the problem was that 
its system wouldnt facilitate in specie transfers and nothing had been progressed since 
November 2020. He emailed Embark again on 21 February 2021 saying:
Ive told you in a number of emails and calls that I want to access my account to be 
able to make trades in view of current market conditions and concerns about a 
market crash.
Most of the funds were transferred in specie to Interactive by the end of February 2021, but 
there were further delays.
Due to the ongoing problems Mr P decided to refer his complaint to our service on 5 April 
2021. Our investigator asked Embark for an update on his complaint and it asked, on several 
occasions, for more time to complete the transfer and investigate the complaint. The two 
funds that couldnt be transferred in specie werent sold until 19 April 2021 and the cash 
proceeds were sent to Interactive on 21 May 2021. A further problem with one fund delayed 
its in specie transfer until 23 July 2021.
Embark then provided its response to Mr Ps complaint. It apologised for the delays, saying 
this was because its system would only transfer out accounts which were fully encashed so 
it couldnt process his request until the process changed in mid- February 2021. It accepted 
it hadnt told Mr P this in January 2021. It said it processed Mr Ps transfer on 15 February 
2021. And should have sold the two funds to be transferred as cash within three working 
days of this but hadnt instructed this until the 19 April 2021 due to an uplift in volumes.
It said the final in specie transfer had been delayed due to technical issues with Interactives 
systems rather than its own, which it had queried with Interactive on 27 April 2021. It said 
Interactive hadnt been able to resolve the issue until 7 June 2021 and the transfer was 
completed the same day. It said the delay in selling the two investments to be transferred as 
cash had caused Mr P a loss of £2,171.43 and this amount would be sent to Interactive.
And it offered him £250 in compensation for the inconvenience caused by the delays as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Embark said it noted Mr Ps comments about not being able to trade investments, but that it 
couldnt accept a compensation request for a hypothetical claim. However, if Mr P provided 
proof of his investment intentions it could investigate further.
Mr P didnt accept this. He said if hed known an in specie transfer couldnt be undertaken 
hed have proceeded with a cash transfer. He asked our investigator to consider his 
complaint. Embark then agreed to refund the fees it had charged Mr P between 25 March 
and 3 August 2021.
Our investigator looked into it and he decided to uphold the complaint.
He said it was clear that Mr P followed investment markets and wanted to react to 
investment opportunities as they arose. And he wouldnt have chosen the in specie transfer 
process if hed known it would take over three months to complete. Instead, he said Mr P 
would have requested a cash transfer. Our investigator said Embark should have advised Mr 
P of the delay by 18 November 2020, when it told Interactive it would process the in specie 
transfer the following week. Had Mr P then decided to proceed with a cash transfer, our 
investigator said it should have been completed within four weeks, so by 21 December 2020 
at the latest.
Our investigator said as all assets should have been transferred by 21 December 2020, 
Embark should undertake a calculation to establish if there was a fall in value between the 
date they should have been sold and transferred and when they were actually sold or 
transferred. If this calculation showed a loss, he said Embark should compensate Mr P for it.
He said Mr P had missed opportunities to trade because Embark had said doing so would 
have further delayed the transfer. And whilst Mr P hadnt specifically told Embark what 
trades he wouldve made he had told it he wanted to make changes.
He said Embark should compare the actual value of Mr Ps SIPP to a notional value 
calculated if all assets had been sold on 7 December 2020. And had been reinvested on 21 
December 2020 and provided a return in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index, until the day Embark accepted this outcome.
If the notional value was higher than the actual value, then Mr P had suffered a loss and 
Embark should pay this amount into Mr Ps Interactive SIPP. But if this wasnt possible then 
it should pay the compensation directly to him allowing for any tax implications.Our investigator said Embark should also reimburse any fees it had taken from 21 December 
2020. And as the delays had spanned several months and had been entirely avoidable it 
was fair that the compensation for the distress and inconvenience should be increased to 
£500 from £250.
Mr P said he agreed with our investigator. Embark initially didnt respond, before asking for 
more time to consider matters, saying it needed to contact Interactive for more information. It 
then said:
  All its fees between 21 December 2020 and 10 August 2021 had already been 
refunded to Interactive. And it had made a payment of £2,172.43 in respect of the 
delayed sale transactions.
  It agreed that the compensation for the inconvenience should be increased to £500.
  It said it had not carried out the loss calculation proposed by our investigator as this 
is based on a hypothetical claim that Mr P would have sold his portfolio in 
December 2020. Whereas hed actually expressed concern that this had happened 
in error in January 2021:
due to an automated letter being produced by the platform  which suggests 
Mr P wouldnt have risked a loss in his portfolio.
  It said Mr P had expressed his intent to trade and make changes whilst the transfer 
was ongoing. But, having made enquiries with Interactive once the transfers had 
been made, he hadnt made any trades until 17 June 2021, around four weeks after 
the cash transfer had been completed. Which:
Embark do not deem was made in a timely manner and therefore, wouldnt 
consider a further loss assessment
Our investigator agreed it was hypothetical that Mr P would have sold the entire portfolio. But 
said Embark had made a mistake in not telling Mr P about the problem in November 2020. 
And he should be put back in the position he should have been in had the mistake not been 
made. As Mr P would have proceeded with a cash transfer and invested his portfolio in 
keeping with his risk appetite.
Our investigator said Mr P had queried the erroneous letter in January 2021 because at that 
time he understood Embark was processing the in-Specie transfer and the letter 
contradicted his instructions. He said Mr P had provided compelling reasons why he hadnt 
immediately made trades once the transfer was completed, but these have no bearing on 
the outcome. And having considered the points Embark had made he still thought outcome 
proposed was fair.
As Embark doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 11 October 2022; I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to uphold 
the complaint.However, I think it is fair that the loss calculation should be carried out over a different time 
period than proposed by our investigator. This being to the point Mr P was largely back in 
control of his investments. Ill explain why I think this is fair below, but first Ill set out why I 
think Embark did mis-administer Mr Ps transfer, which caused him distress and 
inconvenience, and potentially financial losses.
I think this transfer took an unacceptably long time to complete and Embark should have 
advised Mr P that it had problems with in specie transfers at the earliest opportunity. It didnt 
do that. This mistake was compounded by excessive delays in completing other aspects of 
the transfer, notably the sale of investments that couldnt be transferred in specie. And the 
subsequent delay in sending cash proceeds to Interactive, meaning this wasnt received until 
around six months after Mr P requested the transfer be made.
Given the comments Mr P made to Embark as he chased it for updates, I think it is clear that 
he wanted to make investment trades. In an email to Embark on 22 February 2021 he said:
Given the choice I would have shifted my holdings to cash when the US market 
peaked a couple of weeks ago
Mr Ps reason for having a SIPP where he managed the investments himself was to be in 
control. Embarks administration problems and the failure to communicate these to him 
meant he wasnt, and this caused him distress and inconvenience over many months.
I think Embark should have advised Mr P there was a problem by 18 November 2020, when 
it told Interactive it would begin processing the transfer in the next few days. If it had done 
so, Im satisfied Mr P would have made the decision to sell the investment holdings and 
transfer the proceeds as cash. I think its reasonable that the holdings would have been sold 
by 7 December 2020, and the transfer completed with the funds re-invested by 21 December 
2020. Mr P would have then been free to manage his investments as he wished.
I think its likely Mr P would have made investment trades during the delay. And that he 
didnt immediately make trades once the transfer was largely completed is irrelevant. Mr P 
says he wanted to respond to opportunities or risks he saw in financial markets, some of 
which were missed during the delay, and once missed there was no point in acting after the 
event. That seems an entirely reasonable investment approach.
Putting things right
Embark has already refunded its administration fees deducted after 21 December 2020, 
which I think is fair. It has also agreed to increase the compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience from £250 to £500 as proposed by our investigator. I think this is reasonable 
in the circumstances of the complaint.
In terms of potential investment losses that may have been incurred during the delayed 
transfer I think Embark should undertake a loss redress calculation largely as outlined by 
our investigator. This should be based on Mr Ps Embark SIPP assets being sold to cash 
on 7 December 2021 and invested in the benchmark portfolio on 21 December 2021. 
However, I think the end date for the loss calculation should be from the point Mr P was 
back in control of his investments, otherwise I would be asking Embark to underpin Mr Ps 
own investment decisions which I dont think is fair.
Whilst some funds were delayed a while longer, I think this point was once Interactive 
received the cash proceeds from the two delayed sales which was 21 May 2021. There was an outstanding in specie transfer at this point but this wasnt due to a problem 
caused by Embark.
Whilst Mr P could have traded the investments that had been moved in specie by the end of 
February 2021, he has said that certain opportunities had already been missed by then. 
And, the cash proceeds from the two investments that did need to be sold of around 
£100,000 were expected to be transferred to Interactive much sooner than they were and 
would have provided some liquidity for any new investment. Taking these points together, I 
think 21 May 2021 is the date when Mr P could reasonably be said to be back in control of 
the majority of his portfolio and able to make changes as he wanted.
If the comparison between the value from the benchmark portfolio and the actual value of 
Mr Ps SIPP shows a loss to that date, then interest at 8% per year simple should be added 
to that sum. Ive set out what I think should be done below.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr P should be put as closely as possible into the position he would be in 
now had Embark not delayed the transfer.
I think Mr P would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he 
would have done in terms of individual investment X being sold on this date, held in cash 
and then invested in investment Y on this day and so on. But Mr P did tell Embark he 
would have sold his investments to cash around the first week of February 2021. Had he 
instead sold all the investments on 7 December 2020 in order to transfer as cash I think he 
would have re-invested by 21 December 2020.
I think liquidating all the investments to cash then would have prompted a full reappraisal. 
And it isnt clear what Mr P would have then re-invested into or what and when 
subsequent trades would have been made in this scenario.
Because of this I think its reasonable to use a benchmark as a basis for calculations to 
establish if a loss has been incurred. A benchmark doesnt reflect exactly what I think Mr 
P would have done. But I think it is a fair approach given that Mr P knew he would have 
traded had he been able to in January and February 2021, but not exactly what trades 
would have been made and when.
It may be that a more focused appraisal could have been undertaken had Embark 
engaged properly with Mr P in January and February 2021, when he was raising concerns 
about not being able to trade, or if it had dealt with his complaint more promptly. But Im 
satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr P's circumstances, 
his investment objectives and that the matter is being considered after the event.
What must Embark do?
To compensate Mr P fairly, Embark must:
  Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
  If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
  Embark should calculate the value of Mr Ps SIPP if all of his assets had been sold 
to cash on 7 December 2020; and  Calculate the value of this sum if it had provided a return in line with the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index benchmark from 21 December 2020 
until 21 May 2021, when Mr P made his first investment within the Interactive SIPP 
 this is the fair value.
  Appropriate allowance should be made for the compensation of £2,172 already paid 
for the delayed sale of the two investments that could not be transferred in specie.
  Compare the fair value to the combined actual value of Mr Ps SIPP with Interactive 
on 21 May 2021 plus the remaining actual value of his Embark SIPP on the same 
date (after the transfer of cash from the sale of the two funds that couldnt be 
transferred in specie). It should disregard any additional contributions and 
withdrawals Mr P may have made to his SIPP, to ensure it is comparing like for like.
  If the combined actual value is higher than the fair value, there is no loss. If the fair 
value is higher than the combined actual value, Mr P has suffered a loss and should 
receive compensation equivalent to this sum.
  If there is a loss Embark should add interest at 8% per year simple to the date it 
settles the compensation.
  If there is a loss, Embark should pay into Mr P's Interactive pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
  If Embark is unable to pay the compensation into Mr P's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr P wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
   The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr P's actual or expected
   marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
  Its reasonable to assume that Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr P would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
  If either Embark or Mr P dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let 
us know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified, and Mr P 
receives appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this 
assumption once any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
  Pay Mr P £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in 
transferring his pension and his inability to manage his investments during the 
delay.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Embark deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr P how much has been taken off. Embark should give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr P asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
    Mr P wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment 
risk.
    The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up 
of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to 
take some risk to get a higher return.
    Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided 
within the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable 
measure of comparison given Mr P's circumstances and risk attitude.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or comments they would like me to 
consider.
Response to provisional decision
Mr P didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Embark said it accepted my provisional decision. It said it couldnt have advised Mr P there 
was a problem with in specie transfers on 18 November 2020 as his account hadnt migrated 
to it until 21 November 2020. It said it should have known there was a problem and advised 
Mr P about it then. It apologised for the errors made. 
It said due to backlogs it didnt start processing the transfer until 21 December 2020. But at 
that time:
it wasnt common knowledge within Embark Platform that our technology provider 
did not support in specie SIPP transfer outs.  
Embark said that the technology provider did advise the Transfer Team on 22 December 
2021 that it couldnt facilitate an in specie transfer and it was sorry that this wasnt 
communicated to Mr P then. It said that its Service Team were only made aware of the 
problem sometime between late January to mid-February 2021 (it didnt know when), and so 
wouldnt have been able to advise Mr P there was a problem when he was contacting the 
Service Team in January 2021. 
It said it had undertaken the loss calculation proposed in my provisional decision. And that it 
would pay the £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience on receipt of Mr Ps bank 
details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
I think Embark unfairly delayed Mr Ps transfer and this prevented him from managing his 
investments as he wanted. 
It accepts it should have been aware that it couldnt facilitate in specie transfers and should 
have advised Mr P immediately. Had it done so, I think Mr P would have instructed Embark 
to sell the investments and to make the transfer in cash. I think these sales would have been 
instructed by 7 December 2020 and the transfer completed and be available for re-
investment by 21 December 2020. Mr P would then have been fully in control of his 
investments; as it was, he wasnt in this position until 21 May 2021. Not being in control may 
have caused him an investment loss. If it has, its reasonable that Mr P be compensated for 
it. 
Mr P should be put as closely as possible into the position he would be in now had Embark 
not delayed the transfer. Had he transferred his SIPP as cash I think he would have 
reappraised his investments and re-invested differently. But its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done. Although if Embark had engaged with Mr P properly at the time 
when he was raising concerns, it may be that a more focused appraisal could have been 
undertaken.
As that didnt happen, I think its reasonable to use a benchmark as a basis for calculations 
to establish if a loss has been incurred. This wont reflect exactly what I think Mr P would 
have done. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr P's 
circumstances, his investment objectives and that the matter is being considered after the 
event.
Putting things right
Embark has refunded its administration fees deducted after 21 December 2020. It offered 
£250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience and agreed to this being increased to 
£500, which I think is fair amount in the circumstances of this complaint.
In terms of the potential investment loss Embark should undertake the following loss redress 
calculation to identify if a loss has occurred as a result of the delay: 
  Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
  If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
  Calculate the value of Mr Ps SIPP if all of his assets had been sold to cash on 7 
December 2020; and
  Calculate the value of this sum if it had provided a return in line with the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index benchmark from 21 December 2020 
until 21 May 2021, when Mr P made his first investment within the Interactive SIPP 
 this is the fair value.
  Appropriate allowance should be made for the compensation of £2,172 already paid 
for the delayed sale of the two investments that could not be transferred in specie.  Compare the fair value to the combined actual value of Mr Ps SIPP with Interactive 
on 21 May 2021 plus the remaining actual value of his Embark SIPP on the same 
date (after the transfer of cash from the sale of the two funds that couldnt be 
transferred in specie). It should disregard any additional contributions and 
withdrawals Mr P may have made to his SIPP, to ensure it is comparing like for like.
  If the combined actual value is higher than the fair value, there is no loss. If the fair 
value is higher than the combined actual value, Mr P has suffered a loss and should 
receive compensation equivalent to this sum.
  If there is a loss Embark should add interest at 8% per year simple to the date it 
settles the compensation.
  If there is a loss, Embark should pay into Mr P's Interactive pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
  If Embark is unable to pay the compensation into Mr P's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr P wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
 The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr P's actual or expected         
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
  Its reasonable to assume that Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr P would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
  Pay Mr P £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in 
transferring his pension and his inability to manage his investments during the 
delay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Embark Investment Services Limited.
I direct Embark Investment Services Limited to undertake the loss redress calculation set out 
above and if this shows a loss, pay compensation as set out above, adding interest at 8% 
per year simple to the date it settles the compensation.
I direct Embark Investment Services Limited to pay Mr P £500 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he has been caused. 
Embark Investment Services Limited must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
If Embark Investment Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mr P how much its taken 
off. It should also give a certificate showing this if Mr P asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman