DRN-1950632
The complaint
Mr T says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr T bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) alongside a mortgage in 2002. TMPP 
can be split into sections, namely Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), Life 
Cover and Critical Illness Cover (CIC).
Mr T has only complained about the PPI cover so Ive only looked at the sale of the PPI 
element of the package is this decision.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why. 
As the PPI was sold so long ago, neither BOS nor Mr T have much paperwork from the time 
of sale. I dont think thats unreasonable, but it does mean I have limited information about 
the sale. So, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the evidence I do have, the 
wider circumstances and considering both BOSs and Mr Ts testimony. 
BOS and Mr T say PPI was sold in a meeting in branch and Ive seen nothing to suggest 
otherwise. So, I think thats likely to be right and the policy was likely sold in a branch.
Mr T says he didnt ask for PPI, didnt want it or need it. BOS says as this policy was sold in 
branch, its advisor wouldve made the optional nature of the PPI clear, and sought his 
consent before adding it to his account 
Ive seen a screenshot of BOSs records which show that it asked Mr T a series of questions 
checking whether he was eligible for the PPI and also recorded his answers. This to me 
suggests it was discussed to some degree. 
I understand Mr T also didnt take the Life and CIC elements of the TMPP package, so he 
seems to have understood that these products were optional, so to me I think its more likely 
he wouldve known the PPI was also optional. 
So, I think its likely Mr T knew about the PPI, and that he could choose whether or not to buy 
it. Thats also in line with what I know of BOSs sales processes at the time of sale, and our 
experience of how similar policies were sold at that time. 
So overall, I think its more likely that BOS made Mr T aware that he had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and Mr T chose to take it. 
BOS says it recommended the PPI, while Mr T says it didnt. If BOS did recommend the PPI, 
this wouldve placed a greater responsibility on it as it holds it to a higher standard. And as 
this was sold in branch, I think BOS is likely to be right and it did recommend the PPI. So, 
Ive looked at the complaint on that basis. This means BOS had to check that it was right for 
Mr T. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. Ill explain 
why.
Mr T was eligible for the PPI and it doesnt look like he wouldve been affected by any of the 
main things it didnt cover. For example, he says he was employed and didnt suffer from any 
medical conditions at the time of sale. So, he wouldnt be affected by anything in the terms 
about unusual work arrangements or known health issues. 
Mr T says he had significant sick pay provided by his employer and as he was employed, I 
think its likely he wouldve had other employee benefits too, like redundancy pay. But he 
didnt have any other means such as savings to help him meet his repayments if he had 
found himself unexpectedly out of work.  
And this policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ts employee benefits  for up to 24 months if 
he was off work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. So overall, I think he wouldve 
found the cover useful to protect his mortgage. It was a long term and significant 
commitment secured on his home  and the effects of not keeping up with the repayments 
couldve been very serious. I also havent seen anything to suggest the cover was 
unaffordable for him at the time he took it. So, I think the PPI was suitable for him at the 
time. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think that, even if hed been given clearer information about the PPI at the time of 
sale, hed still have bought it. I say this because, as Ive said above, theres nothing in the 
policy that wouldve affected Mr T in such a way that he wouldnt have wanted it. So, I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman