DRN-3121562
The complaint
Miss W complained that NewDay Ltd lent irresponsibly when providing her with two credit 
cards.
What happened
Miss W applied for the first credit card online in August 2016. Her application data included 
that she was a part-time contractor earning £9,600 a year. NewDay provided the card with a 
limit of £600. 
Miss W applied for the second credit card online in September 2017. Her application data 
included that she was employed and that she was earning £16,000 a year. This card was 
provided with a limit of £300.
In 2021 Miss W complained to NewDay. She said it had lent to her irresponsibly regarding 
both credit cards and that shed been coerced into taking out the credit by someone she 
knew. She said NewDay ought to have known shed been turned down for several payday 
loans which indicated she couldnt afford the credit cards. 
NewDay responded to say it was satisfied it had lent to her appropriately and in line with its 
acceptance criteria. It said it had considered a range of information when looking at her 
applications including that provided by credit reference agencies, any existing account 
behaviour with NewDay and the information provided with the relevant applications.
Unhappy with NewDays response, Miss W complained to us. Our investigator looked into 
the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld in part. They believed NewDay 
was entitled to provide the first credit card with the credit limit given. But the investigator 
thought that NewDay shouldnt have offered Miss W the second credit card. They said that, 
to put things right for Miss W, NewDay should pay her back for the interest and charges 
incurred on the second credit card, plus 8% simple interest and remove all adverse 
information relating to the second credit card from her credit file.   
Miss W didnt dispute the investigators findings but NewDay disagreed with them. It said it 
wasnt aware of any payday loans in 2017 and that these wouldnt necessarily have meant 
her application would have been turned down in any case. It said it was aware of her 
unsecured debt and that this was acceptable to NewDay given its lending criteria. NewDay 
said it appreciated Miss Ws bank statements from that time showed she was heavily reliant 
on her overdraft but that it was unfair of us to rely on them to reach a retrospective decision 
when it wasnt required to review them in reaching its lending decision at that time.  
Because the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Miss Ws complaint.
Im not going to address the lending decision regarding the first credit card in detail here. 
Thats because Miss W hasnt responded to that (or any other) aspect of the investigators 
assessment issued before the complaint came to me. But I confirm that I broadly agree with 
the investigators findings on it and their reasoning. In summary, I believe:
The evidence NewDay obtained in 2016 showed Miss W had a low income of £9,600 
but also a relatively low level of unsecured debt, which stood at £600.
The credit checks NewDay carried out showed no record of any arrears, defaults, or 
payday loans on Miss Ws file.
There was little sign that Miss W was in financial difficulty at that time. The checks 
NewDay had carried out were, on balance, reasonable and proportionate.
There was insufficient reason for NewDay to suspect, given the checks it had carried 
out, that Miss W might struggle to sustainably afford the credit card repayments. 
Id like to thank Miss W for the information shes provided regarding the personal relationship 
she was in and the difficulties she says she experienced as a result. I appreciate this must 
have been very difficult for her to provide details about.
Ive thought very carefully about whether the available evidence shows the relationship led to 
Miss W being coerced into taking this first credit card, but Im not satisfied that it does. Thats 
because, for example, Miss W was asked by the investigator about police reports or orders 
that might have been issued around the time of the application, but she hasnt been able to 
provide any to date. She says she never pressed charges and so is unsure if any evidence 
was kept on police file.
At my request, the investigator contacted Miss W again to ask her for more information 
regarding the relationship and its impact, but no response has been received. 
Having carefully considered the available information, I havent seen enough evidence to 
show Miss W was coerced into arranging the credit.   
Ill now focus on the aspect of the complaint that remained in dispute following the 
investigators assessment  that is, NewDays decision to offer the second credit card. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold that part of the complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if NewDay treated Miss W 
fairly and reasonably when it provided her with the credit in 2017. These include:
1) Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss W would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did NewDay make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did NewDay act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill consider each of these in turn.Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss W 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
The rules that NewDay had to follow required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess whether Miss W could afford to repay the credit being offered. This is 
often referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks NewDay needed to carry out, but they did set 
out that those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I 
think what this meant in practice was that the scope and extent of NewDays checks needed 
to reflect the nature of the lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the 
interest rate, the monthly and total amounts repayable, and any indications of customer 
vulnerability.  
The checks NewDay needed to carry out as part of its affordability assessment had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the credit back would cause Miss W any difficulties or have any adverse 
consequences for her. They would also need to take account of factors such as the amount 
of money being lent, the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the interest rate 
being charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And, because of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be more 
thorough if Miss W had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for her 
to meet the credit card repayments with a low income. 
NewDay would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts she had to repay, as 
it would be more difficult to make higher repayments depending on Miss Ws income. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether NewDay completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss W would be able to repay her credit card in a 
sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the second credit card application are as follows:
Miss W was applying for the credit card which had an annual interest rate (APR) of 
34.9%.
Miss W was recorded by NewDay as having a yearly income of £16,000 when she 
applied for the credit card. 
The credit limit of £300 was, in itself, fairly low particularly when compared with Miss Ws 
recorded earnings. 
When NewDay assessed Miss Ws application in 2017, it used information provided by her 
as well as through checking some of her credit details via a credit reference agency. It said 
the checks showed Miss W had nine other active accounts at the time, but with no evidence 
of arrears, defaults, adverse public records, or any outstanding payday loan balances. 
That said, some of the information NewDay held about Miss W regarding how she was 
managing her first credit card cast her financial situation in a less favourable light. 
Specifically, that information (provided to NewDay by a credit reference agency) showed that 
by September 2016 shed taken four payday loans  one of which had been opened in the 
last three months. The information showed all four payday loans were still active when she 
applied for the second credit card in 2017.In addition, the information NewDay held regarding the first credit card showed that Miss Ws 
external debt had increased steeply from around £2,000 in March 2017 to more than 
£10,000 in the months leading up to the application for the second credit card. Although the 
credit limit for the second credit card was relatively modest at £300, this should have been 
considered in the light of the above-mentioned debt and the existing credit limit of £600 on 
her first credit card.
Despite that, it seems Miss Ws application was accepted automatically and without further 
checks being carried out. 
I think the information NewDay held  which showed Miss W had taken multiple payday 
loans and that her debt levels had increased significantly in a short space of time  should 
have put it on notice that more borrower focussed checks would have been appropriate in 
the circumstances. These would have helped it to determine whether Miss W could 
sustainably afford to repay the second credit card.
As Ive already alluded to, NewDays internal lending policy isnt a determining factor in this 
case. The question is more one of whether it acted in accordance with the lending rules and 
regulations of the time, which required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that the Miss W could sustainably afford to make the repayments in respect of 
the credit facility she was being provided with. Bearing in mind the above, I dont believe the 
checks NewDay carried out prior to it offering the second credit card showed Miss W could 
sustainably afford to make the repayments. I dont think that the checks were, on balance, 
reasonable and proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
I think NewDay should have ensured that the scope and extent of its checks were adapted to 
the circumstances of its offer to Miss W. An increase of £300, while apparently modest in 
isolation, represented a relatively substantial extra financial burden in addition to her existing 
borrowing. Given this and the information NewDay had about Miss W further checks would, 
in my opinion, have needed to clarify her debts and verify her expenditure. These would 
have been in addition to the checks it carried out and establish that she was able to afford 
the credit card repayments. 
One of the potential difficulties given the length of time since the credit card was offered is 
understanding what reasonable and proportionate checks might have shown, if NewDay had 
carried them out. To that end, our investigator asked Miss W for a copy of her full credit 
report and bank account transactions and these have helped develop a picture of her 
financial situation at that time.
These show that, in addition to Miss Ws heavy reliance on debt, she was running a 
consistently high overdraft on her bank account to get by. For example, her transactions in 
the six months leading up to the second credit card application show her account was rarely 
in credit and that her overdraft was regularly between the low hundreds and often as much 
as £1,000 or more. To put that into perspective, the latter was roughly equivalent to her net 
monthly income at that time. 
I believe such levels of debt, when taking account of Miss Ws income, ought to have given 
NewDay significant cause for concern in offering the lending that it did. 
Did NewDay make a fair lending decision?  That Miss Ws bank account was consistently overdrawn, shed taken several payday loans 
and her level of debt had grown sharply all indicate to me that she was struggling financially 
by September 2017. 
I believe the indications are that borrower focussed checks by NewDay would have 
highlighted that Miss Ws financial situation was such that the credit she was offered was 
unlikely to be sustainably affordable for her.
For these reasons, I think that NewDay should have realised in the circumstances that it was 
unlikely Miss W would have been able to cope with the credit it was offering and that it 
wasnt a fair decision to lend to her. 
Did NewDay act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss W in some other way? 
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that NewDay acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss W in some other way.
Putting things right
NewDay should put Miss W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt been given 
the second credit card, albeit shes had the benefit of the money borrowed and so needed to 
repay the principal amount. I understand that the credit card account has now been settled 
and closed. So, NewDay should: 
A. Remove any interest charged on the credit card. All late payment and over limit fees 
should also be removed. NewDay should then refund the difference between what 
Miss W owed when she closed her account and what she would have owed without 
those charges and fees. 
B. Add simple interest to the difference between what Miss W would have owed when 
she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.  
C. If  when NewDay works out what Miss W would have owed each month without the 
charges and fees  she paid more than enough to clear her balance, NewDay should 
also pay simple interest on the extra Miss W paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Miss W would have owed NewDay something on her 
credit card. The interest rate should be 8% simple a year.  
D. NewDay should tell Miss W what its done to work out A, B and C. NewDay should 
also remove any adverse information its recorded on Miss Ws credit file in relation 
to the credit card. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must 
give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I require NewDay Ltd to 
put things right for Miss W, as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 Nimish Patel
Ombudsman