DRN-3797178
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that when giving advice Quilter Financial Limited, trading as 
Unividual, (Quilter) had failed to pick up on their US residency status. Because of this they 
had to pay additional taxes. Mr and Mrs A would like the platform fees, charges, and costs 
for advice to be returned to them. They would also like to reserve the right to recover any tax 
liability that arises. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A became clients of Quilter in 2015 and during the onboarding process gave it a 
copy of their driving licences and passports. Mrs As documents confirmed she was born in 
the US, but this was never picked up on by Quilter. 
This has resulted in large costs to Mr and Mrs A  they have had to employ a US/UK 
registered tax consultant, will be liable to more tax and potentially Mr A may now be 
impacted because of the advice they received as a married couple. Mrs A has learned her 
ISAs and SIPP are not tax shielded in the US and will attract the highest level of capital 
gains tax.  
Mr and Mrs A invested via a platform which has now no longer able to support                     
Mr and Mrs As accounts as its not licenced to provide financial advice to US persons. This 
has proved has been very onerous and stressful for Mr and Mrs A  for Mrs A in particular, it 
has impacted on her mental health and ability to work. 
Mr and Mrs A raised a complaint with Quilter in 2021. In Quilters conclusions to the 
complaint it said;
The adviser had confirmed to Mr and Mrs A the importance of the duty of disclosure 
and that his advice was reliant on the information given to him. 
Mr A in particular had raised questions about taxation and Mr and Mrs A were 
informed the adviser couldnt advise on personal taxation. 
Up until 2021 Mrs A had confirmed she was a UK resident and domiciled in the UK 
with no other tax positions of consideration. 
The US finance act referred to  the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) 
came into force on or after 30 June 2014 and required US citizens to report and pay 
tax in the US on overseas investments. 
The ISA applications completed in 2015, 2016 and 2017 confirmed Mrs A wasnt a 
US national, not resident in the US and not subject to US tax reporting. 
Mr and Mrs A were advised in 2018 to contact an accountant for any advice on 
personal tax returns. 
It accepted that when Mrs A completed the relevant forms, which gave incorrect 
information, this was based on a genuine misunderstanding of the US tax reporting 
requirements. 
The passport and driving licence confirmed Mrs A was born in the US but the adviser 
was not a fault that he failed to realise that meant Mrs A had a potential US tax 
obligation. It was the responsibility of the client to check their own tax status. 
Financial advisers arent tax experts and arent expected to have a sound knowledge 
of rules and systems outside of the UK. 
Mrs A advised that she had filled in FATCA forms for other financial businesses and 
it was confirmed that her US citizenship was not of relevance to her banking/tax 
status in the UK. 
Mrs A had invested previously with a UK business and if subsequent advice hadnt 
been given by Quilter those funds would still have been liable for tax and Mrs A 
would be in the same position in any event. 
Mrs A had believed she wasnt a US citizen  she had an Irish passport and was UK 
domiciled. Her adviser wouldnt have been aware of her US status. There was no 
contractual or regulatory obligation on Quilters part to provide Mrs A with tax advice 
or suggest she speak with a US tax adviser. 
Mr and Mrs A werent satisfied with the outcome and brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said;
Quilter had advised at various times that it wasnt a tax specialist and recommended 
Mr and Mrs A contact an accountant for tax advice on their personal circumstances.
Mrs A had told Quilter she was domiciled and resident in the UK and had reiterated 
this when Quilters compliance department had raised this with her.
Mrs A had told Quilter she had completed FATCA forms for other financial 
businesses and that IRS rules didnt apply to her. 
Quilter had put them in touch with an accountant for Mr As personal taxation upon 
selling his business. Tax around US citizenship was complicated, and it would have 
been reasonable for Quilter to have assumed Mrs A had investigated whether she 
was impacted by the FATCA rules.
Mr and Mrs A were already invested in ISA and SIPP wrappers when they first met 
Quilter, albeit being topped up upon its advice.
Mrs A presented as a UK resident and was advised accordingly.
The onus was on Mrs A to ensure the information she gave Quilter was correct. As 
she was born in the US it was Mrs As responsibility to have flagged this was a 
potential issue. It was likely it would have investigated this further if it had known.
She couldnt find that Quilter had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs A responded with additional comment and disagreeing with investigator;
It was Quilter who alerted Mrs A to the situation otherwise she still wouldnt have 
known. It advertised itself as an expert financial adviser. Its compliance for 
onboarding wasnt robust enough. 
Mrs A had misunderstood the impact her place of birth had. She questioned how it 
was her exclusive responsibility to have known about FATCA. Quilter is a financial 
institution and had an obligation to comply with the legislation. 
Mrs A is a lay person who paid Quilter for professional financial advice.
It was because Quilter traded so actively on her account that she ended up with such 
an onerous reporting burden for US tax purposes. The money that had been used to top up the ISAs came from the sale of her 
husbands assets and shouldnt have been used as it ended up attracting US tax. 
Our investigator confirmed that by trading on Mrs As account Quilter had done so on the 
assumption Mrs A was a UK citizen so it had acted as it should have done. It hadnt been 
disclosed that Mrs A was a US citizen and Quilter had done nothing wrong in accepting this 
information. Quilter werent tax experts and relied on the information that Mrs A had given. 
When Quilter raised the issue with Mrs A, she confirmed she was not a US citizen. It had 
advised it wasnt a tax expert.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with the outcome and provided further comment. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
As background FATCA came into effect on 1 July 2014 after being enacted by Congress in 
2010. It sought to eliminate tax evasion. It impacted on Mrs A as she was born in the US 
despite leaving the US as a young child  a so called accidental American. 
Its clear that Mrs A didnt know that her place of birth in the US would have implications for 
tax purposes. She has said that she wasnt aware of FATCA and has questioned that as a 
lay person how she would have known. 
I wont reiterate all of the dates here which Ive outlined above, but from the beginning of  
Mrs As relationship with Quilter, and throughout, she confirmed that she was UK domiciled 
and a UK tax resident. And that she wasnt a US National, Resident, or subject to US tax 
reporting and should be treated as a UK person for tax purposes. So, Im satisfied that was 
the information that was given to Quilter and that it relied upon.
I think the crux of this complaint is whether Quilter should have done more in light of this. 
Mrs A has said that Quilters onboarding process was not robust enough. It had been given 
Mrs A driving licence and passport at the outset of the relationship which both identified her 
place of birth. So, Ive considered why a business  such as Quilter  asks for this 
information at the outset of a relationship with a customer. 
Essentially these are required so that the business can prove the customer is who they say 
they are. Financial businesses are required by law to check the identity of anyone who wants 
to open an account or buy a financial product or service. Its one of the procedures 
businesses have to undertake under Money Laundering Regulations to prevent financial 
criminal activity. So, their primary use is for identification purposes to help with anti-money 
laundering issues.  
And I dont think those documents  their purpose being for the identification of the customer 
 would lend themselves to being used for any other purpose in the onboarding process, 
such as identifying the potential tax implications of the customer carrying out investment 
activity because of advice given by the business. Mrs A may feel that the use of those documents could be extended. But taxation is personal 
to the customer. It is not for the business to know or assume a customers tax position based 
on documents which are ultimately given to it for identification clarification purposes. 
I would expect a UK financial adviser to understand the UK tax implications of investments 
for a customer. As a result, the business can advise on products that help with UK tax 
mitigation  ISAs and SIPPs and similar  but in order to do that it needs to be fully aware of 
the customers tax position. And in this case, Im satisfied that Quilter wasnt fully made 
aware of Mrs As personal tax status based upon the information that she gave it. 
But Mrs A has said she doesnt agree that the onus of being aware of FATCA and how that 
impacts her is solely her responsibility. However, in the particular circumstances of this case 
I think that it is. 
Mrs A went to Quilter for its investment expertise  and which would include investments 
such as SIPPs and ISAs for tax purposes. She did not go to Quilter for its tax expertise.  
Quilter didnt present itself as a tax adviser or specialist. And it reminded Mrs A of this at the 
outset and during her relationship with the business. So, as it didnt present itself as a tax 
adviser or specialist, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect it to have provided 
such a service and gone on to question the tax status of Mrs A based on the information she 
had given it. 
Mrs A has said that because of the activity on her account with Quilter, this has made the 
returns she needs to make for US tax purposes much more onerous and costly. But as I 
havent found that Quilter wasnt wrong in the assumption her tax status as provided by her 
was correct, then I dont agree that activity on her account was out of line with that. The 
investment actively carried out was based on the assumption that the information it had been 
given was correct. 
The key question is whether Quilter clearly did something wrong, either by failing to adhere 
to its regulatory responsibilities or by breaching its general duty of care. Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence to indicate that it failed either of these tests. It asked for the driving 
licence and passport as required by law for the purposes of identification. Those documents 
werent required or used for any other purpose, so I dont agree it failed in its duty of care in 
not extrapolating information given in those documents to the tax status or Mrs A. So, I cant 
therefore reasonably make it responsible for the financial consequences for Mrs A being 
subject to US tax.
I do appreciate that Mrs A has suffered financially and personally because of what has 
happened to her. It has understandably had a significant impact on Mrs As life and caused 
her lots of worry and has required a lot of her time to try and resolve the position. I have 
empathy for the position she finds herself in. 
But taking all of the above into account, and in the particular circumstances of this complaint, 
I dont find its one that I can uphold. I havent been given sufficient evidence to show that it 
was for Quilter to have been aware of Mrs As status as an accidental American based on 
the information that it had or sought. 
Undoubtedly Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed with the outcome that I have reached but I 
hope I have been able to explain how and why I have reached that conclusion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman