DRN-4096389
The complaint
Miss L complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited, who Ill call MotoNovo.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss L, but I dont think MotoNovo have been unreasonable here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss L acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss L. The car here was about 
seven years old and had already completed 96,600 miles. So, I think its likely to have been 
suffering from quite a bit of wear and tear and that it wouldnt be fault free as would perhaps 
be the case with a new car.
Miss L had some problems with the vehicle in the first six months. The oil and windscreen 
wash levels were low when she took receipt of the car, a seat pad needed replacing and 
some tyres needed changing, potentially because there was misalignment.
I think all of those issues were likely to be the result of reasonable wear and tear on a car of 
this age and mileage. If the tyres were not road legal when the car was supplied I would 
think the business should put things right for Miss L. But the MOT simply advised some of 
them were nearing their wear limit. I dont think any of these issues would suggest the car 
wasnt of the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
the age and mileage of this car when supplied.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when MotoNovo were responsible for the cars 
quality. But, as Miss L has identified, if the fault is reported after six months it is usually the 
consumers responsibility to demonstrate the fault was present or developing when the car 
was supplied.
Miss L has explained she has had several issues with the car more recently. A crankshaft oil 
seal was replaced, a tyre pressure warning has illuminated, the coolant has needed to be 
topped up, and Miss L has more recently informed us about problems with the boot and a 
suspension arm that has needed replacing. Ive not been provided with any expert evidence 
to suggest these faults were developing when the car was supplied and, given that the car 
has completed over 100,000 miles, I think they should fairly be considered to be the result of 
wear and tear.
Ive also seen photographs showing numerous fault codes but, again, I havent been 
provided with an expert, independent opinion to suggest these faults are active and were 
developing when the car was supplied.
Overall, I dont think the evidence Ive been provided with would suggest this car has been of 
unsatisfactory quality and Im not asking MotoNovo to take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman