DRN-3799378
The complaint
Mr M complains that London & Colonial Services Limited trading as London & Colonial 
(London & Colonial) took too long to transfer his pension plan to another provider. During the 
delay the price of the new investments he wished to make increased causing him a loss. He 
wants compensation for his losses and the inconvenience caused.
What happened
Mr M is represented in his complaint by his financial adviser (Q). Mr M wanted to transfer 
part of his plan from London & Colonial to another provider, Aegon. Q was advising him on 
this and says it instructed Aegon to contact London & Colonial via an electronic transfer 
platform called Origo on 18 September 2020. And request that London & Colonial realise all 
liquid assets and then transfer the funds to Mr Ms plan with Aegon.
Q says with no updates it chased London & Colonial. It has provided an email from London 
& Colonial dated 7 October 2020, where it says it no longer uses Origo and cant accept 
transfer requests on it. Q emailed London & Colonial on 3 November 2020 querying whether 
transfer requests had been received by it for several clients including Mr M. Q has also 
provided an email of the same day from London & Colonial to Aegon saying it would require 
paper transfer out forms to be completed. On 5 November 2020, Q emailed Aegon saying:
We submitted this case 3 months ago and only now do L&C  send you back the 
forms required now they dont have Origo.
On 9 November 2020 London & Colonial responded to Qs email of 3 November 2020 to 
advise a transfer request for Mr M had not been received. Paper transfer applications were 
then completed for Mr M, which London & Colonial says it received on 27 November 2020. 
Q says it chased progress in January 2021. London & Colonial transferred the funds to 
Aegon on 11 February 2021.
Q complained to London & Colonial on Mr Ms behalf about the delay. It accepted there had 
been delays for which it apologised. It said once it received the transfer request it should 
have been completed within twelve working days. It said it would reimburse the full transfer 
out fee of £186 direct to Mr M as compensation and asked for his bank details.
Q referred Mr Ms complaint to our service. In a submission accompanying this Mr M said 
London & Colonials offer of £186 compensation took no account of either his or Qs time in 
sorting out the problem and bringing the complaint. He said had the transfer been made in 
September 2020, when requested, the new investments purchased by Aegon would have 
been at a much lower price. He said had London & Colonial completed the transfer in 30 
working days (from 18 September 2020) he would have been £2,006.31 better off compared 
to when Aegon actually purchased the investments on 16 February 2021.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and she decided to uphold it.
She asked London & Colonial when it stopped using Origo and if it had advised customers 
about this. It said it stopped using Origo on 16 July 2020 and hadnt advised customers, as it 
wasnt required to. It said it wouldnt have been aware of any request made through Origo 
after then. It also said the process for an Origo, or paper-based transfer was the same.
Our investigator said it was important for customers to know how to action transfers. And 
had Q and Mr M known that paper forms were required they would have gone down that 
route initially so the transfer could proceed as soon as possible, so this had caused several 
weeks delay.
She said London & Colonial should take account of any financial loss Mr M had suffered as 
a result of the delays as well as refunding the £186 fee. She said it should conduct a loss 
calculation from the date Q was informed transfers werent accepted by Origo, 7 October 
2020.
London & Colonial disagreed and made a number of points:
the assumption that the main contributing factor in the delays was it not telling Mr M, 
Q and Aegon that it no longer used Origo was wholly incorrect and unreasonable.
it had ceased using Origo in July 2020 and said it was Aegons responsibility to 
inform Q/Mr M that the transfer couldnt be processed through Origo. As Aegon 
would be aware that London & Colonial was not a party using the system and would 
have received a bounce back notification.
it accepted it had caused a delay in not processing the transfer in a timely manner 
after it received the paper application on 27 November 2020, but it wasnt 
responsible for delays before that.
it said once it received the paper application it should have made the transfer by 10 
December 2020, and the loss calculation should be from this date to 11 February 
2021 when it transferred the funds to Aegon, not from 7 October 2020 suggested by 
our investigator.
As London & Colonial doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 12 October 2022; I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning to uphold the complaint, but think the loss calculation should 
be based on a different time frame than proposed by our investigator.
I think London & Colonial caused delays, and I think it should carry out a calculation to 
establish if this caused a loss for Mr M. But at this stage I dont think its fair to say it was 
responsible for any delays before 27 November 2020. Ill explain why.
Our investigator thought it fair that London & Colonial should make it clear how it processed 
transfers. And as it had confirmed to Q it no longer used Origo by email on 7 October 2020 it 
was fair that London & Colonial be responsible for any delays after that.
However, it is the receiving arrangement that initiates a transfer request rather than the 
holding or ceding arrangement. I think establishing the ceding schemes requirements is a 
normal part of that. So, I dont think it is necessarily fair to hold the ceding arrangement 
responsible for delays before it has received a valid transfer request. I also thought the 
evidence provided by both Q and London & Colonial was incomplete. So, I asked both, and 
Aegon as the receiving scheme, for further information.Origo is a data exchange system which reduces the paperwork required to complete a 
transfer between one pension provider to another. Many, but not all, pension providers use it 
and there is no requirement that it be used. London & Colonial says it stopped using the 
system around two months before Q says it emailed Aegon the transfer authority signed by 
Mr M and asked that this be submitted via Origo.
It wasnt clear to me how such a request could have been made if London & Colonial were 
no longer party to the system and hadnt been for two months. So, I asked Aegon to confirm 
when the Origo request had been made and whether this was successful or rejected.
Aegon said as the receiving scheme it would initiate any Origo request and having checked 
its files it said it:
cant find any evidence we requested a transfer in by Origo.
And:
In this case, the only prompting we received was the Transfer Authority form we 
received on 23/11/20, which prompted us to send a transfer request to the ceding 
provider by email on the 27/11/20.
It isnt clear why an Origo request wasnt attempted and I think further consideration of this is 
outside the scope of this complaint about London & Colonial.
It is the receiving scheme which initiates a transfer, this involves contacting the ceding 
scheme. If there was no instruction to make an Origo request the transfer wasnt initiated 
until documents were emailed to London & Colonial on 27 November 2020, I dont think it is 
reasonable to hold London & Colonial for what happened before then.
I havent seen any evidence that queries were raised with either London & Colonial or Aegon 
about Mr Ms transfer before 3 November 2020. London & Colonial responded to this 
request for an update on 9 November 2020, so within a few working days, confirming it 
hadnt received a transfer request for Mr M.
Q has provided redacted extracts of earlier emails between it and London & Colonial and 
between Aegon and London & Colonial. But it isnt clear these relate to Mr M. The email 
from London & Colonial to Q of 7 October 2020 advising it no longer uses Origo doesnt 
identify Mr M, although there would be no reason to redact it if it did. And Aegon says that 
the email to it from London & Colonial dated 3 November 2020 appears to be about another 
customer.
So, taking this evidence together I dont think it is fair to hold London & Colonial for any 
delays before 27 November 2020. However, I do think there were avoidable delays after it 
received the application.
London & Colonial has said its timeframe to realise the investments (held with an external 
third party) and then complete the transfer to Aegon should have been ten working days. I 
think this is a reasonable timeframe.
London & Colonial accepts it didnt meet this and is responsible for the delays until it did 
transfer the funds to Aegon on 11 February 2021, which became available for investment 
three working days later on 16 February 2021. London & Colonial has apologised for the 
delay, which it says was due to staff shortages and backlogs due to Covid working from 
home requirements.I think its reasonable that the transfer should have been completed by 10 December 2020 
(within 10 working days after receiving the request on 27 November). Had it, it would have 
been available for re-investment three working days later, the 15 December 2020. So, 
around two months before it was actually re-invested. This delay may have caused Mr M an 
investment loss. If it has, then it is fair that he should be compensated for this, to put him 
back in the position he would have been in had the delays not occurred.
Putting things right 
I think London & Colonial should undertake a calculation to establish what Mr Ms transfer 
value would have been on 10 December 2020.
London & Colonial should then calculate what this transfer value would be worth had the 
transfer completed and then been reinvested by Aegon on 15 December 2020 in the same 
investments as the actual transfer value was. It should compare this value to the actual 
value of the Aegon SIPP when the complaint is settled.
Allowance should be made to take account of any contributions paid into the Aegon plan or 
benefits taken from it since the date of transfer.
If there is a loss, London & Colonial should pay into Mr Ms Aegon pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If London & Colonial is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr M wont 
be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
If Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction 
would equal 20%. However, if Mr M would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 
15%.
If either London & Colonial or Mr M dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must 
let us know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified, and Mr M receives 
appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this assumption once any 
final decision has been issued on the complaint.
London & Colonial should provide details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear and simple 
format.
London & Colonial has already offered to pay Mr M £186 in compensation for the delay, this 
being its normal transfer out administration fee. I think this is fair compensation for the 
inconvenience caused in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or comments they would like me to 
consider.Response to provisional decision
Q didnt respond to my provisional decision.
London & Colonial said it accepted my provisional decision and that it had begun work on 
the loss calculations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that a transfer application was made to London & 
Colonial before Aegon forwarded it application forms by email on 27 November 2020. So, 
London & Colonial isnt responsible for any delays before then. But I think it did cause delays 
in processing the transfer once it had received the application.
I think London & Colonials estimated timeframe to process a transfer of this type of ten 
working days is a reasonable one. It accepts it didnt meet this and caused a delay of around 
two months before funds were transferred to Aegon and available for re-investment. This 
may have resulted in an investment loss for Mr M and if so, its fair that London & Colonial 
should put him back in the position he should have been in. 
Putting things right
London & Colonial should undertake a calculation to establish what Mr Ms transfer value 
would have been on 10 December 2020 when the transfer should have been completed.
London & Colonial should then calculate what this transfer value would be worth had the 
transfer completed and then been reinvested by Aegon on 15 December 2020 in the same 
investments as the actual transfer value was. It should compare this value to the actual 
value of the Aegon SIPP at the date of this final decision.
Allowance should be made to take account of any contributions paid into the Aegon plan or 
benefits taken from it since the date of transfer.
If there is a loss, London & Colonial should pay into Mr Ms Aegon pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If London & Colonial is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr M wont 
be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.If Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction 
would equal 20%. However, if Mr M would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 
15%.
London & Colonial should provide details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear and simple 
format.
London & Colonial should pay the £186 compensation for the delay it has already offered, 
which I think is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against London & Colonial Services Limited.
I direct London & Colonial Services Limited to undertake the loss calculation set out above 
and pay any compensation due.
I direct London & Colonial to pay Mr M the £186 compensation for the delay it has already 
offered if it hasnt already done so. I think this is fair compensation for the inconvenience 
caused in the circumstances of this complaint.
London & Colonial Services Limited must pay compensation for any loss within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
If London & Colonial Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell how much its taken off. It 
should also give a certificate showing this if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman