DRN-3836504
The complaint
Mr N complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
unfairly declined a claim under his business protection insurance policy.
What happened
Since 2003, Mr N has held business protection insurance with NFU in relation to his farm. In 
2019, he received a letter of claim about a batch of seed potatoes hed sold which were 
found to be contaminated. So he made a claim to NFU.
NFU declined the claim. It said Mr N had only declared that hes a farmer, and this didnt 
incorporate the business activity of growing seed potatoes. It said that had Mr N disclosed 
this activity, an additional premium wouldve been charged.
Mr N wasnt happy and raised a complaint. He said hed spoken to NFU every year before 
renewing his policy and his business activities had never changed. In fact, he says the 
growing of seed potatoes is the vast majority of his business and hes unsure how NFU 
hadnt known that. He says NFU are the insurance experts, and he cant be expected, as a 
layperson, to know how his insurance policy should be worded.
The legal claim against Mr N was settled by the insurer of another party in the supply chain. 
But he anticipates that, in time, this party will pursue action against him to recover their loss. 
And he wants assurances that hell be covered.
The complaint was brought to our service and considered by one of our investigators. He 
said that under the applicable law  the Insurance Act 2015  Mr N had a duty to make a fair 
presentation of the risk. Our investigator didnt think hed done so and considered this to be 
a careless misrepresentation.
As NFU wouldve still provided cover, but for an additional premium, our investigator said the 
remedy available under the law is to pay the claim on a proportionate basis. So should the 
legal claim against Mr N materialise, NFU should cover the proportion of it provided that it 
met the remaining policy terms and conditions.
NFU didnt agree with our investigator. It said it hadnt alleged a misrepresentation and didnt 
think our service could say there was one without it considering so first. It also said we cant 
make a finding on hypothetical / future events.
Mr N also didnt agree. He didnt think hed made a misrepresentation and said that it wasnt 
reasonable to expect him to know a specific part of his business wasnt insured.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me and in November 2022, I issued 
the following provisional decision.
My provisional decision
Since the complaint has been passed to me, NFU has told our service that the policy 
extension Mr N wouldve required in order to be covered for this claim wasnt available until 
2011. It says that Mr Ns business doesnt fall within its annual review framework for 
discussions to take place. As such, Mr N wouldnt have known this policy extension was 
available.
Mr N has now added the extension to his policy from 2020. But this wont cover the claim 
from 2019. So NFU has said that should Mr N need cover for this claim, it is prepared to 
apply the policy extension retrospectively for the 2019 policy period, on receipt of the 
premium for that year.
Ive considered whether this is a fair offer in the circumstances, and Im satisfied it is. Im 
persuaded that had Mr N been offered this policy extension previously, he wouldve taken it 
out and paid the premium to ensure his business activities were covered. So the offer from 
NFU puts him back in the position he wouldve been in had he been given details of the 
cover available to him.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr N hasnt responded to my provisional decision and the deadline for doing so has now 
passed.
NFU has accepted what Ive said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct The National Farmers' 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to apply the policy extension for seed potato 
growing to Mr Ns policy retrospectively for the policy period covering 2019, on receipt of 
payment from Mr N for the policy premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman