DRN-1958701
The complaint
Mrs E and Mrs M are directors of a limited company that Ill refer to as E. Theyve 
complained on behalf of E that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company unfairly turned 
down a claim on their legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs E and Mrs M bought their policy with DAS in March 2018. In March 2019 they claimed 
on their policy. They wanted DAS to cover the fees for them to pursue a professional 
negligence claim, as they thought their accountant had given them incorrect advice about 
the need for E to be VAT registered when it became a limited company in 2011. Mrs E and 
Mrs M said theyd only found out they should have been VAT registered in February 2019 
when a firm of consultants, who theyd started working with on a project, pointed it out. As a 
result of this they said they registered for VAT straight away and contacted HM Revenue & 
Customs to let them know what had happened.
DAS said the policy excluded claims where the date of occurrence was before the policy 
started. And as the alleged negligence had taken place in 2011, that was before the policy 
started in 2018. So, DAS turned down the claim.
Mrs E and Mrs M didnt agree with DAS decision and brought their complaint to us. DAS 
maintained it had turned down the claim correctly. It said the policy also excludes cover for 
any contract dispute arising from an agreement entered into prior to the inception date of the 
indemnity provided, if the date of occurrence is within the first 90 days of cover.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 June 2020 where I explained why I 
didn't think DAS had done anything wrong. In that decision I said:
The terms and conditions of Es policy says DAS will provide cover for insured incidents 
where the date of occurrence of the incident happens during the period of insurance. The 
policy defines date of occurrence as when the cause of action first accrued.
There doesn't seem to be any dispute that the alleged negligent advice was first given in 
2011. And whilst it can be said that the cause of action first accrued in 2019, when the 
negligence itself was discovered, I think the fairer interpretation is that the cause of action 
first accrued when the advice itself was given. That was before the insurance was in place, 
so I dont think DAS acted unfairly by turning down the claim.
Mrs E and Mrs M have provided information to show that we sometimes think it's fair to use 
the date the policyholder knew about the event as the date of occurrence. We have taken 
the view that was fair in some cases but generally only where a customer had continuous 
legal expenses insurance cover in place, both when the cause of action started, and when 
the issue was discovered. Thats not the case here. E didnt have cover in place when the 
cause of action first accrued - only when the negligence was discovered. So I dont think this 
applies to Es complaint.I understand Mrs E and Mrs M's frustration, as they clearly didn't know about the negligent 
advice until recently and they acted very quickly once they did. But I don't think it would 
produce a fair and reasonable outcome in this particular case if I required DAS to pay a 
claim that wasn't covered by the policy. For that reason I'm not going to interfere with DAS' 
decision to turn down E's claim.
DAS accepted my provisional decision. Mrs M and Mrs E said they had no further evidence 
to provide, but reiterated that the claim came to light when the policy was in force. They also 
didn't think it was fair that their claim wasn't covered when they'd held legal expenses cover 
for a number of years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not going to depart from my provisional findings.
I don't doubt that Mrs M and Mrs E only knew they'd need to make a claim in 2019. 
However, their policy only covers claims where the date of occurrence of the incident was 
during the period of insurance. Given the policy's definition of the date of occurrence, I still 
think the fairest interpretation means that date was in 2011 and E didn't have a policy 
providing this cover at that time.
I appreciate E has held cover for a number of years. But I don't think I can fairly require DAS 
to pay their claim, as E didn't hold a policy at the time they received the allegedly negligent 
advice. I'm sorry to disappoint Mrs M and Mrs E but I'm not upholding their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman