DRN-1595304
 
The complaint
Ms P complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) is unable to tell her 
what her pending account transactions are when she calls it.
What happened
Ms P says she has asked M&S on a number of occasions for her correct account balance 
and to know whet her pending transactions are. She says the information is important to be 
able to balance her finances. But says M&S says it's unable to tell the exact figures as it can 
take some days for transactions to appear on its systems. Ms P says M&S ought to be able 
to provide the information and the delay is unacceptable. 
M&S says some transactions can take a few days to be visible on a customer's account 
such as a contactless payment. It says it has tried to help Ms P and that she can use online 
banking and a digital application (app) to check her account. It also says that Ms P could 
keep a record of spending and it's not responsible for pre authorisation payments.
Ms P brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought we are not the regulator of M&S and so couldn't tell it to change its systems. She 
thought M&S had fairly explained that some transactions may not be recorded on its 
systems for a few days and thought the onus was on Ms P to monitor her spending.
Ms P doesn't accept that view and says M&S ought to have been able to provide her with 
the account information she asked 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Ms P feels very strongly 
about this issue and that she will be disappointed by my decision.
The investigator has explained that we are not the regulator of banks and building societies. 
So I can't fairly tell M&S what systems it should use to record transactions or how it records 
such transactions and when on a customers account. 
I'm satisfied that M&S has fairly explained that some transactions such as contactless or a 
pre-authorised transaction can take a few days to appear on a customers account. I'm also 
satisfied that those are matters outside of M&S's control and for example it wouldn't know 
how much a pre-authorised transaction would be for.
Ms P has online account access and has access to M&S's app. So I think she ought to be 
able to keep a record of spending which she can use with the app and the online access to 
calculate her exact balance. I also think that Ms P is responsible for her account and 
spending and that M&S has explained which type of transaction can be delayed.I'm also satisfied that M&S has fairly explained its position and has tried to help Ms P 
including going through her transactions when she called. In those circumstances I can't 
fairly require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint and don't think 
M&S has made a mistake or acted unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman