DRN-3720696
The complaint
Mrs D has complained Lloyds Bank plc wont refund numerous online transactions she didnt 
make.
Mr D, Mrs Ds son, is representing her in her complaint.
What happened
Mrs D holds an account with Lloyds. Shes had fraud claims previously settled by Lloyds 
when use of her debit card was made online for gaming purchases. Mrs D increasingly has 
memory loss issues. Lloyds is aware of her vulnerability.
In April 2021 Mr D complained, on his mothers behalf, about numerous online transactions 
made using her card details from December 2020 to February 2021. Lloyds refused to 
refund the money as they believed theyd given appropriate education to Mrs D previously 
when other fraud claims of a similar nature had been made.
Our investigator noted that Mrs D accepted shed given her debit card details to a relative to 
purchase a game. Lloyds had blocked an initial four payments made to gaming companies 
on 16 December 2020. Our investigator believed Lloyds should have contacted Mrs D at that 
stage as her account history showed the potential for concern. She asked them to refund the 
disputed transactions except those that a gaming company had refunded on 1 February 
2021.
Lloyds disagreed. This complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Lloyds and 
Mrs D. Ive also noted what our investigator has said in her views and response to Lloyds.
Were the transactions authorised?
The regulations which are relevant to Mrs Ds complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves.
The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mrs D can be treated as 
acting with apparent authority when making transactions on their account.
Authority consists of two elements. The transactions must be authenticated, and Mrs D 
needs to have consented to the payments being made.
Im satisfied the payments were authenticated from the information provided to us by Lloyds. 
In other words, Mrs Ds genuine card details were used to make them.
Turning to consent, all the evidence shows a relative of Mrs D used her card details to make 
in-game purchases. Mrs D doesnt dispute providing her card details first off and authorising 
at least an initial transaction. 
Our investigator suggested Mrs D provided apparent authority to her relative to make the 
transactions. Apparent authority can be withdrawn or annulled by the payment service user 
(Mrs D in this context). In this case I believe it can be argued Mrs D withdrew her authority. I 
say this bearing in mind what had happened previously on her account. Mrs D had 
previously disputed chains of transactions on her account.
And this is why I also believe Lloyds should have acted sooner. Theyve confirmed they 
provided additional education to Mrs D previously  although I dont know the nature of this  
and there have been at least three earlier instances of fraud on Mrs Ds account. And Lloyds 
was aware of Mrs Ds vulnerability.
There was a clear opportunity for Lloyds to have acted after they blocked four initial 
transactions on 16 December 2020. They didnt block Mrs Ds card details which could have 
resulted in her confirming these were disputed transactions. Lloyds accept they have a 
responsibility to protect customers from fraudulent use as far as that is feasible. I believe 
they should have done more and if so, further transactions could have been avoided.
Putting things right
Lloyds will need to repay all disputed transactions to Mrs D from 16 December 2020 
onwards. They will also need to add 8% simple interest a year from that date.
Mr D has confirmed one of the gaming companies refunded sums on 1 February 2021. 
Lloyds do not need to refund that amount.
As Lloyds failed to protect Mrs Ds account, I think it is fair and reasonable they pay her £75 
for the trouble caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Lloyds Bank plc to:
Refund disputed transactions from Mrs Ds account from 16 December 2020 
onwards, except those refunded on 1 February 2021; 
Add 8% simple interest a year to those amounts from the date of debiting to the date 
of settlement; and
Pay Mrs D £75 for the trouble caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman