DRN-4298836
The complaint
Mr W is complaining about the way monthly payments were taken which resulted in Acorn 
Insurance & Financial Services Ltd cancelling his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W took out a car insurance policy through Acorn  a broker. The insurance provider 
required him to pay an annual premium and Mr W needed to pay this at the start of the 
policy. Mr W wanted to pay for the policy through monthly instalments. To enable him to do 
so, he took out a finance agreement with a third-party finance provider  who I shall refer to 
as G. G paid the annual premium on Mr Ws behalf and Mr W agreed in return to repay this 
in line with the terms of the finance agreement.
Mr W entered into a number of payment arrangements with G but a number of payments 
werent taken. On one instance, this resulted in his insurance policy being cancelled. Mr W 
says this has caused him a significant amount of distress and inconvenience. He also said 
hed lost money because hed not been able to work due to the policys cancellation or threat 
of cancellation.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Mr Ws complaint in a lot less 
detail than he has presented it. Mr W has raised a number of reasons about why hes 
unhappy with the way Acorn has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and every 
point hes raised but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to 
think about. I dont mean any discourtesy by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service. I assure Mr W, however, that I have read and considered everything hes 
provided.
I need to set out that, in this decision, I can only consider Acorns action. Acorn acted as an 
insurance broker in this matter. Its primary responsibility was to arrange and administer the 
contract of insurance. Mr W also entered into a separate contract with G to finance the 
annual premium. It was Gs responsibility  as the finance provider  to consider Mr Ws 
ability to keep up with his monthly finance payments. It was also Gs responsibility to assist 
Mr W if he came into financial difficulties and couldnt keep up with his monthly payments.
 
I can see that a lot of things have gone wrong in the way Mr Ws payments were collected. 
But, as I said, I can only consider Acorns actions in this decision. It appears that G was 
responsible for collecting the payments  not Acorn. I can also see that it seems to have 
been Gs decision to cancel Mr Ws insurance policy. And I cant hold Acorn responsible for 
anything G did or did not do.
I acknowledge that there were instances that Acorn wrote to Mr W chasing payment for 
amounts outstanding on the finance. But, regardless of the reason why the payments 
werent taken, Mr W did owe this money, so I cant say it was unreasonable for Acorn to 
chase payment. It does also seem that it cancelled the insurance policy, but it did so on Gs 
instructions. I havent seen anything to show that Acorn has treated Mr W unfairly.
I acknowledge that Mr W has experienced a lot of distress and inconvenience over the 
course of the insurance policy and finance agreement. But it seems to me that Mr Ws 
concerns primarily rest with regards to the actions of G. If Mr W is unhappy with anything G 
did or did not do, hell need to raise that with G directly. Overall, I havent seen anything to 
show that Acorn has caused Mr W any avoidable distress and inconvenience. 
Acorn responded to say it didnt have anything further to add. Mr W didnt respond to my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything else to think about, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I dont uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman