DRN-4086090
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly declined his travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr B took out a travel insurance policy to cover his trip abroad in 2022. The policy was 
underwritten by Aviva.
At the end of his trip, Mr B travelled to the airport to take his flight home but was unable to 
obtain his boarding pass from the automated machine. He sought help from the airport staff, 
who looked into the situation and said that his tickets had been suspended and he was 
therefore denied boarding. Mr B had to purchase a new ticket to come home on the next 
available flight, but that wasnt for two days. Mr B had to pay for hotel accommodation and 
incurred other additional expenses while he waited for his flight.
Mr B made a claim to Aviva for his ticket and additional expenses, but the claim was refused. 
Aviva said that the circumstances of the claim fell outside the policy terms.
Unhappy with this response, Mr B complained to Aviva and brought the complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She found that Avivas decision to decline the claim was reasonable, based on the 
policy coverage.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr B. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Mr Bs claim relates to additional travel and accommodation expenses incurred when he was 
denied boarding on his return flight to the UK. The reason given for this was that his ticket 
had been suspended - Mr B says there isnt a definite reason known for the suspension.
Aviva has said there is no cover under the policy for the circumstances which caused Mr Bs 
claim. It has referred to the travel disruption section of the policy and the part relating to 
alternative travel arrangements which states the following:
We'll pay additional travel and accommodation costs if you have to make alternative 
travel arrangements to reach your destination or home on the return journey if:
1. Your pre-booked transport from or to the UK is cancelled or delayed for at least 12 
hours or diverted after take off; or
2. You're denied boarding because there are too many passengers for the seats 
available and no alternative flight can be provided within 12 hours; or
3. Your transport operator or accommodation provider becomes insolvent
Has the claim been declined fairly?
When looking at this section of the policy, I can see that cover is provided for additional 
travel and accommodation costs incurred to come home if this is caused by one of several 
listed reasons. From what Mr B has told us, he was refused boarding as the airline stated his 
ticket had been suspended. This is not one of the reasons detailed in the policy which Aviva 
provides cover for additional expenses following a missed flight. 
Mr B says the claim should be covered as his ticket was cancelled with no alternative 
available for over 12 hours and he was denied boarding. I appreciate his strength of feeling 
on this matter, but Im not persuaded by this argument. The policy makes it clear the 
transport needs to be cancelled or delayed  from what I understand the flight left as 
expected so this wasnt cancelled  rather Mr B wasnt allowed to travel. And in relation to 
being denied boarding, this would only be covered if the flight was overbooked. I havent 
seen evidence to show this was the reason for the suspension. Im therefore satisfied that 
the decision by Aviva to refuse the claim under this section is fair and reasonable.
Ive also looked at the remainder of the policy wording to see if there are any other sections 
which would consider Mr Bs claim, but the circumstance he found himself in doesnt appear 
to fall within any of the other sections of cover provided. Taking everything into account, I 
dont think Mr Bs claim is covered under the policy terms and conditions, nor are there 
reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for me to ask Aviva to accept this claim. Im 
therefore not persuaded that Aviva needs to do anything more.
Mr B has commented that travel insurance is taken out to provide cover for unforeseen 
events (he has provided information from a website detailing this) and as this is what 
happened in his case, he should be covered. Mr B has incurred expenses for events that 
were outside his control and not known about until he arrived at the airport, so this was 
unforeseen. However, it is important to note that insurers are entitled to decide what risks 
they will accept (in return for the relevant premium). The events they will and wont cover just 
need to be clearly set out in the terms and conditions of the policy. And Im satisfied that 
Aviva has clearly set out the reasons it will accept cover for travel disruption in the policy 
terms provided to Mr B. So, this point doesnt make a difference to my outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman