DRN-2333757
The complaint
Miss E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt correctly updated her credit file and has 
unfairly registered a default two years after it should have.
What happened
Miss E says she got into financial difficulties in 2017 but since 2018 has been making 
payments towards her HSBC debt. She says she has checked her credit file and says the 
outstanding balance hasnt been reducing as it should and that all of the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs) are reporting incorrect information. Miss E says this incorrect information 
has affected her credit score and has caused her stress. She would like compensation for 
whats taken place and says its unfair that HSBC has registered a default on her credit file in 
2020 when the default took place in 2018.
HSBC says its not made a mistake about the information it has reported to the CRAs and 
has provided information about the payments it received from Miss E. It says it registered a 
default on its systems in 2018 following notice of the default being given to Miss E, but 
accepts it didnt register it with the CRAs.
Miss E brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought there was always a delay in the CRAs reporting account information and thought it 
more likely the default would have affected Miss Es credit score. The investigator thought 
HSBC had a duty to report accurate information to the CRAs and fairly recorded the account 
was satisfied but was obliged to register the default.
Miss E doesnt accept that view and maintains HSBCs actions are unfair when it sent her 
the default notice in 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss E will be disappointed with my decision.
I have looked at HSBCs records and Im satisfied it told Miss E in 2018 that her account 
would default and that would be reported to the CRAs. I dont think there is any dispute that 
the default notice was sent as Miss E has told us that she received it. It is not clear why 
HSBC didnt register the default with the CRAs in 2018 but I also think Miss E has benefited 
from that mistake. Im satisfied that HSBC is obliged to accurately report the position of its 
customers accounts to the CRAs and so I dont think it made a mistake by now reporting the 
default to the CRAs.
I have looked at Miss Es credit file and HSBCs records. Having done so Im satisfied that 
the default has been correctly backdated to 2018 and that HSBC has correctly reported the 
account as satisfied. So, I dont think HSBC has made a mistake or acted unfairly by doing 
so and has accurately reported the account position.
I appreciate that the HSBC account balance on Miss Es credit file is not as clear as it could 
be. I cant be sure why that is the case or which party is responsible for that information. But 
I accept that there is always a delay in the CRAs being able to update a credit file and in any 
event, I have explained that Miss E would have benefited from the default not being 
registered on her credit file as it should have from 2018.
Overall, I accept HSBC ought to have registered the default in 2018 but I dont find that it 
made a mistake by backdating it on Miss Es credit file. I also dont think that mistake justifies 
compensation for the reasons I have explained, that Miss E would have benefited from that 
mistake. I accept there may have been a delay in updating Miss Es credit file to reflect her 
payments, but I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for that and I dont think in any event that 
would have had any real affect on her or on her credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman