DRN-4393243
The complaint
Mr B complains that RAC Financial Services Limited (RAC) didnt renew his European 
Rescue & Recovery policy which meant he wasnt covered when his car broke down.
What happened
Mr B had a rescue & recovery insurance policy through RAC. 
In 2021 he paid for his policy with a one-off credit card payment. In 2022 his policy was due 
for renewal on 22 September. 
In August 2022 RAC wrote to him, sending a copy of the policy wording for his cover. It said 
it hadnt sent him one before. Mr B also said there were two copies of the policy wording 
sent together.
Mr B said he also received his renewal documents on the same day, but in a separate 
envelope. Mr B thought his cover had renewed.
He went to Europe in summer 2023 and his car broke down in July. He called RAC to make 
a claim and was told he wasnt covered as his policy had expired.
He complained to RAC. It said it hadnt renewed Mr Bs policy as hed not contacted it. 
Because he hadnt got in touch, the 22-23 policy wasnt in force so there wasnt any cover 
for his claim.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into his complaint and thought it wouldnt be upheld. He said he thought RACs renewal 
document was clear and Mr B should have checked whether hed made payment for the 
policy or not.
Mr B didnt accept the view. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so its has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
RAC has sent this service copies of the documents it sent to Mr B in August 2022. I can see 
from those, and photos of the received letters, that at some point in the 2021-22 policy 
period, RAC realised itd made a mistake in how it had set up Mr Bs policy. Ive not seen 
evidence about how or what exactly had happened, but it seems to me that RAC realised Mr 
B might not have had his policy documents, so it sent another set. I think this is fair and 
reasonable.
Mr B has shown that he received two copies of the policy booklet. Im not sure why this 
happened, it may have been an error made by RAC. But I dont think that matters here and 
Ill continue to explain.
Around the same time, RAC sent its renewal invite. Mr B has sent his service a photo of part 
of the renewal invite, which refers to the cover he thought he had. But, importantly, this 
wasnt the front page of the renewal invitatoin and I can tell this because its not formatted in 
a way Id expect to see. RACs copy of the entire renewal document contains wording 
explicitly saying Mr B needs to call it to renew.
Mr B has said he only received this page of the renewal. Ive thought carefully about this and 
I think its more likely than not that it was part of the formal renewal offer document and on 
the evidence I have, I think RAC reasonably sent this pack of information to him.
In his approach to this service I can hear that Mr B says words to the effect of I assumed it 
had been renewed either on one of those rolling things or that Id phone a month earlier or 
something and forgot about it. I think these words are at the centre of this matter. 
Ive said above I think its reasonable that RAC did issue Mr B with his renewal documents. I 
also think its fair I say that those documents clearly said Mr B needed to call it to renew. Mr 
B, for whatever reason, then didnt call, and so his policy didnt renew.
Clearly the cover was important to Mr B and he needed it for his journeys in the UK and 
Europe. At any time, I think Mr B could have checked to see if hed paid for the cover, Or, if 
he was confused about the notices he received then he could have called RAC and checked 
with it the purpose of their correspondence with him. 
Mr B didnt take the opportunities to check any of this, and I cant reasonably say thats the 
fault of RAC.
Mr B has also talked about the possibility of a goodwill payment from RAC to help pay for his 
costs. A goodwill payment is a commercial decision made by a company and doesnt form 
part of an insurance claim, or fall under the jurisdiction of this service, so its not something 
Im able to comment on here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman