DRN-4234857
The complaint
Mrs C complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) provided her with loans without carrying out proportionate checks. 
What happened
Mrs C was granted four loans and Ive outlined her borrowing history in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 13/05/2022 08/06/2022 3 £90.44
2 £200.00 16/06/2022 24/08/2022 3 £88.51
3 £250.00 29/08/2022 27/12/2022 4 £99.93
4 £300.00 28/12/2022 outstanding 6 £94.03
MoneyBoat considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans because it had carried out proportionate checks which showed it Mrs C 
could afford them. Unhappy with this response, Mrs C referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, and in her latest assessment she partly 
upheld it. She didnt think MoneyBoat had done anything wrong when loans 1  3 were 
granted. However, she did uphold the complaint about loan 4 because she said MoneyBoat 
ought to have carried out further checks before it was granted. Had MoneyBoat carried out 
further checks it wouldve likely discovered Mrs C was spending a significant amount of 
money each month on betting transactions. 
MoneyBoat didnt fully agree with the outcome about loan 4 because it said there was no 
reason to have carried out further checks, there were no defaulted or delinquent accounts 
and the credit report showed an improvement in Mrs Cs financial position compared to 
previous loans. 
The adjudicator went back to MoneyBoat to explain why its comments hadnt changed her 
mind and as no agreement could be reached the case was passed for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mrs C could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mrs Cs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs C. These factors include:
Mrs C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs C. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Mrs Cs complaint and I agree, given the number of loans, loan terms and 
loan values. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mrs C could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs C was able to repay 
her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings, which included not upholding 
loans 1 - 3 and MoneyBoat has only commented about loan 4. In my view loans 1 - 3 are no 
longer in dispute so I wont be making a finding about them. Instead, this decision focuses 
on whether MoneyBoat did all it shouldve done before loan 4 was granted. 
Loan 4
Before the loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Mrs C for details of her income, which she 
declared as being £1,500 per month. MoneyBoat says the income figure was checked 
through a third-party report. 
Mrs C also declared monthly outgoings of £660. As part of the application, MoneyBoat used 
information from its credit search (which Ill come onto discuss below) and from the 
Common Finance Statement to adjust the declared expenditure Mrs C had provided. As a 
result, of this check, Mrs Cs monthly expenditure was increased by a further £190. Just from 
the income and expenditure checks, MoneyBoat wouldve been confident that 
Mrs C wouldve likely been able to afford his loan. 
Before the loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that 
although MoneyBoat carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do 
one, let alone one to a specific standard. The credit results showed that there were zero defaults on Mrs Cs credit file within the last 
three years. MoneyBoat also knew of 14 active accounts and that Mrs C had opened 9 new 
accounts within the preceding six months. 
The active accounts Mrs C had included a mail order account, six credit cards, a current 
account two telecommunication accounts and two unsecured loans all were up to date, 
within their credit limits and did not show any signs that Mrs C was struggling to repay them. 
However, there is some concerning information in as far as between June and December 
2022 Mrs C had repaid and closed 14 unsecured / advance against income loans (including 
the previously granted MoneyBoat loans). The sheer number of these settled in a short 
space of time  more than two per month on average and which were most likely either 
payday and / or instalment loans only adds to what Ive seen about the loan history to make 
me think further checks ought to have been carried out. 
So, I do think further checks ought to have been carried out before loan 4 was granted. This 
was now the fourth time Mrs C had taken a loan, it was also her largest capital loan to be 
repaid over the longest term. She had also shown a continued need to borrow from 
MoneyBoat because the gap between when she repaid a loan and returned for another had 
reduced each time, and she had only repaid loan three the day before this loan was granted. 
So, I do think, like the adjudicator that MoneyBoat ought to have done further, more in-depth 
checks before it approved loan four. These further checks couldve been done a number of 
ways, it couldve asked for evidence of Mrs Cs income, it couldve asked to see copy bills or 
copy bank statements.
Mrs C has provided copy bank statements from the time when loan four was advanced and 
so I think its entirely reasonable to consider these statements in order to see what 
MoneyBoat may have discovered had it made better checks. 
Had better checks been made, MoneyBoat wouldve likely discovered that Mrs C was 
spending significant sums on betting websites each month, in November 2022 she spent 
around £1,300 on such transactions and of course on top of this she had her regular living 
costs which I can see in her statements. 
During December 2022  and only for the period I have statements to  up to 
8 December 2022 Mrs C spent over £700 on such transactions. So clearly, had better 
checks been made MoneyBoat wouldve concluded Mrs C couldnt afford this loan. 
It therefore follows that I am upholding Mrs Cs complaint about loan four because further 
checks wouldve shown that Mrs C couldnt afford the repayments. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent loan four to Mrs C, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs C may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs C would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So, I am satisfied that MoneyBoat shouldnt have granted loan four. 
If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if MoneyBoat are able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If MoneyBoat cant buy the debt back then MoneyBoat 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 4, 
and treat any repayments made by Mrs C as though they had been repayments of 
the principal. If this results in Mrs C having made overpayments then MoneyBoat 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. 
B. If there is still an outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs C and I would remind MoneyBoat of its obligation 
to treat Mrs C fairly and with forbearance. MoneyBoat shouldnt pursue outstanding 
balances made up of principal MoneyBoat have already written-off.
C. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file in 
relation to loan 4.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am partly upholding Mrs Cs complaint.  
 
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Mrs C as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman