DRN-2372103
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that their mortgagee HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct 
unreasonably refused to permit them to let their house. This forced them to sell the house 
and incur an early repayment charge (ERC). This has also affected their tax position.
They say First Direct is trying to retrospectively apply a condition to the mortgage which was 
never present in the terms and conditions.
To resolve their complaint they consider First Direct should refund the ERC and discharge 
an additional tax liability.
What happened
In 2015 Mr and Mrs N took out a mortgage with First Direct against their house which they 
already owned and in which theyd lived since 2005. There was a ten-year fixed interest-rate 
product carrying an ERC.
They say that in February 2020 they decided to relocate and Mr N called First Direct to 
advise it that they would be renting out the house. First Direct said that they werent allowed 
to do that and that theyd have to redeem the mortgage and pay an ERC. However the 
mortgage terms and conditions dont say this.
When they complained, First Direct initially offered three months renting, which was later  
extended to two years. This was insufficient as they intended the move to be long-term. So 
they had to redeem the mortgage and pay the ERC. They say First Direct maintains it didnt 
sell them a buy to let mortgage. But they didnt buy the house in order to let it. It was their 
family home. 
If theyd known of a no-rental condition they wouldnt have taken out the 10 year product. 
They believe that First Direct is trying to retrospectively apply a term which wasnt a 
condition of the mortgage offer in the first place.
In reply to their complaint First Direct said it didnt offer buy-to-let mortgages. The application 
form said this. It was their decision to take out a ten year fixed rate, and then rent out the 
house before the end of the fixed period.
Unhappy with First Directs response, Mr and Mrs N referred the complaint to us and one of 
our investigators looked into it. But she didnt recommend it be upheld. The mortgage 
application said:
"First Direct does not allow mortgages on buy to let properties, that is, properties you have
purchased for investment purposes, however, if your personal circumstances change in the
future which require you to let your property for a period of time, then you must obtain our
written consent prior to entering into any tenancy agreement".
The investigator said this meant that Mr and Mrs N couldnt let the house without First 
Directs permission. It was a residential mortgage. It wasnt designed for properties which 
were let. Mr and Mrs N had also stated in the application that the house would be their main 
residence and that they werent buying it to let.
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. They said it 
wasnt acceptable for First Direct to have omitted such an important stipulation from its terms
and conditions. They accepted that they did need the written consent of First Direct to let the 
house. But there was no indication that this might be refused or limited. Theyd answered the 
questions truthfully. When they took the mortgage out, they had every intention of living in 
the house for the duration of the mortgage and beyond,.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs N werent buying the house in order to let it. They already owned it. But they 
confirmed in their mortgage application that it would be their main residence. Without that 
confirmation, theyd have had to get a more expensive buy-to-let mortgage. And it was a 
correct statement of their intention at the time.
But the mortgage application which Mr and Mrs N signed said that they must obtain First 
Directs written consent before letting.
Letting the house in order to move elsewhere required the permission of First Direct, which it 
was only prepared to give for two years. This is common for a residential mortgage and I 
agree with the investigator that First Direct hasnt done anything wrong here. 
Mr and Mrs N have put their case very well, but its implicit, in a requirement to obtain 
consent, that consent might be withheld or limited. Otherwise there would be no point in 
making the requirement. It would be sufficient to merely notify, as they did. And a change in 
circumstances which requires letting for a period of time isnt the same thing as moving 
away long-term.
I dont think anything turns on the fact that the restriction on letting was in the mortgage 
application rather than the terms and conditions. I can quite see that it would have been 
better for Mr and Mrs N if it had been in the terms and conditions, because thats what they 
chose to read. But in every mortgage there are four documents, the mortgage application, 
the mortgage offer, the terms and conditions and the legal charge. 
It might be said, I think, that it was reasonable to include this requirement in the application 
because its the first document which the customer sees. If it came later, that might also lead 
to complaints. I also suspect that the terms and conditions is the least likely to be read by 
most customers. So I dont consider First Direct has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Edward Callaghan
Ombudsman