DRN-3344564
The complaint
Mr P complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited caused additional damage to his car 
during an insurance claim. 
What happened
In May 2021 Mr Ps car was damaged in a collision with a third-party. So he claimed on his 
Admiral motor insurance policy. 
In June 2021 Mr P complained about delays with the claim. Admiral accepted it was 
responsible for some delay. It paid £260 compensation to recognise the impact on Mr P.
In July 2021 Admirals repairer returned Mr Ps car to him. He complained to the insurer the 
car had additional damage to its rear bumper. He felt marks, scratches and paint chips had 
been made by Admirals recovery agent. In response it said the bumper damage wasnt 
related to the incident, the recovery or its repairer. It didnt agree to cover the cost of 
repairing the bumper. In December 2021 Admiral responded to a complaint from Mr P about 
being charged a policy excess for the repairs. It said he had been charged in line with the 
terms of his policy. 
To resolve his complaint Mr P wants Admiral to cover the cost of repairing the bumper, a 
refund of the excess and liability for the collision to be settled 
 
In January 2022 our investigator considered Mr Ps complaint. She didnt think Admiral had 
done anything wrong by requiring payment of the excess. She said it had taken reasonable 
steps regarding the issue of liability. She felt £260 was fair compensation for the delays 
Admiral caused at the start of the claim. The investigator thought the damage to the bumper 
probably did happen when the car was with Admirals agent. So she recommended it cover 
the cost of the relevant repairs.  
Mr P didnt say if he accepted the assessment. Admiral disputed it was responsible for the 
damage to the bumper, so didnt agree to cover the repair costs. As a result the complaint 
was passed to me.  
In March 2022 I issued a provisional decision. It forms part of this final decision, so Ive 
copied it in below. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require Admiral to cover the cost of 
repairing the disputed damage or to do anything differently. I also invited Mr P and Admiral 
to provide any further information for me to consider before issuing a final decision. 
However, neither party did so.
what Ive provisionally decided and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having considered everything, I 
dont intend to require Admiral to cover the cost of repairs to the bumper. For me to 
say it should do that, Id need to be persuaded the relevant damage probably 
happened in the collision - or was caused by one of Admirals agents during the 
claim. 
However, Im not currently persuaded of either. For that Id need to think the marks 
and chips werent already there before the incident. But so far, I havent seen enough 
to persuade me of that.  
The relevant damage is some small scuffs or chips to the cars rear bumper. These 
are shown in a photo taken after Mr P received the car back from Admirals repairer. 
There are some photos from 22 June 2021. Thats before the repairer worked on the 
car. The relevant area looks to have been cleaned, in comparison to other earlier 
photos I refer to below. One of the photos is clear enough to show the marks. So Im 
satisfied the repairer wasnt responsible  and that the damage happened at some 
point before its involvement. Considering the location of the cars contact with the 
third-party vehicle the chips seem unlikely to be directly caused by the collision. 
That only leaves Admirals recovery agent to consider. Mr Ps provided photos of his 
car taken before the incident. The chips and marks dont appear to be present. But 
according to Mr P these photos were taken at some point in 2020. So Im persuaded 
the damage wasnt there at a point between about 5 and 17 months before the 
incident. But Id need to be persuaded it didnt already exist immediately before the 
recovery agents involvement. Because of the time scales these photos are of limited 
value for that.   
Theres a photo of the car taken immediately after the incident  so about a month 
before the recovery agents involvement. It isnt of sufficient quality to understand if 
the marks and chips are there. The relevant area is quite dirty, so they could be 
hidden or masked. There are blemishes on the photos that might be the damage, I 
cant say either way. The same can be said of a photo taken a few weeks after the 
collision, but before the recovery agents involvement. The area is still dirty. 
Mr P insists the damage wasnt there before. But considering the photos it seems 
possible it was, but he didnt notice it until the repairer cleaned the car.   
Ive considered Mr Ps comments about Admirals recovery agent causing the 
damage by collecting the car without its keys. I accept its possible it was responsible. 
But so far, for the reasons given above, I havent seen enough to persuade me the 
damage didnt already exist before the recovery agents involvement. So I cant fairly 
find Admiral to be responsible for it. That means I dont intend to require it to cover 
the cost of any repairs.      
Neither do I intend to ask it to reimburse the policy excess. The policy terms say an 
excess is applicable for any claim. An excess is often treated by insurers as an 
uninsured loss, something not covered by the policy. Admirals explained that Mr P 
will, if the third-party is found liable, be able to reclaim the excess from their insurer. I 
cant say its acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
At points Mr Ps expressed dissatisfaction with the progress of the claim. Admiral 
accepted it caused some delay early on. This was related to some confusion about 
the car being incorrectly considered a total loss. Admiral took reasonable steps to 
recognise the impact of this by paying £260 compensation. Mr Ps also asked for 
liability for the incident to be settled. Admirals explained the steps its taken to 
progress that. Unfortunately the third partys insurance broker wasnt cooperative, 
delaying progress. But I cant say that was Admirals fault. Based on what Ive seen so far, its taken reasonable steps to settle the claim with 
the third-party insurer. Beyond the initial problem I cant say its responsible for any 
significant unnecessary delay. 
So I dont intend to require Admiral to cover the cost of repairing the disputed 
damage or to do anything differently. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I didnt receive any further information or comments in response to the provisional 
decision, I dont see any reason to change my position on the complaint. So for the reasons 
set out in the provisional decision I dont require Admiral to cover the cost of repairing the 
disputed damage or to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to cover 
the cost of repairing the disputed damage or to do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman