DRN-3157076
The complaint
Mr J complains about a duplicate payment caused by Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
Mr J says he tried to make an international payment on 26 May 2021 but was logged out of 
online banking. He says he logged back into online banking and made the payment, but the 
earlier payment had also been made. Mr J would like one of the payments refunded and 
says Lloyds was responsible.
Lloyds says Mr J made the first payment on 26 May 2021 but was timed out of online 
banking. It says it sent Mr J an email confirming the payment had been made and that he 
ought to have checked his account balance before making the second transaction. Lloyds 
says it tried to recall the payment but couldnt. It says it wasnt responsible for what took 
place.
Mr J brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it wasnt Lloyds fault Mr J was logged out of online banking and he ought to have 
checked if the first payment had gone through before attempting the second. The 
investigator also thought Lloyds had sent an e-mail and that Mr J ought to have checked the 
account balance before attempting the second payment.
Mr J says it was Lloyds error that led to him being logged out and it should have told him to 
check if any payments had been successful before attempting again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr J will be disappointed by my decision.
It is not clear why Mr J was logged out of the online banking. Lloyds says Mr J was timed out 
and Mr J says it was Lloyds error. I think it likely on balance that Mr J was timed out as 
Lloyds records say that is what took place. But in any event, I dont think that matters. Im 
satisfied that Mr J must have made and authorised the payment before he was logged out as 
the payment was successfully made. And I would reasonably have expected Mr J to have 
checked the position before making the second payment. I think that had Mr J checked the 
position he would have seen either the e-mail from Lloyds or noted that the payment had left 
his account.
I find that it was Mr Js decision to make both payments and Lloyds had no involvement in 
either decision. It follows that I dont think Lloyds made a mistake or acted unfairly and so I 
cant order it to refund one of the payments.
I appreciate Mr J says Lloyds should warn customers in these circumstances to check if a 
payment had been successfully made before attempting another. I dont think Lloyds is 
required to do so or could know that, as in this case, Mr J was unaware the first payment 
was successfully made.
Overall, I think this was Mr Js decision to make the payment twice and that Lloyds provided 
him with enough information in the form of an e-mail and from his account balance that the 
first payment had been successfully made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman