DRN-3142682
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy with what TSB Bank plc (TSB) has agreed to do to put things right after he 
complained it irresponsibly allowed him to continue using an overdraft after hed already got 
in contact to explain he was vulnerable and in financial difficulty.
  
Background and my provisional decision of 18 October 2021
TSB agreed with Mr Ds complaint. It agreed to remove all of the interest fees and charges it 
added to Mr Ds overdraft after he had got in touch in April 2018. Mr D didnt think this went 
far enough and referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ds complaint was then considered by one of our adjudicators. And she thought that what 
TSB had done to put things right for Mr D was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the complaint. Mr D disagreed and so the case was passed to an ombudsman.   
On 18 October 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr Ds 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did something wrong, 
wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that wrong 
hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a consumer in the 
position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt have. However, 
thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced were advanced 
because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it 
should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the 
position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. TSB said it did this 
here, albeit it took three attempts to do so. So, on the face of things, it looked like TSB had 
done what I would expect a lender to do in these circumstances.
That said, we look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while we 
have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case. So I went on 
to consider whether there was a strong enough reason for me to tell TSB to do something 
different here.
It wasnt in dispute that Mr D visited his TSB branch with his mother in April 2018. During this 
meeting it was made clear to TSB that Mr D had lost his job, that he had a medical condition 
and that he was vulnerable. TSBs later notes appeared to have accepted that Mr D had no 
income and that Mr Ds mother repaid the outstanding balance on his overdraft. However, 
what did appear to be in dispute was that TSB said it agreed to place a marker on Mr Ds 
account preventing any further additional borrowing and Mr D said that he and his mother 
asked for the overdraft to be removed completely.
I explained that I couldnt know for sure what exactly was agreed in relation to Mr Ds 
overdraft going forward. However, I didnt think that mattered too much here as it wasnt in 
dispute that Mr D had no income, was vulnerable and his mother had to repay what he owed 
in April 2018 because of this. 
So it seemed clear to me that Mr D was going to struggle to repay an overdraft, or credit, of 
any description and not just any possible limit increases. In these circumstances, and having 
been told Mr D had no income, I questioned how and why TSB thought it was appropriate to 
only place a marker against any further overdraft limit increases, rather than removing the 
overdraft completely.
In my view, by not removing the overdraft completely, even if this may not have been exactly 
what had been asked for, TSB ran the risk a vulnerable customer (as it identified Mr D was) 
could run up a debt he wouldnt be able to pay and which could cause significant financial 
hardship. As that risk had now materialised and Mr D had been left with a debt that he was 
unlikely to be able to repay without experiencing significant hardship, I didnt think that a 
refund of the interest, fees and charges added went far enough in this case. 
Given the circumstances and what I understood to be Mr Ds current financial position, I 
thought that the fair and reasonable thing for TSB to do here was to write off the entire 
outstanding balance remaining on the overdraft. So I told the parties that I was intending to 
issue a final decision which directed TSB to do this.
I then turned to Mr Ds credit file. I explained that wed typically expect a lender to remove 
any adverse information recorded about credit, from the borrowers credit file, where a 
complaint is upheld for irresponsible lending. However, I didnt think that doing this would be 
the fair and reasonable thing to do here given what I was asking TSB to do in terms of            
Mr Ds overdraft balance. 
I explained that the basis for Mr Ds complaint was and is that he was a vulnerable consumer 
who couldnt manage credit and that his difficulties were made worse by TSBs failure to 
remove his overdraft in April 2018. I accepted this was the case and this had played a large 
part in my intended decision to uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
I thought that it would be unfair and unreasonable in its logic for me to reach this finding in 
relation to the balance owed, but then depart from it in terms of Mr Ds credit file going 
forward. In these circumstances, it seemed to me removing adverse information from Mr Ds 
credit file, increasing the chances of him being able to borrow further would be 
counterproductive and arguably not in his best interests, or those of any potential lender. 
So I thought that it was fair and reasonable for TSB to reflect what I was intending to tell it to 
do in relation to the outstanding balance and record it wrote off a balance on this overdraft 
on Mr Ds credit file.
All of this left me intending to issue a final decision telling TSB that it needed to write off the 
outstanding balance on Mr Ds overdraft and that it could and should reflect it had done this 
on Mr Ds credit file.
TSBs response to my provisional decision   TSB didnt respond to my provisional decision or provide anything further for me to think 
about.
Mr Ds response to my provisional decision
Mr D responded to confirm that he accepted my provisional decision and that he had nothing 
further to add.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision set out in some detail why I was intending to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint and tell TSB to write off the outstanding balance on Mr Ds overdraft. And as 
neither party has provided anything further or challenged my findings, Ive not been 
persuaded to alter my conclusions on this matter. 
So Im still upholding Mr Ds complaint and TSB needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what TSB needs to do to put things right for Mr D
Having thought about everything provided I think that TSB needs to do the following to put 
things right on this case:
Write off the outstanding balance on Mr Ds overdraft; and 
TSB can and should record that it wrote off an outstanding balance on this overdraft 
on Mr Ds credit file. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision of 18 October 2021, Im 
upholding Mr Ds complaint. TSB Bank plc should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman