DRN-3009148
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited dealt with a claim he made on his
buildings insurance policy.
Any reference I make to Ageas also includes its agents.
  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 4 August 2021. I planned on coming to a 
different outcome to our investigator, so I wanted to give both parties the opportunity to 
respond with anything else theyd like me to consider before I issued my final decision on the 
matter. Both parties have now responded. 
I have copied my provisional decision below  which also forms part of this final decision.
What happened
In March 2018, Mr M contacted Ageas to report a flood that had happened at the insured
property. The flood happened after a water pipe had burst at the property  causing
significant damage. Ageas appointed a loss adjuster to assess the damage and get works
underway.
Mr M tells us that during the claims process there have been significant delays in getting
things done. Initially, he says there were big delays in getting the property emptied of its
contents and then dried out.
The delays in the property being emptied and dried inevitably caused delays to the works
being carried out. There were also issues with the contents part of the claim being paid 
and then Ageas stating that they may repudiate the claim based on a typing error in its policy
documents.
Mr M initially made a complaint to Ageas on 29 September 2018. In this complaint to Ageas
Mr M complained about how long it had taken for the property to be emptied and dried. At
the point of this complaint he says this still hadnt been done and as a result, this has
delayed him being able to get builders in to quote for repair works.
On 12 November 2018, Ageas responded to Mr Ms complaint. In summary, it said it agreed
with Mr M that there had at times been unnecessary delays relating to the work being carried
out on the property. It sent Mr M a cheque for £250 in recognition of the delays. And it said
that Mr M had six months from the date of the letter to refer the complaint to this service if he
wasnt happy.
After it sent this final response letter, Mr M tells us that more delays occurred. And he wasnt
happy with the overall service from Ageas. In August 2019, Ageas told Mr M that it might
repudiate the claim based on an error in dates in its policy documents  this caused
significant distress to Mr M. He says that these things impacted on him financially and
emotionally and he has lost out as a result. Because of this, he complained again in 2019.
On 12 September 2019, Ageas responded to Mr Ms complaint and looked at the service it
had provided him with since he last made his complaint in 2018. Again, it agreed that the
level of service it had provided during the claim, and the length of time taken to finalise the
payment of the claim hadnt been to the standard it would have expected and offered Mr M
an additional £250. This letter also explained that if Mr M remained unhappy then hed have
six months from the date of the letter to refer the complaint to this service.
On 10 February 2020, this service received a complaint from Mr M. In summary, hes
complained about the length of time it has taken to finalise the claim. Hes also explained
that as a result of the delays, he has lost out financially. Mr M says that he has had to pay
extra costs in council tax and insurance while it has been vacant  and has had to pay more
than he should have as a result of the delays caused by Ageas. And he says he should
receive 8% simple interest of the delayed payments relating to both the buildings and
contents cover.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. He explained that this service wouldnt be able
to look into the issues he raised with Ageas in 2018, as this part of his complaint had been
made outside of the time limits that apply. I issued a decision on this part of Mr Ms
complaint and explained why this service couldnt consider any of the issues that were
raised and dealt with in Ageass final response letter from November 2018. But I explained
that this service could look into Mr Ms complaint about the things that happened after this
date. I have summarised these below:
Ageas repudiating the claim
Further delays
When our investigator looked into the merits of Mr Ms complaint, he found that Ageas
should do more to resolve matters. He thought Ageas should refund Mr M the council tax
payments he made between July and August 2019. This is because he found that Ageas
had unnecessarily delayed things in this time, and so Mr M had lost out on these payments.
But the investigator explained why he didnt think Mr M ought to receive 8% simple interest
on the delayed claim pay-outs. And he explained why he thought the £250 compensation
already offered by Ageas was fair.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator. I have summarised his main points below:
Mr M would like an apology from the person who initially decided that the claim
should be repudiated. This situation caused him great distress.
He didnt agree that he shouldnt be due 8% simple interest on claim pay-out.
Mr M states that the council tax costs he has paid between April 2019 and February
2020 are entirely as a result of the delays caused by Ageas. He says that had the
delays not occurred he would have had the property repaired and sold before hed
have needed to pay council tax  which commenced again in April 2019.
Mr M also states that if Ageas had paid him when they should have, then he wouldnt
have needed to pay another years insurance premium.
He doesnt believe that the £250 Ageas has offered is fair. He says he was put
through months of stress as a result of the things he says Ageas has done wrong
and so he doesnt feel that £250 is enough to compensate him for this.
Because Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, it is my intention to
uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Firstly, Id like to make it clear that this provisional decision will only be considering Mr Ms
complaint about what happened since November 2018 when Ageas issued its initial final
response. I cant consider anything that happened before this.
It doesnt appear that theres any dispute relating to the facts of this case. For example, both
parties agree there have been delays in the claim being finalised. And Ageas agrees that it
told Mr M that it might not pay out on the claim. So, its left for me to decide if the £250 Ageas
has offered Mr M is a fair way to settle this complaint. And I dont currently think it is.
repudiation of the claim
Ive seen the internal communications between Ageas regarding the possible repudiation of
the claim. It has relied on a misprint in its policy documents to question whether it should
pay out on the claim - it later decided that it would still make a payment.
I dont think it was fair of Ageas to have discussed the repudiation of the claim with Mr M
until it was sure about what it was going to do. In addition to this, it ought to have thought
about this much sooner in the claims process than it did  the claim had been ongoing for
almost 18 months at this point. Discussing the repudiation of the claim has understandably
caused Mr M a lot of undue distress. I can only imagine how stressful it must be to get
towards the end of a long claims process, with a property that has significant damage to be
told that it might not pay out on the costs for repairs. Especially when Mr M has made every
effort to comply with the terms and conditions of the policy. I imagine the stress of the
possibility of the claim not being paid would have been substantial and significant  even if
only for a short period of time. I have considered the impact this has had on Mr M when
deciding what I think the appropriate compensation would be to settle this complaint.
delays in the claim being finalised
Since November 2018, there have clearly been delays in the claim being settled and
finalised. I understand Mr M has now received payment for both the contents and buildings
part of his claim, however he didnt get the full amount due until August 2019  and he first
submitted the claim in March 2018.
Ive looked at the timeline of events provided by Mr M, alongside the internal notes provided
by Ageas.
Looking at what happened with the payment for the contents cover, I can see that Ageas first
agreed this on 23 October 2018, but the payment wasnt received by Mr M until 8 December
2018. In this time, Mr M had to chase six times to get updates on what was happening.
There doesnt appear to be any real reason why the payment wasnt made quicker than it
was.
As I understand from what Mr M has told this service and the notes Ive seen from Ageas,
much of the delays in the claim being finalised started from the delays in the property being
emptied and dried out. Ageas responded to Mr Ms complaint about this in its final response
letter in November 2018, so I cant consider what happened here.
The drying of the property started in November 2018 and ended in January 2019  there
dont appear to be any further delays in the drying that happened after November 2018.Mr M got a quote for the repairs to the property in March 2019, he sent this to Ageas to
review at the start of April 2019 and Ageas confirmed that the repair quote seemed fair at the
start of May 2019. Ageas asked Mr M to get a copy of the pro-forma invoice so it could pay
the claim. Later in May, Mr Ms builder said he wouldnt be able to get a pro-forma invoice as
he wasnt guaranteed the job, and it was a high value job. So, Mr M went back to Ageas to
ask for a cash in lieu payment. There seems to be some back and forth after this date with
problems with getting a builder, but on 27 June 2019, the claims handler said they would
send the report to Ageas to release the payment. The payment was made at the end of
August 2019.
I dont think it would be fair to say that all of the delays in payment were down to Ageas. I
can see that once the drying had finished, there were some issues with Mr Ms builder and
getting a further quote for the works. But I do think that Ageas were responsible for the
delays from the end of June up until the payment was made in August  so a full two
months. Looking at the notes from both parties, I presume this delay was down to Ageas
intending to repudiate the claim.
I know Mr M doesnt feel that he should be responsible for the council tax payments he had
to make from April 2019. Or the insurance he needed to pay to cover the property. I have
thought about this point carefully, but I dont agree with Mr Ms comments in full. Ive already
said that I cant look at what happened before November 2018  so I cant consider the
delays that may have occurred then. But based on what Ive seen since November 2018, the
only delays that Ive found to be unnecessary are those that happened in July and August
2019, so Im in agreement with our investigator that Ageas should refund Mr M the council
tax he had to pay for these two months. Similarly, I also think Ageas should refund the
insurance premium he paid for these months too, as these are also costs Mr M incurred as a
result of these unnecessary delays.
I know Mr M thinks that had delays not occurred, then he would have been able to repair the
property and sell it before he was due to pay council tax or continue to pay the insurance
premiums, but I dont think I can fairly say this would be the case. Its not guaranteed that the
repair works would have gone to plan  and even if they did, I can see the damage caused
to Mr Ms property was substantial and so likely to take some time. Its also not guaranteed
that the property would have sold immediately, or even quickly. So, I dont think I could say
that if there hadnt been delays that Mr M wouldnt have had to pay these costs anyway.
I understand that Mr M was unhappy that our investigator didnt award 8% simple interest on
the claims pay-outs, but I wont be awarding this either. The 8% simple interest is to reflect
the time that a consumer has been out of pocket. And because Mr M hadnt made any
payments towards the cost of repairs before he received the pay out, I cant agree that he
has been out of pocket.
Putting things right
I do think Mr M has been financially impacted by some of the delays caused by Ageas, and
so I currently think Ageas should put things right for Mr M by doing what Ive said below:
Reimburse Mr M for the council tax payments he made in July and August 2019.
Reimburse Mr M for the pro-rata cost of insurance premiums he paid in July and 
August 2019.
Pay Mr M 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date Mr M paid them, until it
repays these amounts.
Ive also thought about an appropriate level of compensation for the distress andinconvenience caused for the things Ageas did wrong. I can see that Mr M has been
troubled by having to continually chase Ageas for payments for both the contents and the
buildings claims  I think that Ageas could have done more to keep him up to date. And Ive
also considered that it must have been very distressing for Mr M to be told that it might not
pay out on his claim 18 months after it was first made. With these things in mind, I currently
think that Ageas should pay Mr M an additional £250 on top of the £250 it has already
agreed to pay him.
Ageas responded to say that it agreed to pay Mr M an additional £250. It didnt comment on 
the other redress I thought it should pay, but as it hasnt said it doesnt agree, Ive assumed 
it has accepted this. 
Mr M responded to the provisional decision to say he would provide us with a full response 
later in that same day or the following day  but we didnt receive this. Our investigator 
chased Mr M for his comments again, but we didnt hear anything back. Because of this, Ive 
assumed he has nothing further to add.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Because neither party disagreed with the 
findings in my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from this. 
Putting things right
Ageas needs to put things right for Mr M by doing the following:
Reimburse Mr M for the council tax payments he made in July and August 2019 (if it 
hasnt already done so).
Reimburse Mr M for the pro-rata cost of insurance premiums he paid in July and 
August 2019.
Pay Mr M 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date Mr M paid them, until it
repays these amounts.
Pay Mr M an additional £250 for the trouble and upset 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I order Ageas Insurance Limited 
should put things right for Mr M by doing what  Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman