DRN-2174872
The complaint
Mr T says Western Circle Ltd  trading as Cashfloat - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans Cashfloat provided to Mr T between April and 
August 2018. Mr Ts borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken 
OutDate Repaid Type of Loan Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 03/04/2018 29/05/2018 Payday £500 £240.78
2 03/06/2018 20/06/2018 Payday £350 £170.71
3 24/06/2018 05/07/2018 Payday £500 £258.66
4 08/07/2018 17/07/2018 Payday £400 £189.74
5 03/08/2018 24/09/2018 Payday £400 £195.32
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ts complaint and thought loan 5 shouldnt have been 
given because proportionate checks would have shown Mr T was struggling to manage his 
money. Cashfloat disagreed and made the following points: 
Mr T had repaid his loans early and he hadnt contacted it to say he was struggling 
financially.
It explained why it believed it had done proportionate checks to ensure Mr T could 
afford the loans.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think 
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator thought Cashfloat had carried out proportionate checks for loans 1 to 4. Mr T 
didnt respond to the view. As there is no dispute with the adjudicators opinion about these 
loans, I wont be making any findings on them. 
Cashfloat says it carried out checks before it lent loan 5 to Mr T and the results of these 
checks didnt raise any concerns. But as this was Mr Ts fifth loan in four months, I think 
Cashfloat should have been looking to build a clearer picture about Mr Ts finances before 
lending him this loan. 
Had Cashfloat carried out proportionate checks before lending loan 5, its likely to have found 
that Mr T was borrowing from other short-term lenders. The repayments for these loans 
would have been increasing his monthly outgoings. He was also in a debt management plan. 
This behaviour was most likely an indication he was in a cycle of debt and was further 
borrowing to cover the hole that repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances. 
Ive noted Cashfloats comment about Mr T repaying his first four loans early and I dont 
necessarily agree with its conclusion that by repaying a loan early this means that someone 
was managing their money. Its equally possible that Mr T was juggling his finances by 
borrowing to pay off his short-term loans with Cashfloat or other short-term loan providers. 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 5 and Cashfloat should put things right.Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr T paid on loan 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 5 from Mr Ts credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must give      
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mr Ts complaint. Western Circle Ltd should put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman