DRN-2361238
The complaint
Mr S complains The Royal Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 2004 with a re-mortgage. 
Mr S extended his borrowing in 2005 and the PPI premium increased to cover the additional 
mortgage repayments. The policy provided cover for Mr S if he was off work because of 
accident or sickness. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
From the evidence Ive seen I dont think Royal Bank of Scotland recommended the policy to 
Mr S, so the key question I need to consider is:
- Did Royal Bank of Scotland give Mr S information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading in order to put him in a position where he could make an informed choice 
about the insurance he was buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr S is worse off as a 
result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not taking out the policy  
if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
I can see that Mr S has put time and effort into his complaint, and feels strongly about the 
way in which the policy was sold. Id like to assure him that Ive considered everything hes 
said, even if I dont make findings on every point hes raised in this final decision.
Mr S says he was told he had to take the PPI to get the loan he wanted, and that Royal Bank 
of Scotland didnt give him a proper choice about buying the cover. Mr S also says English 
isnt his first language, and he didnt understand what he was being told about the PPI. Ive 
noted everything Mr S has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr S and Royal 
Bank of Scotland when the policy was sold in 2004 and amended in 2005. Im also mindful 
that these events took place many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened 
can fade over time. In fact, Ive noted that in Mr Ss original complaint to this service, he said 
hadnt been aware of the PPI until hed done a PPI check. But in his latest submissions he 
says Royal Bank of Scotland put him under pressure to buy the cover, which suggests he 
knew the policy had been added to his account.
Mr S also mentions that some of the mortgage and PPI documents were not fully completed 
with signatures and dates. Ive looked carefully at the available documents from the relevant 
times. Im satisfied that Mr S signed a direct debit mandate for the PPI on 6 July 2004. 
It seems there was another mandate that he signed, but didnt date. Royal Bank of Scotland 
has explained that the direct debit in question didnt go ahead. I think its possible that when 
Mr S was arranging his further borrowing he changed his mind about the amount of cover he 
wanted, which might explain why that direct debit wasnt fully completed.
Royal Bank of Scotlands contact notes from September 2005 show that the bank received a 
further direct debit mandate from Mr S when he arranged further borrowing. The monthly 
amount of cover was increased by £80. Although a copy of that mandate hasnt been 
provided (which isnt surprising given the time thats passed), I think its unlikely the mandate 
couldve been properly arranged if Mr S hadnt completed it in line with the necessary 
requirements.
Ive also noted what Mr S has said about not being able to fully understand what he was 
being told about the PPI, because English isnt his first language. But Im mindful that the 
cover was taken out in connection with a mortgage, which is a significant financial 
commitment. The banks records also suggest after the 2004 mortgage was arranged, Mr S 
was in fairly regular contact with it about further borrowing. This suggests to me that on 
balance Mr S had a good understanding of financial products and how they worked. Keeping 
in mind his circumstances and the commitments he was undertaking, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for him not to accept anything that he didnt fully understand. So this point 
doesnt change my overall conclusions about the case.
The mortgage application form Mr S signed in 2004 included the following question:
Do you want Mortgage Repayments Protector?
The form was completed to show that Mr S did want the cover. I consider the form was filled 
in electronically by a bank adviser based on answers Mr S provided during a phone 
application. So Im satisfied Mr S wouldve realised he had a choice.
Without anything else to support what Mr S has told me, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Royal Bank of Scotland didnt give him a choice about buying the PPI. 
Im satisfied that it made Mr S aware the cover was optional and he chose to take it out. 
I cant be sure that the policy cost was made clear to Mr S before he agreed to buy it. But Mr 
S took out the policy knowing he would have to pay something for it. The policy was 
competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think its unlikely Mr S would have 
made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Mr S satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out. And his 
circumstances do not suggest he would have been caught by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits (such as those affecting people with pre-existing medical 
conditions). 
In summary, I think Mr S agreed to take out the cover, knowing he didnt have to. And given 
it provided broadly what I think he expected when he agreed to it, I dont think he would have 
made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if he had been better informed. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman