DRN-3316663
The complaint
Ms P complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aquacard (Aqua) failed to collect two payments
in line with the direct debit guarantee. Ms P also complains that Aqua changed her address
which meant statements werent received.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Aqua sent Ms P a statement on 15 July 2019 that said it would collect £319.28 on 1 August 
2019. But Aqua sent a follow up email 10 days later that said, following a refund, the direct 
debit amount it would collect would be £0. On 2 August 2019 Aqua took a payment of 
£174.12 by direct debit. Ms P has explained that she called Aqua about the payment and 
was told to claim it back via her bank. The payment was reversed a short time later.
In August 2020 Ms P requested a credit limit increase but it was declined. Ms P told Aqua 
she wanted to close her account and was told she would receive a closing statement in 
September 2020. But Ms Ps address had been changed on Aquas system. As a result of 
returned post, Aqua supressed further statements from being sent to Ms P.
On 2 October 2020 Aqua debited £364.80 from Ms P, the remaining balance owed on her 
credit card.
Ms P complained that Aqua had broken the direct debit guarantee by failing to give have the 
required notice of the payments it intended to take. Ms P also complained that Aqua had 
sent statements to the wrong address and was reporting incorrect information on her credit 
file.
Aqua offered Ms P £100 and apologised for the service provided. It didnt agree the direct 
debit guarantee had been broken. An investigator at this service looked into Ms Ps case and 
upheld it. As a result, Aqua agreed to correct the address details it held and ensure the 
credit reference agencies were updated. Aqua also agreed to pay Ms P £200 to apologise 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ms P asked to appeal and said she remained of the view that Aqua had broken the direct 
debit guarantee because it hadnt given notice of the payments it intended to take. As Ms P 
asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The direct debit guarantee says If there are changes to the amount, date or frequency of 
your Direct Debit the organisation will notify you (normally 10 working days) in advance of 
your account being debited or as otherwise agreed. Ms P has told us she believes the 
guarantee was broken on two occasions by Aqua.
I agree with Ms P that the August 2019 payment wasnt claimed in line with the direct debit 
guarantee. Ms P correctly says the guarantee requires businesses to provide notice of a 
change in payment. Aqua sent a statement on 15 July 2019 that gave the payment amount. 
Then followed up with an email around ten days later that confirmed the payment would 
actually be £0 because of refunds received to the credit card. But, instead, Aqua debited 
£174.12 on 2 August 2019. I can see no evidence that Aqua notified Ms P of the revised 
payment amount before it claimed it.
I also think its reasonable to note that Ms P clearly checked why the amount had been taken 
despite Aquas earlier email. Ms P was told to reclaim the payment via her bank. Ms P has 
confirmed she raised an indemnity claim with her bank and the funds were returned to her. 
Were an informal dispute resolution service and cant fine or punish a business for making a 
mistake. Any award I make is consumer focused. That means, Ill consider the impact of an 
error on the consumer and make what I feel is a fair award. So whilst I agree the payment 
wasnt claimed in line with the direct debit guarantee, I need to take into account how that 
impacted Ms P.
I understand Ms P was referred back to her bank to obtain a refund. But I dont think that 
was unreasonable. There is a direct debit indemnity process in place and the payment 
appears to have been refunded to Ms Ps bank the following day. I agree there wouldve 
been a degree of inconvenience in that Ms P had to raise the claim with her bank, but she 
hasnt told us about any other issues or losses that were caused as a result. Ive taken the 
level of inconvenience caused to Ms P into account when deciding how to resolve her 
complaint.
Aqua says its unclear how Ms Ps address was changed. Im satisfied Ms P didnt change it. 
I see no reason why someone would attempt to change their address if they hadnt moved. 
And I note the amendment was made at the time Ms P told Aqua she wanted to close her 
account. Im satisfied Aqua was most likely responsible for the error that meant Ms Ps 
address was changed.
Ms P has provided evidence that the incorrect address was recorded on her credit file  
although shes confirmed it didnt impact her score. Im pleased Aqua has now provided 
evidence the address has been corrected.
The address amendment had the knock-on effect of meaning Ms Ps statements were 
returned to Aqua undelivered. That, in turn, meant Aqua didnt send out further statements, 
including the information about her final direct debit payment. So, again, its arguable that Ms 
P didnt receive the correct notice of the intended direct debit payment before Aqua took it on 
2 October 2020.
Again, Ive considered how Aquas failure to send Ms P her last two statements impacted 
her. Ms P hasnt told us about a financial loss. And I think its fair to say Ms P wouldve been 
aware she had another payment to make as she continued to use her credit card until the 
last week of August 2020. But I agree with Ms P that the statement suppression caused by 
Aquas address error meant she didnt get prior warning of Aquas intention to take her final 
payment by direct debit on 2 October 2020. And its clear thats caused Ms P a reasonable 
level of trouble and upset, trying to get to the bottom of matters.
Whilst complaint handling in itself isnt a regulated activity, Ive also considered how long it 
took for Ms P to get some answers from Aqua. And its only because Ms P has provided 
copies of emails and information she holds that weve been able to get to the bottom of what happened. I think the way Aqua has investigated whats happened has unfairly impacted Ms 
P and caused further inconvenience.
Aqua has agreed to pay Ms P £200 but shes told us she doesnt agree that level of 
compensation is fair. I think Ms P is right. Whilst each of the issues raised mayve caused a 
minor degree of trouble, taken together Im satisfied Ms P has been put to a reasonable level 
of inconvenience. I also think its fair to note Aqua sent private information to the wrong 
address which led to Ms Ps statements not being posted. Aqua also recorded the wrong 
address on Ms Ps credit file. On two occasions, Aqua has made errors that mean Ms P 
didnt receive notice of the direct debit payment it intended to take. Im satisfied thats 
caused Ms P both distress and inconvenience that isnt reflected in a £200 payment.
Based on the information Ive seen, I intend to uphold Ms Ps complaint and direct Aqua to 
increase the award from £200 to £350. In my view, that figure more fairly reflects the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Ms P.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional points or comments they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Ms P responded and reconfirmed her view that 
Aqua had breached the direct debit guarantee. Ms P also said she would like me to specify 
the level of refund she received in July 2019, which was £466 and exceeded the following 
contractual monthly payment. 
Ms P also pointed out she hadnt received a final response from Aqua or an apology and that 
the £100 offer was made directly to the investigator. Ms P also asked for a written apology 
from Aqua in addition to the compensation I set out in my provisional decision.
Aqua confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Ms P for the level of detail given in her response to my provisional decision. I 
want to assure Ms P Ive read and considered everything provided by both parties in this 
case. If I dont specifically address each point made it isnt because I havent considered it. I 
have. Ive focused on what I think are the key issues in this case  an approach in line with 
the informal nature of this service. 
Ms P wanted me to confirm the refund she received on 17 July 2019 was £466 and 
exceeded the minimum payment Aqua intended to take. I can see thats the case. 
I can also see that the £100 offer was made directly to our investigator by Aqua to reflect the 
service provided and not in a final response. No final response was issued by Aqua and it 
hasnt specifically apologised beyond the offer of compensation made. I hope Ms P will 
accept my apologies that the provisional decision said Aqua had apologised. 
Ms P says she wants me to direct Aqua to send her a written apology. But I think its fair to 
say that any apology I direct a business to make is likely to lack the sincerity Ms P wants. 
But Ive taken the impact of Aquas actions on Ms P into account when deciding how to fairly 
resolve her case and agree the complaint shouldve been handled differently. 
Ms P has also pointed out the time taken to deal with her complaint after it was raised. I 
confirmed Id considered this in my provisional decision and explained it was one of the 
reasons Id decided to increase the award. Im satisfied the £350 I awarded in my provisional decision fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the way Aqua handled the issues raised. As a result, Im going to 
proceed on that basis and uphold Ms Ps complaint.  
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Ps complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aquacard to 
pay Ms P £350. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman