DRN-2412454
The complaint
Mr P complains about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) and the length of 
time it took to repair his van following a road traffic accident.
What happened
On 22 December 2019, Mr P was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident, where the third 
party admitted liability. So, Mr P contacted UKI to make a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
The following day, the third-party insurer (TPI) contacted Mr P and offered to provide him 
with a replacement vehicle. Within this, they explained that it was likely hed be liable for the 
cost of any replacement vehicle he received through his own insurer. Mr P spoke to UKI 
about this and they explained they would recover costs from the TPI but if the TPI 
challenged these costs, Mr P would need to assist them in their recovery. And this is 
something Mr P was reluctant to do.
On 30 December, the agents acting on behalf of UKI, who Ill refer to as D, inspected Mr 
Ps car and took photographs. They explained these photos would be used to ensure the 
required parts were available when Mr Ps van went in for repair. Mr Ps van went in for 
repair on 7 January 2020 and he was told the repair should take no more than seven days. 
Because of this, Mr P turned down the option of a replacement vehicle.
But the parts needed to repair Mr Ps van were on back order and this meant the van 
couldnt be repaired in the initially agreed time frame. So, Mr P asked UKI to provide him 
with a replacement vehicle. UKI agreed to do so and Mr P was provided with a small 
hatchback car through rental company E, in line with terms of his policy. But Mr P was 
unhappy with this as he used his van for work purposes and was afraid the car provided was 
too small to carry his equipment. UKI arranged for E to provide Mr P with a small hatchback 
van, but Mr P rejected this as he was worried about the financial implications and whether 
hed be liable for these costs.
The repairs were completed to Mr Ps van on 5 February and Mr P received his van the 
following day. But Mr P was unhappy with how long this had taken, so he raised a complaint.
Mr P was unhappy that the required parts werent ordered after pictures were taken on 30 
December. He explained he turned down a like for like replacement van as he only expected 
the repairs to take seven days. So, he was unhappy that it had taken longer. And he was 
also unhappy that the replacement car UKI provided wasnt fit for the purposes he required. 
He was also unhappy with the lack of updates D had provided him while they awaited parts 
to repair his van. So, he wanted UKI to compensate him for the inconvenience hed been 
caused.
UKI initially offer Mr P £70 to recognise the repairs hadnt been completed in the seven-day 
time frame theyd advised. But when Mr P said he was unhappy with this, they offered a 
further £100 to recognise the inconvenience hed been caused. They felt this was a fair offer 
as theyd agreed with E to provide a replacement van, but Mr P had chosen not to agree to 
this resolution. Mr P didnt think this was enough and wanted a total compensation amount 
of £500. As Mr P remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised thered been 
delays in repairing Mr Ps van. And she acknowledged the inconvenience this had caused. 
But she didnt think it was fair to hold UKI responsible for part delays that were out of their 
control. And she also acknowledged UKIs attempts to source a suitable replacement vehicle 
when Mr P made them aware the first one wasnt fit for purpose. Because of this, she 
thought the total compensation amount of £170 was a fair one and didnt think UKI needed 
to do anything more.
Mr P didnt agree. He didnt think this offer recognised UKIs decision to take his van in for 
repair when the parts hadnt been sourced. He didnt think UKI acted fairly when doing this 
as this left him without his van for an extended period. So, he maintained his stance that a 
total offer of £500 would be a fair resolution to his complaint. As Mr P didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this situation has caused Mr P. Ive no doubt it wouldve 
been inconvenient for him to have been without his van for a longer period than he expected. 
And this wouldve been made more frustrating when UKI gave him an expected length of 
time for the repairs to be completed. So, when this didnt happen, Mr P wouldve felt let 
down. And Id expect UKI to compensate Mr P for this inconvenience. But I must also 
consider the cause for the delays Mr P experienced and decide whether the delays resulted 
solely from an error UKI made. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive also had to consider the actions UKI took during the time Mr P was without his van and 
consider whether they took fair steps to minimise the inconvenience Mr P experienced. And I 
think the steps they took were fair in this instance. And Ill explain why.
Its important to note first of all that Mr Ps accident was categorised as a non-fault claim. 
Because of this, Mr P was provided the option to receive a like for like van through a third-
party company, who Ill refer to as A. Its common for insurers such as UKI to outsource 
non-fault claims such as this to other companies to manage. So, I cant say theyve done 
anything wrong by doing so.
And what would happen is A would recover their costs from the TPI. But, as the TPI 
explained, using this option wouldve meant Mr P entering into a credit hire agreement 
meaning hed be responsible for any costs that couldnt be recovered. And I appreciate Mr P 
didnt want to take on this responsibility and he instead made the claim through his own 
insurance policy held with UKI. So, Ive first considered whether UKI processed Mr Ps claim 
in line with the terms of this policy.
Ive seen that UKI offer a seven-day repair promise. And its not in dispute that UKI failed to 
meet that promise on this occasion. But Ive seen the terms of this promise which explain 
that the promise isnt a guarantee and where a repair cant be completed within this time UKI 
will pay you £10 a day until the job is done, up to £70. Mr P has confirmed hes received this £70. So, I dont think its fair for me to say UKI havent acted in line with the terms of 
their policy.
And in terms of the replacement vehicle they offer, the terms explain that the hire car the 
policy provides will be a small hatchback car or similar that is provided to you by the hire 
company on a temporary basis. This car should keep you mobile but may not be the same 
as your car in terms of its size, type, value or status. Mr P was provided a small hatchback 
car, so he received a hire car in line with the terms of his policy. And Ive seen when Mr P 
complained about this, UKI arranged with E to provide Mr P with a small hatchback van so 
he could use it for work purposes. But Mr P turned this option down. This was Mr Ps own 
choice to do so and, while I understand his reservations regarding the costs, it wouldnt be 
fair for me to hold UKI responsible for this. I think UKI supplied Mr P with a hire car in line 
with the terms of the policy and took reasonable steps to assist Mr P when this wasnt 
suitable. So, I dont think they need do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
So, Ive then focused on the delays to Mr Ps van, and the impact this had. Mr Ps main 
concern revolves around UKI taking his van in for repair when the parts hadnt been ordered. 
Im aware D obtained photographs on 30 December to provide to the assessor in order to 
minimise part delays. And I cant see that any parts were ordered for the repair until Mr Ps 
van had been collected and taken to the garage. Although I understand the assessor was 
unable to use the images to see clear what parts were needed, I can understand why Mr P 
would be frustrated that photos were taken and then not used effectively. 
That being said, Ive seen parts were ordered the day after Mr Ps van was taken in for 
repair. And D have confirmed parts are usually available the day after theyre ordered. So, if 
there wasnt a back order for the parts Mr Ps van required, I think its likely the parts 
wouldve been received, and the repairs completed within the seven day promise UKI offer. 
In this situation, the delay was caused by the availability of the parts. And I dont think UKI or 
D were able to control this. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold them responsible 
for the length of time the repairs took to complete.
So, Ive thought about whether UKI shouldve delayed taking Mr Ps van in for repair until the 
parts had been received. And I dont think they should. Its important to note Mr Ps van 
hadnt been inspected fully before it was taken into the garage in January 2020. Although 
photos were taken, there may have been further damage present. So, if UKI delayed taking 
the car in for repair until the initial parts were ordered, this may have contributed to further 
delays if more parts were. I understand this wouldnt have been the case in this situation, but 
I dont think UKI couldve reasonably predicted that at the time. Nor do I think they couldve 
predicted the delays with the necessary parts at the time. So, I dont think they did anything 
wrong when taking Mr Ps van in for repair when they did.
Even so, UKI have offered Mr P £100 to recognise the inconvenience he suffered being 
without his own van for an extended period of time. And because of the above, I think this is 
a reasonable offer and I dont think it would be fair for me to say UKI should do anything 
more.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Direct Line.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman