DRN-3326933
The complaint
H, a limited company, complains about delays to a claim it made to AXA Insurance UK Plc 
on a landlord protection insurance policy.
H is represented in its dealings with our service by its director, Mr F. Ill refer to Mr F and H 
within this decision.
What happened
H owns a number of properties and has commercial tenants in some of these. It holds a 
landlord protection insurance policy provided by AXA. 
One of the properties was damaged due to water entering through the roof. H made a claim 
on the policy. 
Mr F, on behalf of H, complained to AXA about delays to the claim. He said that because 
these delays, the tenant at the property had initiated legal action. He said AXA should make 
a contribution to Hs legal fees incurred in defending this action.
AXA acknowledged there had been delays in its handling of the claim, and agreed to pay a 
total of £200 compensation to recognise this. Mr F referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator considered that the compensation offered by AXA didnt properly recognise the 
impact of the delays on H. She thought AXA should pay an additional £100 compensation, 
making £300 in total. AXA agreed with this assessment. Mr F, on behalf of H, didnt, and 
believes that AXA should make a contribution to Hs legal fees. As no agreement could be 
reached, the complaint has come to me make a final decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that AXA has already admitted there were avoidable delays during 
the course of its assessment of the claim. What I need to do is conclude on the extent of the 
delays, and the impact of these. Ultimately, I need to address whether, in my opinion, the 
avoidable delays resulted in the tenants taking legal action against H.
It's important to note here that AXA should only be considered at fault for avoidable delays. 
Its generally accepted that resolving an insurance claim does take time, particularly where 
there is damage to a property. I think its fair to say that the length of time would possibly be 
longer in this case, where H, the property owners, AXA, the insurer and its representatives, 
the tenants of the property and Hs insurance brokers who were in contact with AXA during 
the claim, were all involved in one way or another and in contact with each other.
On reviewing the evidence available to me, I think its fair to say that the avoidable delays 
which are attributable to AXA (or its appointed representatives) were a few weeks at most. I 
say this because there was a period of 12 days after the claim was notified to AXA before 
loss adjusters were appointed to deal with the claim on its behalf. It was then over three 
weeks before the loss adjusters visited the property. 
I do accept though that during the period Ive outlined above there were a number of factors 
which mean that the entirety shouldnt be considered to be an avoidable delay. Im aware 
that during the period between the loss adjusters being appointed and their visit they were 
undertaking enquiries and reviewing the available information. They were also seeking to 
arrange the appointment with the tenants. This was also during the Christmas period  the 
visit took place on Christmas Eve. 
In the period between Christmas and the New Year, AXA concluded that the damage to the 
roof wasnt covered by the policy and H was informed of this. Im aware that following this, 
AXA and its representatives undertook enquiries into the liability on the policy for damage to 
the interior of the property. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that there were avoidable 
delays due to the actions (or inactions) of AXA during those enquiries.
AXAs paid £200 in total to recognise the inconvenience caused to H by the avoidable 
delays. Its agreed with our investigators opinion that this should be increased by £100, 
making £300 in total. I agree that this amount properly recognises the inconvenience to H, 
by its representatives having to chase AXA for updates and also field queries from the 
tenants without being able to give a clear answer or timescale for the insurance claim to be 
progressed.
I conclude that AXA should pay an additional £100 compensation to H.
Ive also considered whether AXA should be required to make a contribution towards Hs 
legal fees, which it incurred when the tenants initiated legal action. Im not persuaded that it 
should.
I say this for a number of reasons. AXA had declined cover for the roof repair at the end of 
December, and H received a letter from the tenants solicitors over six weeks later, in 
February. I think this is significant, as the delays attributable to AXAs poor service were a 
matter of a couple of weeks at most in December. I think its difficult make a direct 
connection between those delays in December and the decision to take legal action in 
February. I note from the tenants solicitors that no specific mention is made of delays at the 
early stage of the claim. The avoidable delays, for which AXA is responsible, ended in 
December. Legal action didnt start until February. 
The tenants solicitors refer, in their letter, to the lack of repairs to the roof and that this is 
causing ongoing issues at the property. AXA had declined cover for the roof repairs in 
December. Its Hs responsibility in the first instance, and throughout the claim process, to 
mitigate their loss. Once the claim had been declined, it was Hs responsibility to repair the 
roof. I think its a fair conclusion to say that the lack of apparent repairs to the roof by 
February were a significant part of the reason for taking legal action, and that the majority of 
that time wasnt due to any inaction or poor service from AXA. 
Im also aware that the solicitors letter to H makes reference to alleged electrical issues at 
the property. These arent connected to the claim, or any action of AXA. This is further 
evidence in my opinion that the legal action is unrelated to the delays caused by AXA.
AXA has noted, and it doesnt appear to be disputed by H, that there were difficulties in the 
relationship between the tenant and H which pre-dated the claim. While the existence of the 
claim acted, Im satisfied, as a trigger for the legal action, I think that there was a certain 
degree of inevitability of this happening once the matters leading to the claim had occurred 
(for which AXA isnt responsible) given the deteriorating relationship between H and the tenant.
So on balance, I cant conclude that legal action was only taken because of delays. I also 
cant conclude that the legal action was partially caused by the delays. I dont think that the 
avoidable delays played any part in the tenants decision to initiate legal action. I wont be 
asking AXA to pay anything towards Hs legal fees.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, AXA 
Insurance UK Plc must pay H an additional £100 compensation, making £300 in total. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay this amount within 28 days of us telling it that H has 
accepted our decision. If it doesnt, it must pay simple interest on the amount at a rate of 8% 
per year from that date until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman