DRN-3270202
The complaint
Mr M complains that Pensionhelp Limited (Pensionhelp) made an error when it sold 
investments in his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) prematurely and contrary to his 
instructions. He says that the error led to him suffering a financial loss of about £30,000 and 
considerable distress.
What happened
Mr M had a SIPP which was valued at about £700,000 and invested in several underlying 
funds across different asset classes including cash, gilts, property and equities. He also had 
preserved benefits in two defined benefits pension schemes and was interested in 
transferring the value of these to his SIPP. Mr M was an existing client of another financial 
advisory business which I shall call Firm P.
Firm P introduced Mr M to Pensionhelp to provide pension transfer advice. In June 2020,           
Mr M signed Pensionhelps client agreement. This confirmed that it would provide Advice on 
suitability of transfer of deferred pension rights under two existing occupational defined 
benefits schemes. 
In September 2020, Pensionhelp issued a suitability report to Mr M recommending that he 
transfer the value of his preserved benefits in one of the defined benefits pension schemes 
to his SIPP. The transfer value was about £1m. Pensionhelps adviser recommended that 
once the transfer had been completed the entire value of the SIPP, which was expected to 
be about £1.7m, be invested in the RSM Model Portfolio 5 to align with Mr Ms risk profile. 
He accepted the recommendation in October 2020. Pensionhelp were registered as Mr Ms 
servicing agent with the SIPP provider and so had authority to make fund switches on his 
behalf.
While waiting for the transfer process to be completed, Mr M became concerned about 
potential volatility in the investment markets. He wanted to mitigate the risk of investment 
loss in the short-term by holding in cash the transfer value received from the defined benefits 
pension scheme with a view to drip feeding that money into the market over several months. 
So, on 2 November 2020, he sent an email to the Pensionhelp adviser who provided the 
recommendation to transfer and stated:
I am writing in respect of my [SIPP] and the initial asset allocation, as compared to 
the current holdings.
I wish this initial allocation to vary from the original thoughts discussed [full and 
immediate investment in the RSM Model Portfolio 5], due to the relatively extreme 
events around the US Election, immediate Brexit uncertainty and all made much 
worse by the sudden economic shock of the new lockdown due to CoVid-19 virus. 
This exceptional time is why I need to make the change below.
Therefore, once the [defined benefits pension scheme] funds arrive, I have decided it 
is preferable to have additional downside risk protection and so to drip-feed funds 
equally over the coming 6 months. This drip-feeding would start only in mid-
December or thereabouts, into the agreed version of RSMR Model Portfolio 5. 
Having said this, I do wish the equivalent of the current SIPP value from my 
workplace pension portfolio mix to be fully invested as a start-point. 
Hence, once my CETV arrives at [SIPP provider], please modify the actual total asset 
mix from that currently to be as follows: 
 [SIPP provider] Cash 60.14%
 RSMR MP5 39.86%
I understand that [Firm P] are supplying you with the unit allocations for the RSMR 
MP5 mix. 
I also confirm that I have made this decision myself and I fully understand the 
possible adverse consequences of this gradual monthly investment strategy. 
On 3 November 2020 at 10:15 am, Firm P emailed Pensionhelp. Attached to the email was a 
revised asset allocation titled, MODEL PORTFOLIO 5 with 60.14% Cash.  Firm Ps email 
essentially confirmed that Mr Ms SIPP should be invested in line with his instructions in his 
email of 2 November 2020. Pensionhelp subsequently disinvested the entire unit holding of 
Mr Ms SIPP. The proceeds were held in the SIPP cash facility.
On 3 November 2020 at 10:57 am, Pensionhelp emailed the SIPP provider and stated, We 
require your assistance with this one, as the client [Mr M] has since changed their mind 
about the investments chosen at the application stage. The [defined benefits pension 
scheme transfer value] is due to arrive with yourselves in the next 5-10 working days, but 
when this arrives, can you ensure that the funds are now instead kept in cash until we 
manually invest them afterwards? I have disinvested all of the existing funds today too ready 
for when the transfer funds arrive as per the clients instructions, and we will rebalance the 
whole portfolio as one. Please let me know if you need anything else from me in order to 
ensure the transfer funds stay in cash, and sorry for any inconvenience caused. 
On 3 November 2020 at 11:07 am, Pensionhelp emailed Firm P in response to its email sent 
on the same day at 10:15 am and stated it had, placed the disinvestments for the existing 
funds ready for their arrival, and contacted [SIPP provider] to ensure they do not invest the 
transferred funds until we manually do so. We then invest the entire portfolio based on the 
attached, and we will of course keep you in the loop throughout this process. 
On 5 November 2020, Pensionhelp wrote to Mr M in response to his email of                                    
2 November 2020. In that letter, Pensionhelps adviser stated, Further to my report of           
23 September 2020 where I recommended your funds be invested the RSM Model Portfolio 
5, you have asked me to hold your funds in cash due to extreme world events. The 
advisers letter continued, Having explained the Pensionhelp position, you still want to 
initially invest in cash. As such you need to be aware that the responsibility for facilitating the 
eventual investment into the recommended fund will be conducted by the introducing 
adviser, [Firm P]. 
Mr M became aware that on 3 November 2020 the entire value of his SIPP had been 
disinvested, contrary to his instructions. He raised this with Firm P and Pensionhelp.
On 9 November 2020, Firm P emailed a revised asset allocation to Pensionhelp for 
investment in the RSM Model Portfolio 5. Later that same day, Pensionhelp re-invested the 
value of Mr Ms SIPP in accordance with that revised asset allocation  this was intended to 
match the 39.86% investment and 60.14% cash split set out in Mr Ms email                            
2 November 2020.On 23 December 2020, the SIPP provider received the transfer value of £1,043,883 from the 
defined benefits pension scheme. This was held in the cash facility. 
This complaint
Mr M complained to Pensionhelp. He said that the disinvestment into cash on                                     
3 November 2020, the day of the US Presidential election, was contrary to his wishes and 
instructions of 2 November 2020 which had resulted in him suffering a substantial financial 
loss and considerable distress. He said he couldnt understand why Pensionhelp had taken 
that action, particularly on such a significant day in global politics, which exposed him to the 
risk of being out of the market. He said that by the time the value of his SIPP had been re-
invested on 9 November 2020, global stock markets had risen by over 5% since                              
3 November 2020. He said that he had missed out on investment growth of about £30,000 
between 3 and 9 November 2020. To put things right, he requested that Pensionhelp pay 
him compensation.
Pensionhelp didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it said that Mr M didnt provide explicit 
instructions and that it is not our place as Independent Financial Advisers to overlay any 
thoughts or wishes other than your own. It also said it couldnt see how it could be held 
responsible for the alleged financial loss since it had simply acted on the instructions given 
and it wasnt its place to provide investment advice given that Firm P was Mr Ms investment 
adviser.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. In summary, she said 
that, in his email of 2 November 2020, Mr M had provided clear information to Pensionhelp 
about how his SIPP should be invested and that it had disinvested prematurely and contrary 
to his instructions. She said that if Pensionhelp wasnt sure about the instructions or wanted 
further clarification then it shouldve contacted Mr M before selling any investments in his 
SIPP. To put things right, she recommended that Pensionhelp pay compensation based on 
what the current value of Mr Ms SIPP would be had the instructions in his email of                            
2 November 2020 been followed correctly. She also recommended that Pensionhelp pay                          
Mr M £250 for the distress caused by its error.
While Mr M accepted our investigators recommendation, Pensionhelp didnt. It repeated 
some of its previous comments. It also said that it would only accept such instructions from a 
clients investment adviser. And that once it received such instructions it had a duty to 
execute it in a timely manner. It said that Mr M wanted to be out of the market and was 
happy with this until it rose on 6 November 2020 and then complained.
Our investigator considered Pensionhelps additional comments but wasnt persuaded to 
change her opinion. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred 
to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industrypractice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Mr M and Pensionhelp. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all the 
available evidence afresh including Mr Ms and Pensionhelps comments in response to our 
investigators assessment. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator for the following reasons:
Its my view that in his email of 2 November 2020 Mr M provided clear instructions to 
Pensionhelp. He stated that changes to the underlying asset allocation on his SIPP 
should only be made once the transfer value from the defined benefits pension 
scheme had been received. He continued that once the transfer value had been 
received the overall asset mix should be 39.86% invested in the RSM Model 
Portfolio 5 and 60.14% held initially in the SIPP cash facility which he then intended 
to drip feed into the market over several months. 
Mr Ms instruction was further confirmed by Firm P when it emailed Pensionhelp on  
3 November 2020 at 10:15 am. In that email, Firm P provided a revised asset 
allocation titled, MODEL PORTFOLIO 5 with 60.14% Cash, which mirrored Mr Ms 
email of 2 November 2020. 
However, despite the instructions received, Pensionhelp inexplicably arranged on                                     
3 November 2020 to immediately disinvest the entire unit holding of Mr Ms SIPP and 
to hold the proceeds in the cash facility. This action was taken before the transfer 
value was received from the defined benefits pension scheme on                                 
23 December 2020. So its clear that Pensionhelp didnt follow the instructions it had 
been given.
Prior to the disinvestment, Mr Ms SIPP was invested in several underlying funds 
across different asset classes including cash, gilts, property and equities and 
therefore exposed to the markets. Pensionhelps actions led to the value of                       
Mr Ms SIPP being out of the market until the re-investment on 9 November 2020. In 
my view, if Pensionhelp wasnt sure about the instructions received or wanted further 
clarification then it shouldve contacted Mr M or Firm P before taking any action. 
Mr M said that Pensionhelp ignored his instructions. I think it would be more accurate 
to say that Pensionhelp misunderstood the instructions it received from Mr M and 
Firm P. I say this because of what Pensionhelp stated in its communications with the 
SIPP provider and Mr M. In its email to the SIPP provider on 3 November 2020 at                            
10:57 am, Pensionhelp stated that it had, disinvested all of the existing funds 
today too ready for when the transfer funds arrive as per the clients instructions and 
we will rebalance the whole portfolio as one [my emphasis added].  But immediate 
and full disinvestment of the existing unit holding isnt what Mr M or Firm P had 
instructed. And then in its letter of 5 November 2020 to Mr M, Pensionhelp stated, 
you have asked me to hold your funds in cash due to extreme world events 
and, Having explained the Pensionhelp position, you still want to initially invest in 
cash[my emphasis added]. Again, immediate and full disinvestment of the existing 
unit holding isnt what Mr M or Firm P had instructed. So I think its fair to say that 
Pensionhelp misunderstood the instructions because I cannot find any other reason 
why else it arranged to immediately disinvest the entire unit holding of Mr Ms SIPP 
on 3 November 2020.In responding to this complaint Pensionhelp said it wasnt its role to overlay client 
instructions to its investment recommendations. It also said Mr M didnt provide 
explicit instructions. But, in my view, Mr M did provide clear instructions in his email 
of 2 November 2020 that no changes were to be made to the asset allocation of his 
SIPP until the transfer value from the defined benefits pension scheme had been 
received. Furthermore, if Pensionhelps position is that it wasnt its role to implement 
client instructions then I find it odd that it didnt reply to his email to inform him of this 
and instead carried out the disinvestment on 3 November 2020.
Pensionhelp also said that once it receives an investment instruction it has a duty to 
execute it in a timely manner. The problem here though is that Pensionhelp 
misunderstood the instruction. So while it executed the instruction promptly, it 
implemented it prematurely and incorrectly. 
Pensionhelp said that Mr M wanted to be out of the market and was happy with this 
until the market rise on 6 November 2020 and then complained. But the evidence 
simply doesnt support this. The evidence clearly shows that Mr M told Pensionhelp 
not to make any changes to the asset allocation of his SIPP until the transfer value 
from the defined benefits pension scheme was received. 
In conclusion, its my opinion that Pensionhelp misunderstood the investment instructions 
received from Mr M and Firm P. This led to it incorrectly disinvesting the entire unit holding of 
Mr Ms SIPP on 3 November 2020. This meant that the value of his SIPP was out of the 
market until it was re-invested on 9 November 2020. So, given that Pensionhelp was at fault, 
I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances that it pay compensation to Mr M if hes 
suffered a financial loss because of its error.
Putting things right
Pensionhelp must pay Mr M £250 to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused by its 
error.
In addition, Pensionhelp must carry out a loss assessment to determine if its error led to                 
Mr M suffering a financial loss. My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr M back 
into the position he would likely have been in had Pensionhelp followed his instructions in his 
email of 2 November 2020. Pensionhelp must carry out a loss assessment on the following 
basis:
Obtain from the SIPP provider the notional fund value of Mr Ms SIPP as at the date 
of this final decision had his instructions of 2 November 2020 been followed. This is 
A. This wouldve meant the asset allocation of his SIPP remained invested as it was 
immediately before the disinvestment until the transfer value was received from the 
defined benefits pension scheme on 23 December 2020.
Obtain from the SIPP provider the value of Mr Ms SIPP as the date of this final 
decision. This is B.
Subtract B from A to determine C.
If C is a positive figure, this is the financial loss that Mr M has suffered. If C is a negative 
figure, then theres no financial loss and Pensionhelp dont have to pay any compensation 
for financial loss.If theres a loss, Pensionhelp should pay the compensation direct to Mr M rather than to his 
SIPP. This is because he has Fixed Protection 2016 (FP16). Payment of any contribution 
or compensation to Mr Ms SIPP (or any other registered pension arrangement) will lead to 
the loss of FP16 resulting in adverse tax consequences for him. But had it been possible to 
pay compensation to the SIPP, it wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total 
amount payable to Mr M should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ms actual or expected marginal
rate of tax at his selected retirement age which Ive decided is likely to be 20%. However, if 
Mr M wouldve been able to take a 25% tax-free lump sum and so the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
If settlement isnt made within 30 days of Mr M accepting this final decision, Pensionhelp 
should pay interest on the loss calculated from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% per year simple. Income tax may be due on this interest. If Pensionhelp 
deducts tax it should provide Mr M with a tax certificate. If Pensionhelp considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Mr M how 
much has been taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Pensionhelp must also provide details of its calculations to Mr M in a clear format.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Pensionhelp Limited must redress Mr M as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman