DRN-3977845
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about their commercial vehicle insurer Allianz Insurance Plc 
as they believe an error by it, following the conclusion of a previous claim they made to it, 
caused them financial loss.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R damaged a piece of equipment which attaches to a vehicle they use in their 
business, which is insured by Allianz. The vehicle itself was not damaged and Allianz 
accepted the claim for the damaged equipment, which it viewed as a total loss, beyond 
economic repair. The claim was settled in around February 2021.
In around June 2021 Mr R told Allianz that a salvage company was trying to take his vehicle 
away. He told Allianz he had already disposed of the damaged equipment. Allianz told the 
salvage company there was no salvage to collect.
In September 2021 Mr and Mrs R were updating some details with the DVLA about the 
vehicle. The DVLA wrote to Mr and Mrs R on 7 September 2021 stating they should not be 
using the vehicle, that it had been written off as a total loss. This meant they could not use 
the vehicle on public roads and that they, therefore, could not access all of their land. The 
vehicle was used to carry out various important work on the land, in line with their business, 
some of which had to be done at certain times in order to comply with Regulations. Other 
work was crucially time specific to enable long term business plans to be met. Mr and Mrs R 
were very worried about how they would manage without being able to use the vehicle on 
the road. Upon notification of the problem by Mr and Mrs R, Allianz, on 14 September 2021, 
said it would resolve things within a few days. By 20 September 2021 the matter was not 
resolved and Mr R told Allianz he then could not find another vehicle to use in the meantime. 
Mr R was meant to travel for business around this time but put the trip back by a week 
because of everything that was going on.
Upon Mr Rs return the problem with the vehicle was still not resolved  and nor had Allianz 
come up with any short-term solution to the problem. Allianz said it could hire a vehicle for a 
while  but they were still in short supply and when one was found, the costs werent 
approved in time by Allianz. Mr R asked if Allianz would let him buy a vehicle and then take it 
from him when his was back on the road, Allianz said it couldnt do that. Allianz said all it 
could do would be to keep the vehicle showing as a total loss but settle with Mr R for its 
value, less an amount for him keeping it. Allianz felt the systems would update quicker that 
way, allowing the vehicle to be road legal sooner. Mr R was not happy with that suggestion.
Eventually, on 16 November 2021, the vehicle was updated on the DVLA system to show it 
was not a total loss. Meaning the vehicle could be used again on the road. Mr and Mrs R 
had asked Allianz for compensation  not least because the autumn months are a crucial 
time for their business and the massive disruption this had caused. Allianz said as it had 
been prepared to provide a hire vehicle for two weeks, it would pay them the cost it would 
have incurred for that  £4,116. Mr and Mrs R said if things were looked at on a hire basis  
they should have been put in hire the moment it was known their vehicle couldnt be used 
due to Allianz error, and remained in hire until the issue was resolved. They said that would 
amount to around £20,000. As Allianz was not prepared to increase its offer of settlement, 
Mr and Mrs R complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator initially felt that £4,116 was a fair and reasonable offer by Allianz. But upon 
review, he felt Allianz should be paying the equivalent of hire costs for the whole period. 
Allianz however was not happy to agree to that. It noted that basing any settlement on hire 
costs was not really fair  it had done so by way of trying to reach an agreeable settlement  
but Mr and Mrs R had not incurred a loss in respect of hire costs. Allianz noted that, 
currently, the financial impact for Mr and Mrs R having been without their vehicle for those 
months, is not known. It said it was happy to review the compensation issue again, in the 
future, once losses can be quantified.
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans decision. But whilst it was 
waiting for review our Investigator contacted both parties again. He said:
It is clear that Mr and Mrs R, due to Allianz error, were put into a very difficult position that 
will most likely have significant financial consequences for them. And clearly they were 
caused a lot of worry  at the time but also worry that will stay with them for a prolonged 
period  given the length of time it will take for the [..impact to be seen..]. However, I can 
also, on review, see Allianz concern about settling based on the hire costs  costs that 
neither party actually incurred. Im further mindful of the figures I referenced in my initial 
view, which suggest the likely future financial loss may not be as much as what the cost of 
hire would have been. As Ive said calculating what the actual loss is likely to be is near 
impossible and Mr and Mrs R are only in this position because of Allianz error. So I am 
asking the parties to consider resolving this complaint by a settlement being paid and 
accepted of £12,000.
Allianz offered £4,116 which was not acceptable to Mr and Mrs R. Mr and Mrs R asked for 
£20,650. Neither can evidence that either the offered amount or that asked for actually 
reflects the loss which will likely occur. And there is the distress to take into account too. In 
these very difficult and unusual circumstances, I think a payment of £12,000, roughly 
halfway between the figures offered and asked for by the parties, is a fair and reasonable 
way to settle the complaint.
Allianz said it couldnt agree to that. Mr and Mrs R said they continued to be disappointed by 
Allianz response to this situation, they noted that whilst the issue had been live in 2021, 
Allianz had been prepared to pay around £30,000 if theyd agreed to keep the total loss 
marker on their vehicle. They felt it was telling that since the crisis had passed, it seemed to 
want to do little to make up for everything.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties will note that my background is light on details. Our decisions are published and 
so are anonymised for that purpose. In the circumstances of this complaint, Ive felt it is 
necessary, to ensure anonymity, to keep the business and loss details, including the type of 
vehicle concerned, very vague by using only generic terminology. But I can assure both 
parties that I understand the specifics in question.  
Clearly Allianz made an error regarding the vehicle  seemingly it had logged the number 
plate of the vehicle when assessing the claim for the damaged equipment, and its decision 
to write the equipment off was, consequently, linked to the vehicle registration. This meant 
the vehicle was recorded as being written off. I can see how that mistake might have arisen, and think that is, in itself, a relatively simple technical error. But its an error which Im 
satisfied has had significant consequences for Mr and Mrs R. 
I think the impact on Mr and Mrs R was both financial and non-financial. And I can 
understand, in the very specific circumstances here, that its impossible for those losses to 
be quantified  or even really for the impact of the distress and inconvenience to be entirely 
understood. And Im mindful that the non-financial impact extends towards a loss of 
reputation too, or at least a worry that such may/must have occurred. I say that as I know 
that Mr and Mrs R had to rely heavily on other businesses for assistance during the period 
they were without their vehicle, which was a peak time for all of them too. Further that 
long-term business plans  which involved contact with others  had to be put on hold or 
adapted too.  
I also note that Allianz had more than one opportunity to avoid and/or limit the impacts of its 
error. Allianz was made aware in June 2021 that the vehicle itself had been marked for 
salvage  I think it reasonably should have thought then to check the relevant databases to 
see what markers had been placed against the vehicle. It could then have taken pro-active 
steps to change things, perhaps even offering a hire vehicle in the interim. That would have 
avoided all of the shock and worry Mr and Mrs R were caused when they got the letter out of 
the blue from the DVLA. And everything would have been resolved with their vehicle back on 
the road when the busy autumn period began.
Allianz had a second opportunity to avoid any impact to Mr and Mrs Rs business as a result 
of its error when they contacted it on 14 September 2021. I think Allianz shouldnt have 
expected them to manage, even for just a few days, without full use of their vehicle. I think 
Allianz should have immediately offered a hire option. I know Mr R said that by 
20 September 2021, none were available, but, in the circumstances here, I think the position 
a week earlier, might likely have been very different. As it was, it wasnt until October when 
Allianz began to seriously look at the hire option. And then another error occurred, because 
authorisations werent communicated effectively and the only available vehicle was lost 
when it was hired elsewhere. Which meant Mr and Mrs R were without full use of their 
vehicle, with no substitution having been made available to them by Allianz, from 
14 September 2021 until 16 November 2021. 
Having considered everything, I find Im in agreement with the paragraphs quoted above. Id 
add a further emphasis here though  this is an unusual situation which requires an unusual 
remedy for a fair and reasonable outcome to be reached. In saying that I note that Allianz 
has said it would review things in several years time when, perhaps, some of the impacts of 
its failures in 2021 can be better understood. But that sort of remedy is not, in my view, 
workable in practice. I also note the unusual nature of my award because quantification is 
often a key part of assessing a complaint about financial loss. It is also part of my role 
though to assess each complaint on its own merits, and make an award that is fair, 
reasonable and workable in practice, in all of the circumstances. I think that here, settling the 
matter by requiring Allianz to pay Mr and Mrs R £12,000 compensation does exactly that. 
Putting things right
I require Allianz to pay Mr and Mrs R £12,000.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Allianz Insurance Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman