DRN-2858290
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) provided him with poor service during a 
call in August 2020 and then refused to send him a recording of that call for his records.
What happened
HSBC issued Mr C with a final response letter (in respect of his complaint) in August 2020.
Under cover of this letter HSBC apologised for the service provided during the August 2020 
call and confirmed that it was prepared to pay £30 for any trouble and upset Mr C was 
caused. HSBC also confirmed that it was unable to provide a copy of the call recording by 
post, due to the Covid pandemic having a bearing on its working practices, but it could and 
would send the same by email to Mr C if required.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that given 
HSBC had apologised for the service it had provided during the August 2020 call, had 
offered to pay Mr C £30 for any trouble and upset this call caused and had agreed to provide 
a copy of the call recording by email, albeit not by post, it need do nothing further.
Mr C didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to 
what has already been said.
Having listened to the recording of the August 2020 call I accept that Mr C received a poor 
level of service from HSBC for which he should be fairly compensated. But taking everything 
into account Im satisfied that having apologised and having offered Mr C £30 for any trouble 
and upset caused I dont think HSBC need do anything further in this respect.
I can appreciate why Mr C wanted a recording of the August 2020 sent to him by post, rather 
than by other means. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to say HSBC 
should have sent the call recoding by post given the restrictions it was working under 
because of the Covid pandemic. 
I would also reiterate what the investigator has said, and that is if Mr C only wanted the call 
recording so he could send it to us, this wasnt necessary.
I accept that Mr C will be disappointed. But in summary I, like the investigator, am satisfied 
that what HSBC has done in respect of this complaint is appropriate, fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must, to the extent it hasnt done so already, 
pay Mr C £30 in respect of this complaint. However, it need do nothing more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman