DRN-4400360
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly 
turned down its request for a loan under the Governments Recovery Loan Scheme (RLS). 
F is represented by its director, Mr F. 
What happened
F applied for a Recovery Loan in May 2021. Its application was declined and in April 2022, it 
applied again for a £250,000 loan. 
Barclays said that, under the scheme rules, maximum borrowing levels were based on 
turnover or wages bills. F revised its request down to a £62,000 loan based on its latest 
wages bill. But Barclays still declined to offer the loan. 
Mr F complained that it was unfair to turn down Fs loan. Barclays didnt uphold his complaint 
and Mr F referred it to the Financial Ombudsman. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt think that Barclays had 
acted unfairly. Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again. He 
said, in summary   
He met all the eligibility criteria for the RLS. 
He considered that Barclays had declined his application because of a conflict of 
interest. That was because they were already lending to him at higher rates and 
didnt want him to refinance on to the lower RLS rate. 
The criteria didnt say that a company had to be making a profit. Many companies 
didnt make profits for years without being in distress. 
Barclays had put him through a lot of trauma, including closing Fs current account. 
The Government had been proactive and supportive, but Barclays had decided to 
frustrate his business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, but I havent seen any evidence that Barclays 
breached any guidelines by declining Fs Recovery Loan. Nor do I consider the bank 
behaved unfairly by doing so.
Like the Bounce Back Loan Scheme (BBLS), which I understand F had already used, the 
RLS was designed to provide financial support to businesses that were suffering cashflow 
problems as a result of the pandemic. But unlike the BBLS, with Recovery Loans, the British 
Business Bank chose to include a viability test in the scheme requirements. 
Lenders were not obliged to offer Recovery Loans. In fact, they were obliged to carry out a 
lending assessment and although there was a 70% Government guarantee, banks were not 
supposed to rely on this when making credit decisions but rather to look for viable 
propositions. Banks were thus left with considerable discretion under this scheme. 
As our investigator pointed out, the scheme had limits on the amount that could be borrowed 
as a proportion of turnover or wages bill. Fs turnover didnt come anywhere near supporting 
borrowing of £250,000. The bank then enquired about Fs wages bill, which Mr F said was 
around £31,000. Borrowers were allowed to apply to borrow double this, so F revised its 
request down to £62,000. But this amount remained at Barclays discretion.
Mr F has pointed out that some start-up companies dont make profits for many years, 
without being in distress. I agree, but banks are expected to lend responsibly and Barclays 
had in my view legitimate concerns about Fs ability to repay its borrowing, which already 
included a BBL. Servicing this amount of debt would have been challenging and given that F 
had never made a profit, it is difficult to see how it could have demonstrated its ability to 
repay. Nonetheless, Barclays records show that the banks agent did offer to review things 
further if Mr F provided Fs accounts, which I think was fair. I cant see that any further 
information was ever provided by Mr F after that point. 
I know Mr F feels very strongly that Barclays had a conflict of interest in his case, because 
he had existing borrowing with them at higher interest rates. As far as I can see this other 
debt was mostly personal borrowing in his sole name. I havent seen any evidence that this 
was part of Barclays considerations at any point in Fs lending request. 
Im conscious that Barclays chose to participate in the RLS, so I think its reasonable to 
conclude that they were prepared to lend money at the RLS rates where they considered 
there to be a viable lending proposal. Overall, I havent been persuaded that interest rates 
were part of Barclays considerations when turning down Fs application. 
In summary, the RLS scheme required Barclays to make their own lending decisions. I 
havent seen any evidence that Barclays made any errors in their handling of Fs application 
or failed to give it fair consideration. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman