DRN-3550965
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled suspected fraud on his 
account.
What happened
Mr P complains that:
Barclays cancelled and issued him new cards five times in one month because of 
suspected fraud.
Barclays advised him to transfer his funds to a different account, but he ended up 
being charged for going into his overdraft.
He went into a branch to withdraw money over the counter, but the counter had been 
closed earlier than advertised. 
He hasnt been able to speak with anyone at Barclays about his complaint.
Hes experienced embarrassment because he borrowed money as he didnt have 
access to his debit card at times.
Mr P wants Barclays to pay him compensation to put things right.
Barclays explained that its system flags suspected fraud on Mr Ps account and his cards 
were blocked to protect him from losing his money. Remaining unhappy, Mr P asked this 
service to get involved.
One of our investigators decided that the bank had acted fairly. Mr P didnt agree and asked 
for a final decision. Mr P says he spent a lot of time on the phone because of this issue and 
was often cut off from Barclays online chat service when making enquiries. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint  my reasons are as follows.
Barclays has a duty to take steps to keep Mr Ps account safe. I can see from the 
information Barclays has provided and the calls Ive listened to, Barclays flagged Mr Ps card 
because of suspected fraud. Barclays says its process is to cancel the relevant card 
whenever fraud is suspected and issue a replacement. Although I understand Mr Ps 
frustrations, I thinks its reasonable that Barclays reacted to suspicious activities on Mr Ps 
account and took further action each time to protect Mr P from suffering a loss. Its 
unfortunate this has happened so many times, but I cant hold Barclays responsible for 
reacting to actions carried out by what seems to be third-party fraudsters.
Ive looked at the data Barclays has provided. Although this demonstrates that Mr Ps debit 
card was cancelled multiple times, it doesnt seem to correspond with his claim that his card 
was cancelled five times in one month. As I said, Barclays acted reasonably each time by 
cancelling Mr Ps card so it could protect him from losing funds to fraudsters. Its unclear why 
Mr Ps account has been flagged so many times, but it seems to me that the bank is only 
reacting to actions by an unknown third-party/parties. So I cant agree Barclays did 
something wrong here.
I also cant agree that Barclays advised Mr P to transfer his funds to another account and 
caused him to go into his overdraft. Ive listened to the conversation Mr P had with Barclays 
about this and it seems to me that it was Mr P that suggested moving his funds to another 
account  not Barclays. The bank appears to have explored this as an option but only after 
Mr P put it forward in the first instance.
I can see from the calls that Mr P experienced problems meeting his payment commitments 
because he didnt have access to a debit card while he waited for a new one. However, I can 
also see that Barclays suggested several alternative payment options to Mr P, none of which 
Mr P felt was suitable for him at the time. In my opinion, the suggestions were reasonable in 
the circumstances.  
Moreover, Barclays records show that each new debit card was first used within a few days 
of being issued. So Im satisfied the bank took steps to ensure Mr P received newly issued 
cards as quickly as possible. Barclays records also indicate that the value of each apparent 
fraudulent transaction was pre-credited to Mr Ps account while the bank investigated. So I 
cant conclude that Barclays acted unfairly or that it left Mr P unnecessarily out of pocket.
Mr P says he was unable to withdraw funds in branch over the counter because the counter 
had closed earlier than advertised. I dont doubt Mr Ps recollection of what happened, but 
its difficult for me to conclude the bank did anything wrong without any records 
demonstrating what happened at the time. I appreciate Mr P wouldve found this frustrating, 
but I cant fairly conclude that he was unable to withdraw his money because the bank did 
something wrong. 
Mr P suggests he experienced service issues when he contacted Barclays about the 
problems hed been experiencing, referring specifically to the banks chat service. Barclays 
couldnt find a record of any conversations with Mr P via its online chat and Mr P was unable 
to provide any further commentary either. Having listened to the calls and reviewed Barclays 
notes, I havent seen anything that makes me think that the bank provided a poor service. So 
I wont be asking Barclays to do anything in relation to this.
Mr P suggests he hasnt been able to discuss his complaint with anyone at Barclays. 
However, I can see this complaint was registered over the phone with Barclays, during which 
Mr Ps concerns were taken forward. Mr P also says he had problems with his online 
banking around the time. But Barclays online banking audit indicates that Mr P used his 
online banking successfully around the time. So I cant agree with his claims.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that Barclays acted reasonably in the way it handled suspected 
fraud on Mr Ps debit card.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman