DRN-4296329
The complaint
Mr S complains about Accelerant Insurance Limiteds (Accelerant) not replacing a shower 
tray at his home, that it damaged, following a claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
The flat above Mr S had an escape of water, and this caused damage to Mr S property. He 
contacted Accelerant and made a claim. Mr S has complained about the handling of his 
claim and moreover that one of the contractors that Accelerant appointed, damaged his 
shower tray. 
Accelerant appointed a shower specialist to re-spray and repair the tray, which was 
completed. Mr S complained to Accelerant as he said the repair was substandard and there 
was still damage and poor finishing to the tray. 
Accelerant told Mr S that it was prepared to re-send the contractor, to carry out a polish on 
the shower tray, which it felt would resolve any issues. Mr S asked Accelerant to replace the 
shower tray as he felt that there were no guarantees that the repair/polish would be 
successful. So, he complained again. 
In its final response, Accelerant maintained its position and gave Mr S his referral rights. It 
also said that as there was some poor service issues, it paid Mr S £100 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused.
Mr S was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that the 
evidence showed that the repair of the shower tray was done to a satisfactory standard, so it 
wouldnt be reasonable for her to recommend that Accelerant replace the shower tray. She 
also said that the £100 compensation Accelerant offered for the poor service issues, was 
reasonable. 
Accelerant accepted the view, Mr S did not. He said that the repair of the shower tray was 
below standard. He said that the contractor who had carried out the repair had agreed to 
return to inspect it and did. He said that he would be able to provide an expert report that 
confirmed the inadequate repair. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator, which I understand is likely to be a disappointment to Mr S. But I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Accelerant accepted that its contractor caused damage to Mr S shower tray. It sent in 
another contractor to carry out a repair. That repair was done. The evidence that Ive read 
shows that the repair was completed to a satisfactory standard. 
Mr S said that the repair was poor and there were marks and cracks on the tray. He would 
like the shower tray replaced. He felt the repair hadnt achieved a 100% level and he wanted 
it to be 100% perfect. 
From the evidence that Ive reviewed (that included reports from the loss adjuster) it 
confirmed that the repair carried out by the contractor to the shower tray was satisfactory. 
Which meant that the shower tray was fully functional. 
Mr S said that he would provide expert evidence to show that the repairs were poor. But I 
havent been provided with this. In the absence of any expert evidence that could refute 
Accelerants expert evidence (namely that of the loss adjuster), Im persuaded that the 
repairs to the tray were adequate and were of a standard, that didnt affect the functionality 
of the shower tray. 
Also, Mr S provided me with information regarding renting out the room and bathroom, in 
which the shower tray is located. From that evidence, there is no information indicating that 
the shower in the bathroom is unusable. Nor has it apparently affected Mr S ability to rent 
that space out. This I think supports the evidence, that the shower tray is fully functional. 
Accordingly, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Accelerant to have to replace the shower 
tray. 
Taking everything into consideration. Im satisfied that Accelerant carried out a repair of the 
shower tray to a satisfactory standard. And that the functionality of the shower tray wasnt 
affected. I also think the offer of the compensation for the poor service issues was fair and in 
line with our services guidelines. Therefore, I cant reasonably ask Accelerant to do anything 
further here.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman