DRN-2912186
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited have turned down his
claim under his car insurance policy following an accident.
What happened
Mr C intended to insure his car (car A) online via a comparison site with Advantage through
a broker in February 2019 with a policy start date of 1 March 2019. Unfortunately, he
provided the registration number for the wrong car (car B). Hed sold car B some years
earlier. The broker provided confirmation of the policy details via an internet portal and this
showed the registration number and make and model of car B. Some months later Mr C had 
a letter from the DVLA to say that car A wasnt insured. And he contacted the broker through 
a webchat in August 2019 to let them know his car wasnt insured. The adviser asked him for 
his policy number and to confirm his cars registration number. Mr C gave the correct policy 
number, but he gave the registration number of car B. The adviser said shed send a request 
to get the vehicle updated on the Motor Insurance Database.
Mr C was involved in an accident in September 2019 in which his car and a third party
vehicle were damaged. When he called to let Advantage know about the accident he
provided the registration number for car B. Soon after this he realised hed insured car B
instead of car A by mistake. So, he called Advantage to let them know. Advantage decided
to refuse Mr Cs claim. This meant they wouldnt pay out for his car to be repaired. And they
wouldnt pay the claim from the driver of the other car involved in the accident.
Mr C had to hire a car to get around. And he eventually paid to have his car repaired. And
hes now been contacted about whats been paid out on the other drivers claim.
Mr C complained to Advantage, as he didnt think he should be penalised for what was a
genuine error in insuring the wrong car. Especially, as Advantage would have been happy to
insure the right car. And he explained why he felt Advantage should have pointed out to him
hed insured a car despite not being the registered keeper. He also said when he contacted
the broker to query why his car wasnt insured, they should have told him car B had been
noted as insured on the Motor Insurance Database for many years. Advantage wouldnt
change their mind, so Mr C bought a complaint to us.
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint and said it should be upheld. She
suggested Advantage should accept Mr Cs claim and cover some of his expenses. This was
on the basis that Mr C had made an innocent mistake and Advantage would have been quite
happy to insure the correct car.
Advantage didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr Cs
complaint was then referred to me. I asked Advantage and Mr C for some further
information, so that I could properly consider the fair and reasonable outcome to it. 
I issued a provisional decision on 29 June 2021. In this, I explained that I didnt think 
Advantage should have to deal with Mr Cs claim. This was because they hadnt done 
anything wrong which led to the wrong car being insured under Mr Cs policy. I also said I 
thought what theyd already paid in compensation for the poor service provided to Mr C on 
his claim was appropriate. However, I said they should refund the premium for the period the 
wrong car was insured. 
I gave both parties four weeks to provide further comments and/or evidence. 
Advantage have now responded to say they agree with my provisional decision and will 
provide the refund of premium if Mr C accepts my decision.
Mr C has replied to say he doesnt agree with my provisional decision. He thinks I have 
completely ignored his arguments around precedents within Advantage for dealing with 
cases where people have made clerical errors. He also thinks I have ignored precedents 
within the insurance industry for how insurers deal with this sort of situation. He has said 
another insurer he contacted told him they would have honoured his claim in the same 
circumstances. 
Mr C has also said he does not agree with my opinion that an important consideration is 
whether Advantage did anything wrong. He thinks the most important point is that he has 
been treated unfairly. Mr C also doesnt understand how if our investigators initial 
investigation resulted in a finding in his favour, I could disregard the investigators findings 
and reach the opposite conclusion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to say that I fully understand Mr Cs frustration and disappointment with 
the fact Ive reached a different conclusion to our investigator. And I would also like to assure 
him that I did not disregard her reasons for suggesting that Advantage should meet his 
claim. However, my role is to decide what I think the fair and reasonable outcome to his 
complaint is. And  while I understand he made a clerical error in insuring the wrong car, I do 
not think this means Advantage should have to deal with his claim. 
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances I have to consider the law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think there is any legal reason why 
Advantage should have to meet Mr Cs claim, as they were not insuring the car he was 
driving at the time of his accident. I appreciate this was due to a mistake by Mr C, but 
Advantage had no way of knowing this. 
The rules covering claims handling by insurance companies are set out in Section 8 of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook. And these 
along with the High Level Principles at the start of the handbook set out how Advantage 
should have treated Mr C when he made his claim. These meant Advantage had to treat Mr 
C fairly and not unreasonably reject his claim. And this is why I think it is important for me to 
consider whether anything that Advantage did wrong led to the wrong car being insured 
under Mr Cs policy. This is because  if Advantage had done something wrong, they 
wouldnt have treated Mr C fairly, and they would have unreasonably rejected his claim. 
However, nothing Advantage did wrong led to the wrong car being insured under Mr Cs 
policy, as it was due to a clerical error on his part. Therefore, I dont think Advantages 
rejection of his claim was unreasonable and Im satisfied they treated him fairly. I appreciate Mr C made a clerical error in insuring the wrong car, but the consequence of this 
was that Advantage werent insuring his car. And I think Advantage can only be expected to 
pay claims for items they have agreed to insure, provided they didnt do anything wrong. 
Im not aware of any other cases where Advantage have settled claims where their customer 
was uninsured due to a clerical error on the customers part. And I dont think I need to 
check this, as I have to consider whether Advantage have acted reasonably and in line with 
their obligations in Mr Cs case. And I think they have. And I do not think it can be said to 
represent good industry practice for an insurer to settle a claim in this situation. Insurers 
normally only settle claims for items they are aware they are insuring. I appreciate another 
insurer has told Mr C they would have settled his claim in similar circumstances, but its not 
what Id expect an insurer to do. 
It therefore remains my view that it would not be a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Cs 
complaint to make Advantage settle his claim. Im also satisfied they have provided enough 
in compensation for the poor service they provided to Mr C. But I do think they should refund 
any premium he paid while Advantage was insuring the wrong car. And I am pleased they 
have agreed to do this if Mr C accepts my decision.
Putting things right
As Ive already explained, all Advantage needs to do is refund the premium Mr C paid for the 
period they were insuring the wrong car.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision dated 29 June 2021, I have 
decided Advantage Insurance Company Limited dont have to settle Mr Cs claim or pay him 
further compensation for the poor service they provided to him. But they do have to refund 
the premium Mr C paid for the period they were insuring the wrong car under Mr Cs policy.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman