DRN-3949005
The complaint
Ms S and Mr W complain that Santander UK Plc withdrew a mortgage offer, which led them 
to incur additional costs before securing a mortgage from another lender.
What happened
In October 2021 Ms S and Mr W applied for a mortgage with Santander. Santander 
assessed their application and issued a mortgage offer on 11 November 2021. Following 
further checks it then withdrew the offer on 16 November.
Ms S and Mr W complained. They said it wasnt fair or in line with the terms of the mortgage 
offer for it to be withdrawn. They said they were intending to use the mortgage funds to 
repay debt elsewhere, and the withdrawal of the mortgage offer meant they were unable to 
do so. Although they secured a mortgage from another lender in early 2022, this meant they 
had to pay interest on the other lending for longer than they otherwise would have done.
Ms S and Mr W say they were intending to use the mortgage funds to repay two loans:
A bridging loan lent to a limited liability partnership (LLP), of which Ms S and Mr W 
are members, and which was guaranteed by them as individuals. Ms S and Mr W say 
that because of the delay, the loan was not paid back by the due date of 21 October 
and when it was repaid, in January 2022, they were charged late payment fees and 
interest of £14,581.76.
A personal loan of £25,000 at 6.7% taken out in 2019. Because of the increased 
costs in repaying the bridging loan, Ms S and Mr W were unable to repay the 
outstanding balance of this loan as theyd planned.
In addition, the mortgage they were able to secure from the other lender was at a fixed rate 
of 1.39%, compared to the 0.99% Santander had offered them. They want Santander to 
refund the lost interest and fees, and the difference between the two mortgage rates. 
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint. She said Santander was entitled to 
refuse Ms S and Mr Ws mortgage application. But it should have carried out proper checks 
and declined it before issuing an offer, not after. She said that it was reasonable for 
Santander to have declined their application by 21 October 2021. It had therefore caused 
delay in Ms S and Mr W obtaining a mortgage elsewhere by 26 days, and should refund the 
additional interest paid over that period  but only in respect of the personal loan. And she 
said Santander should pay £250 compensation for their trouble and upset.
Neither party accepted that. Santander didnt think the complaint should be upheld. And Ms 
S and Mr W didnt think the suggested compensation went far enough. So the complaint 
comes to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When it receives a mortgage application, a lender will need to carry out various checks and 
enquiries, and consider the information its given, in deciding whether to lend. Its important 
to note that theres never an obligation to lend, and neither is there an obligation to give 
reasons for refusing an application.
However, an application should be considered fairly and in line with relevant law and 
regulations. Of particular relevance to this complaint is the part of the mortgage rules that 
says that when a lender issues a mortgage offer it is a binding offer  which means that 
(subject to any lawful conditions included in the offer) the lender is bound by the offer and 
cannot withdraw it.
In this case, Santander issued a binding offer subject to various conditions set out in the 
offer. It says it was entitled to withdraw the offer relying on one of those conditions.
Ive considered what it says about that. But I dont agree. The offer was withdrawn because 
of the outcome of Santanders underwriting checks, based on information in Santanders 
possession before it issued the offer. Had Santander completed its checks before issuing the 
offer, the offer would never have been issued.
In the circumstances, I dont think it was fair for Santander to withdraw a binding offer when 
nothing had changed since it was issued based on information already in its possession. 
However, I also dont think I can fairly say that Santander should have lent to Ms S and 
Mr W. As Ive said, theres no general obligation to lend. The mistake Santander made here 
was issuing an offer before completing its underwriting checks. Had that mistake not been 
made, the offer would never have been issued. I dont think Santander would ever have lent 
to Ms S and Mr W and so I dont think I can fairly find that it should have honoured the offer.
It follows that it wouldnt be fair for me to require Santander to refund the difference between 
the interest rate Ms S and Mr W actually took in January 2022 and the rate in the Santander 
offer. Had things gone as they should, that rate would never have been available to Ms S 
and Mr W and therefore this is not a loss that flows from Santanders mistake.
I do think that had Santander carried out its full checks before issuing the offer, not only 
would the offer never have been issued but Ms S and Mr Ws application would have been 
declined sooner. If that had happened, its likely theyd have been able to apply to the other 
lender sooner, and complete on that mortgage sooner than they did. 
Putting things right
If that had happened, theyd have had access to the mortgage funds sooner, and paid off the 
other lending sooner.
I cant require Santander to compensate them for additional interest paid to the bridging 
loan. Ms S and Mr W were not the borrowers of that loan, the LLP was. And therefore it is 
the LLP, not Ms S and Mr W, that has suffered a loss through a delay in repaying the 
bridging loan. My remit only allows me to compensate complainants for losses they 
themselves have suffered; I cannot compensate third parties. 
I appreciate Ms S and Mr W are guarantors of the LLPs loan, and members of the LLP. But 
an LLP is a legal person in its own right, separate and distinct from its members. The loan 
was in the LLPs name, and any additional interest is a loss suffered by the LLP, not Ms S 
and Mr W directly themselves.However, I accept that had the mortgage completed sooner, its likely less funds would have 
been needed to repay the bridging loan and so more would have been available to repay the 
personal loan. 
I agree with our investigator that had Santander completed its underwriting checks before 
issuing an offer, its likely it would have been able to decline Ms S and Mr Ws application on 
or around 21 October. This is 26 days before Santander withdrew the mortgage offer, and to 
that extent Santander caused a delay of 26 days in the completion of Ms S and Mr Ws 
mortgage.
I dont think it would be fair to require Santander to lend additional funds to replace the 
interest paid to the bridging loan because of the delay which Ms S and Mr W would 
otherwise have used to repay the personal loan. Thats because it would never have lent to 
them had nothing gone wrong in this case.
Nor do I think it would be fair to require Santander to pay Ms S and Mr W the amount they 
would have used to clear the loan. Had nothing gone wrong, Ms S and Mr W would not have 
repaid this debt completely  they would have shifted it from the personal loan to the 
mortgage. But given the bridging loan term expired in October, before this application had 
been completed, there would always have been additional interest on the bridging loan and 
so I dont think Ms S and Mr W would have been in a position to reduce the personal loan 
balance by much more than they did. 
In the circumstances, I agree that a fair resolution to this complaint is for Santander to refund 
the difference in interest between the personal loan and the mortgage it was consolidated to, 
for 26 days. 
Ms S and Mr W will need to provide Santander with a statement for the personal loan 
covering this period. Santander should then calculate the amount by which Ms S and Mr W 
reduced the personal loan balance on completion of their mortgage in January 2022, and 
refund them the difference between 26 days interest on this sum at the personal loan rate of 
6.7% and 26 days interest at the mortgage rate of 1.39%. It should add simple annual 
interest of 8% running from 16 November 2021 to date of payment. Santander may deduct 
income tax at the standard rate from the 8% interest element of my award, as required by 
HMRC, but it should tell Ms S and Mr W what it has deducted so they can reclaim the tax if 
theyre entitled to do so.
Finally, I think offering Ms S and Mr W a mortgage only to withdraw the offer a few days later 
caused Ms S and Mr W confusion, upset and inconvenience. I think £250 is fair 
compensation in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman