DRN-2455712
The complaint
 Mr D complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr D acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement. The car was in 
an accident in early 2018 and was written off. Mr Ds insurance company replaced the car 
with a new car, in agreement with BMW, in April 2018. 
Mr D has experienced a knocking or rattling from the rear of the car on a number of 
occasions. He says he took the vehicle to the dealership four times in 2018 and four times in 
2019 and the problem is yet to be resolved. 
Mr D complained to BMW about the quality of the car. They said that because itd been 
replaced by Mr Ds insurance company, they were no longer responsible for its quality. 
Unhappy with this, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr D and felt that BMW were responsible for the quality of the car. He thought that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, and that Mr D should be able to reject it. 
As BMW didnt agree with our investigator, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a hire purchase agreement regulated by the 
Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  so we can consider a complaint relating to it. 
BMW have said that because Mr Ds car was replaced by his insurance company following 
an accident, they arent the supplier of the goods anymore, so they arent responsible for a 
complaint about their quality. 
The hire purchase agreement that Mr D entered sets out what should happen if the vehicle is 
declared a total loss by the insurance company, as happened here. It says that Mr D must 
pay any insurance money to BMW. There is no clause in the agreement that sets out how or 
when BMW might agree for the insurance company to replace the vehicle.
Ive reviewed the documents provided by BMW, and I can see that Mr Ds insurance 
company asked if they would accept a replacement vehicle. BMW set out to the insurance 
company exactly what specification any new vehicle would need to meet. 
Once theyd found a suitable replacement vehicle, Mr Ds insurance company sent these 
details to BMW, and BMW confirmed that they would accept the proposed vehicle as a 
replacement. BMW wrote to Mr D to tell him that his agreement remained as it was before 
the total loss, but any mention of the vehicle now referred to the new vehicle, and not the old 
one. 
I dont think this was something that BMW had to do. The agreement allowed them to 
receive the sum of the insurance claim, but instead they chose to negotiate with Mr Ds 
insurer and accept a replacement vehicle. 
The hire purchase agreement between Mr D and BMW is one where BMW retain ownership 
of the vehicle and hire it to Mr D for an agreed monthly payment, until a number of conditions 
have been met. Following the replacement of the vehicle by the insurance company, this 
remained the case. So, I think that BMW have agreed for the insurance company to replace 
the vehicle they own, and they have agreed to hire this new vehicle to Mr D under the same 
terms as the old one. I find that BMW are still supplying the vehicle to Mr D, and remain 
responsible for its quality. 
So, Ive gone on to consider the satisfactory quality of Mr Ds vehicle.  
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car acquired was brand new with a cash price of around £37,000. So, I think its 
fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher than a 
cheaper, more road worn vehicle and that it could be used, free from defects, for a 
considerable period of time. 
Mr D has reported a knocking or rattling noise coming from the rear of the vehicle and has 
taken it back to the dealership to investigate on a number of occasions. Ive seen a job sheet 
that suggests that multiple fixes have been attempted, but none lasts for very long before the 
noise returns. It seems that the cause of the noise cant be identified, or a long lasting repair 
cant be made. 
I havent seen any evidence that the noise has been caused by fair wear to the vehicle, or by 
driving style or third party damage. It seems more likely that there is an inherent fault with 
the vehicle which causes the noise to return repeatedly.
As the car cannot be used free from defect and having regard to its age and mileage at the 
time it was acquired, Im satisfied that the ongoing problem with the noise makes the car of 
unsatisfactory quality. 
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, BMW should do to put things 
right. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not 
to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the 
goods. That repair should be done in a reasonable time, and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer.I think that Mr D has allowed ample opportunity for the fault to be found and repaired. Hes 
taken the vehicle back to the dealership on at least eight occasions, and Ive seen evidence 
that a courtesy car was provided on seven occasions, meaning that the car had to be kept 
for an extended period of time. So, I find that he should be allowed his final right to reject the 
car. This means the car is collected from Mr D, the finance agreement is brought to an end, 
and Mr D has his deposit refunded (plus interest).
 
Mr Ds deposit contribution was £14,920.62, but £500 of this was a manufacturer 
contribution, so the total to be returned to Mr D is £14,420.62 plus 8% simple yearly interest 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Our investigator recommended that BMW pay Mr D £250 compensation for the impact the 
situation has had on him. Mr D has had to make multiple trips to the dealership in order to try 
and get the fault repaired and has had to drive the car with the fault for an extended period 
of time. Overall, Im satisfied that this compensation reflects the distress and inconvenience 
experienced by Mr D.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to: 
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr D
Refund Mr Ds deposit of £14,420.62 plus 8% yearly simple interest calculated from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr D £250 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove the finance agreement from Mr Ds credit file
If BMW considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman