DRN-3244925
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. because it declined their travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A booked a holiday to France in August 2019. They intended to travel on 29 
August  5 September 2020. However, they decided to cancel their trip due to the COVID-19 
pandemic and the restrictions placed on travelling to France. Mr and Mrs A claimed for the 
unused accommodation which was £2,200 as they were unable to recover the costs from the 
agent. 
Mapfre declined their claim saying that Mr and Mrs A didnt have an active policy at the time. 
It said the policy covered them for the period 1 May 2019  30 April 2020. And so, when Mr 
and Mrs A cancelled their trip after this period, there was effectively no cover in place. 
Our investigator agreed with Mapfre. He explained that although Mr and Mrs A had an active 
policy at the time they booked their trip, there was no active policy in place at the time they 
cancelled. He also acknowledged there were travel restrictions placed on their intended 
destination in August 2020  which compelled them to cancel their holiday. However, he 
maintained there was no cover in place to consider the claim against. 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the outcome of his investigation and said that there was 
effectively no good reason to renew their policy with Mapfre once itd expired, or to source 
another policy with another provider, given insurers were adding exclusions to their policies 
owing to COVID- 19 outbreak. They highlighted it wouldve been difficult to find any insurer 
that wouldve accepted that risk. And so, theyd like an ombudsman to review their 
complaint. Now, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are the same as 
those already explained by our investigator. Im satisfied there was no cover in place at the 
time Mr and Mrs A cancelled their trip. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs As policy was purchased in April 2019 and intended to cover the period 1 May 
2019  30 April 2020. And so, for a claim to be brought outside of that period, like Mr and 
Mrs A did, thered need to be an active policy in place for it to be considered alongside. Ive 
not seen any evidence that there was an active policy in place when they decided to cancel 
their trip in August 2020 and so Im satisfied there was no cover in place. 
Mr and Mrs As policy renewed automatically in May 2020, however Mr A called Mapfre and 
cancelled the policy on 13 May. And so, I couldnt reasonably say that Mapfre made an error 
here. Mr and Mrs A have subsequently said that there were reasons for the cancellation, 
mainly being that they were placed on furlough and they were aware of travel restrictions 
coming into place. But I dont think that makes a material difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. I say that because, put simply, theres no active policy to consider this claim 
against. Had they allowed the policy renewal to continue, then perhaps some of there 
arguments wouldve been considered material, but for the reasons Ive explained, theyre not 
relevant to the outcome here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman