DRN-3420387
The complaint
Mr N complains with the help of a professional representative that Phoenix Life Limited 
(Phoenix) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer out of his Occupational Pension Scheme 
(OPS) and into a Personal Pension.
What happened
Mr N was advised by Abbey Life (now Phoenix) in December 1993 to transfer his
Occupational Pension to an Abbey Life Personal Pension Plan. For ease, Ill refer to the 
pension provider as Phoenix.
In 1994, the regulator at the time, the Securities and Investment Board, instructed authorised 
firms to review certain pension business, including pension transfers that had happened 
between 29th April 1988 and 30th June 1994.
Phoenix carried  out a review and found that Mr N had suffered a loss because his personal 
pension benefits were lower than those he would have received from his employers scheme 
if he hadnt transferred out.
To compensate for his loss, Phoenix made an offer to him on 17 January 2000 to add units 
to his policy with a value of £11,625.42. Mr N accepted the offer on 7 February 2000.
Phoenix later identified further redress was due and wrote to Mr N on 18 September 2000 to 
inform him they were adding further units to his policy with a value of £2,369.06.
More recently, Fair Return have raised some concerns on Mr Ns behalf, about the way the 
redress calculation was carried out. They say its not clear what retirement age was used in 
the calculations and inadequate assumptions have been made. To resolve the complaint, it 
said Mr N ought to be awarded redress in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FG17/9 
guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit transfers.
Phoenix responded to say that as the advice had been assessed as part of the Pension 
Review and redress had been paid to settle the matter they did not believe they had to 
consider Mr Ns complaint further.
Our investigator looked into matters and found that Phoenix didnt have to do anything to put 
matters right. He said the retirement age used was 60 and this was in line with guidance and 
having looked through the calculations he couldnt see that it had done something wrong.
Fair Return responded to say discretionary increases hadnt been applied and inadequate 
charges had been assumed in the future charges section.
Our investigator pointed out that the previous scheme didnt make any mention of 
discretionary increases in the policy booklet so he was satisfied they didnt apply here. And 
that the assumptions used for charges were set by the regulator and he was satisfied the 
assumptions used were in line with regulatory guidelines.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree the Pension Review process was the correct way to address this 
situation. And for the avoidance of doubt, I think it was the correct way to address the 
transfer back in 2000. The regulator intended it to be applied in these circumstances.
Under the Pension Review (both the SIB specifications and the updated FG17/9 guidance) if 
a firm has carried out a review and communicated this to the customer  it is not required to 
look at the matter again. Providing the review addressed the circumstances of the complaint 
and had been carried out in line with the relevant guidance. I think this represents a fair and 
reasonable position when considering this complaint.
Phoenixs position
Phoenixs position is that it has already considered Mr Ns transfer in-line with the SIB 
Pension Review guidance starting with Pension Transfers and Opt-Outs Review of Past 
Business  Statement of Policy on 25 October 1994 and updated by subsequent regulators 
thereafter. And so, it has no obligation under the guidance to look at this again.
Mr Ns representatives position
Mr Ns representative says that the review in 2000 wasnt carried out correctly and the 
calculation should be re-done but instead using the updated FG17/9 review guidance. 
Was there a mistake in the original review?
The regulator provided assumptions and a framework for firms to use when carrying out the 
loss calculations. At the time most pension providers got specialist agencies or set up 
specialist teams to do the reviews. And businesses carrying out the reviews were subject to 
external quality checks by the regulator. In our experience the large majority of calculations 
have been calculated in line with the regulators guidance.
Phoenix has provided us with what appears to be a full file in terms of the information 
relevant to its Pension Review on Mr Ns case. I can see they were able to attain key 
information about his previous scheme and that it carried out calculations to ascertain Mr Ns 
loss at the time. It also set out the assumptions it had used at the time and I can see that Mr 
N accepted its offer. Additional units were added after the calculation was re-run in August 
2000 as required due to updated regulatory guidance.
Mr Ns representatives said that there were mistakes within the review but didnt elaborate 
beyond stating parts of the calculation were incorrect. As the investigator set out, Phoenix 
selected an assumed retirement age in line with the regulatory guidance and explained this 
assumption at the time to Mr N. It also gathered information about the scheme and its 
treatment of discretionary increases  I can see there was a multi-layered sign-off process 
with checks put in place. And discretionary increases were considered but not applied as the 
scheme booklet made no mention of any being applied. 
We are not a checking service and we dont have the actuarial capability to recreate or 
check the calculations. And Fair Return havent provided any further arguments in relation to 
these points. Ive considered Fair Returns rudimentary points, but Ive not seen anything to suggest Phoenix did anything wrong. As it looks like it complied with the regulators 
guidance.
In response to the investigators point that Phoenix had applied charges in line with the 
regulatory guidelines, Fair Return did respond to say the regulator allowed firms to make 
assumptions as long as these were plausible and adequate. Its point being they were 
inadequate.
The SIB review says, future expenses to the personal pension should be the normal basis of 
charges applying to that contract at the date of review. I can see Phoenix have applied 
future charges in its calculation which it says is in line with the SIB guidance. Phoenix 
administered the contract, so it knew the charges that would apply and so I think its more 
likely than not (considering the calculation sheet shows it input future charges) that it did 
comply with the regulatory guidance here.
Conclusion
The Pension Review was a one-off exercise and in 2000 Mr N agreed a final settlement in 
respect of the transfer advice he received. Only in limited circumstances would I look beyond 
that agreement. That would include where the calculation was done incorrectly. But the 
evidence Ive seen suggests it likely was done correctly. And so I dont think theres any 
reason for me to require Phoenix to redo the redress calculation using the FG/17 guidance.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman