DRN-2331575
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Europa Group Limited trading as Ingenie Services (Ingenie) 
cancelled her car insurance and then increased her premium when they sold her a new 
policy. 
What happened
Miss K renewed her car insurance policy in early May 2019. She arranged to pay in monthly 
instalments and set up a direct debit to do so. Unfortunately, the account details she 
provided for the direct debit were for a savings account which didnt accept direct debits. 
The finance provider sent Miss K a letter dated 16 May 2019. This said that Miss Ks 
payment hadnt been collected successfully and she needed to contact them to make 
payment before 7 June 2019. The letter also said theyd inform Miss Ks broker, Ingenie, 
who might take steps to cancel her insurance. Ingenie say they also sent her a letter  dated 
17 May 2019  which said shed still not paid the premium due and that theyd cancel her 
insurance at midnight on 24 May 2019. 
Miss K gave her mothers email address when she set up the policy and Ingenie said they 
emailed the same information on 17 May.
On 28 May 2019, Miss K received an email from Ingenie, again at her mothers email 
address, telling her that her insurance had been cancelled with effect from 25 May 2019. 
Miss K complained that Ingenie had cancelled her car insurance without giving her enough 
notice. She says she didnt realise that her savings account wouldnt accept direct debits. 
And, she says, she didnt receive the 16 May letter from the finance provider until 29 May 
2019 and didnt receive the 17 May letter or email at all. 
Miss K also complained that she didnt get an email telling her that Ingenie had cancelled her 
policy until 28 May so she was unaware that she was driving uninsured for three days. And 
shes unhappy that when she wanted to reinstate her policy, the premium had increased 
significantly, despite it being only two weeks after she originally purchased the policy.
Our investigators view was that although the customer service could have been better, 
Ingenie hadnt done anything wrong. She said she could see Miss K had been charged twice 
for having a black box fitted to her car  so she arranged for a refund of £105 to 
compensate Miss K for this. And she could see that Ingenie had waived their usual £35 set 
up fee when setting up Miss Ks second policy, which she thought was fair given the 
circumstances.
Miss K wasnt happy with this outcome. She was very upset that shed been driving for three 
days without insurance. She said the main issue was that the email to say the insurance had 
been cancelled came three days after the cancellation  she felt she should have been told 
immediately. And she remained unhappy that the cost of the policy had increased by so 
much in a short time. Miss K asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint  which I did.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 October 2020. In that decision I said I didnt think Ingenie 
had treated Miss K fairly. I said that although Ingenie had complied with their own terms and 
conditions by sending Miss K an email 7 days before cancelling her insurance, I didnt think 
this was enough. I said:
Im inclined to say Ingenie havent treated Miss K fairly. I think they should have given
Miss K more notice. And I think they should have made more of an effort to contact her 
and check that shed received their correspondence. Given the circumstances and the 
fact that this was just an administrative error, Id like to have seen a phone call, text, or 
follow up email, before they cancelled her insurance.
Im inclined to say that if Ingenie had given Miss K more notice and followed up with her 
she would have resolved the payment issue and her insurance wouldnt have been 
cancelled. So, I think Ingenie need to put Miss K back in the position she would have 
been in if her insurance hadnt been cancelled, including removing any cancellation 
markers if theyve been applied.
Miss K accepted my provisional decision. But Ingenie werent happy with my view. They said 
they felt theyd given Miss K reasonable notice and sent clear communication to Miss K at 
the email address shed given as her preferred method of communication.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Ingenies position that they sent Miss K a clear email seven days before 
cancelling her policy, Im not satisfied this was enough. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, I dont think Ingenie treated Miss K fairly. Im satisfied that Ingenie should have 
tried to contact Miss K again before cancelling her policy. And Im satisfied that shed have 
paid for her insurance if theyd done so. So, my decision remains unchanged and Im 
upholding Miss Ks complaint.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said Ingenie should put Miss K back in the position shed have 
been in if Ingenie hadnt cancelled her insurance. That means paying her the difference 
between what shes paid Ingenie for her new policy and what she would have paid if her 
original policy hadnt been cancelled. I also said Ingenie should pay Miss K 8% simple 
interest on the above, and that they should pay her £150 for the stress, upset and 
inconvenience of finding herself away from home in the car and uninsured, which was 
exacerbated by being a young and relatively inexperienced driver with her younger sister in 
the car with her.
The responses Ive received to my provisional decision havent changed my mind so Im now 
directing Ingenie to pay this compensation to Miss K. Im also directing them to provide 
Miss K with a letter explaining that her policy was cancelled in error.
My final decision
As Ive set out above, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ks complaint. Europa Group Limited 
(trading as Ingenie Services) need to pay Miss K:
The difference between what shes paid them for her new policy and what she would 
have paid if her original policy hadnt been cancelled;
8% simple interest on the above*; and£150 compensation for the stress, upset and inconvenience of finding herself away 
from home in the car and uninsured.
In addition, Ingenie need to remove any internal and external cancellation markers (if theyve
been applied) and provide Miss K with a letter explaining that the policy was cancelled in
error so that she doesnt need to declare the cancellation in future.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
* If Ingenie consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Miss K how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
Miss K a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman