DRN-4508331
Complaint
Mr L has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr L with a loan for £3,000.00 in February 2023. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £144.87.
I understand that Mr L also took out a credit card with 118 118 Money. But were looking at 
the complaint about that matter separately. And this decision is only looking at whether         
118 118 Money acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr L when it provided him with his loan.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr L and 118 118 Money had told us. And she 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr L unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint be upheld. 
Mr L disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr L could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Ls application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr L could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr L has said that the monthly payments for the loan were unaffordable 
to him and caused him hardship so he shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr L and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Ls first loan with 118 118 Money. Even 
though this was the case, given the circumstances  in particular the amount being borrowed 
in combination with the total charge for credit - I would have expected 118 118 Money to find 
out a bit more about Mr Ls actual living expenses before it decided to lend to him. 
That said, Im not in a position to say that obtaining further information on Mr Ls actual living 
costs would have made a difference to 118 118 Moneys decision to lend in this instance. I 
say this because despite having been asked to provide information regarding his financial 
position at the time in the form of bank statements, Mr L has been unable to do so. And 
given just how recent this application was, I dont think that it is unreasonable to require this 
information even if Mr L is no longer a customer of the same bank.
So I simply dont have sufficient evidence to support that Mr L finances at the time were such 
that when his committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were 
deducted from his monthly income, he didnt have the funds to sustainably make the 
repayments due under this agreement. I say this particularly as he has been up to date on 
this loan and the credit file Mr L has provided indicates hes been making his other credit 
payments too.
I accept that Mr L says that his actual circumstances at the time were worse than what         
118 118 Money concluded. Im also sorry to hear that hes been off sick from work and has 
found things difficult. I also accept that if 118 118 Money had gone into the depth of checks 
Mr L appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements  its possible 
it may have reached a different decision.
But given Ive not been provided with the information to make this conclusion and this is not 
actually what 118 118 Money needed to find out, Ive simply not been provided with enough 
to show me that these payments were actually unaffordable for Mr L  let alone that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown this to be the case.
As this is the case, Im afraid that I cannot reasonably conclude that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have shown that this loan was unaffordable Mr L. Therefore, Ive 
not been persuaded that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr L. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr L unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr L. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman