DRN-2577712
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance (Santander). 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr A has been represented by Miss A at times during this complaint but for ease, and
because Mr As name is on the finance agreement, I will refer to him throughout.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Santander, but I dont currently agree with the investigators opinion.
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Santander, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr A. The car here
was around six years old and had completed about 57,700 miles. So, I think a reasonable
person would expect some wear and tear to be present, but I dont think they would think the
car was of acceptable quality if the engine was stuttering and cutting out.
The relevant legislation says that if a fault occurs within the first six months the onus is on
the business to demonstrate the faults were not present when the car was supplied and
when they had responsibility for its quality.
Mr As car was recovered due to a breakdown in April 2019, within the first six months, so I
would expect Santander to demonstrate that the fault the car experienced was not present or
developing at the point it was supplied to Mr A.
A repair was carried out to the car by a franchised dealership in June 2019. That repair has
clearly not been successful as the independent engineer has noted the continued presence
of fault codes relating to the turbo boost sensor and crankshaft position sensor. These were
the issues that were initially diagnosed in April 2019.
I think Santanders responsibility is to demonstrate that initial fault, the one reported in April
2019, was not present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr A. I dont think theyve
currently done that as theyve simply suggested the fault has not been repaired.
I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr A to be aware he would need authorisation from the
dealership and Santander before completing a repair to the car. Hes used a franchised
dealership who, I think its reasonable to say, would be experts on Mr As car.
Santander say that their investigation has been impeded by the previous repairs. I dont think
that can be the case as its clear the faults that currently exist are the ones that were there in
the beginning.
In the absence of evidence from Santander that the faults were not present at the point of
supply I think, on balance, given the limited mileage completed at the point of failure and the
short amount of time the car had been in Mr As possession, that they probably were.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to fix the
fault. I understand that Mr A didnt give Santander that opportunity but if he had I dont think
the situation would have been likely to be any different. I say that because Mr A had the
repairs completed at a main franchised dealership and I think its fair to say they are experts
on the car Mr A took receipt of.
The relevant legislation says that if the repair attempt fails the business should then allow
the consumer to reject the vehicle and I think that is the best resolution here.
Im expecting to tell Santander to allow Mr A to reject the car and to terminate his finance
agreement with them.
Theyll need to refund any deposit that was paid by Mr A although I cant currently see that
any was paid. If there is a refund of a deposit the business will need to add interest to that
refund as Mr A has been deprived of that money.
Mr A has clearly been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to take the car in for
repairs, make arrangements to be available during an independent inspection, and pursue a
claim through this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. So, I think
Santander should provide £250 compensation.
Ive asked Mr A about the loss of use hes had from the car. Hes provided an odometer
reading that shows the current mileage as 61,681 miles. The mileage in October 2019 when
the car was inspected by the independent engineer was 61,657 so I think its clear the car
has not really been driven since then.Mr A has explained the fault first appeared in April 2019, but Ive not been provided with the
mileage that was on the car at that point and its not been possible to clarify if the car has
been driven during that period.
The mileage at the beginning of the agreement was 57,500 so it seems that Mr A managed
to cover 4,100 in the vehicle in the five or so months he had the car before the turbo boost
sensor and crankshaft position sensor issues were first identified. Thats about average
mileage so Im persuaded, on the evidence I currently have available to me, that Mr A had
reasonable use of the car from inception to the independent engineers report on 21 October
2019.
Overall, I think Santander should refund some finance instalments in respect of lack of use
and, in the circumstances, it would be fair to refund all instalments paid since the
independent inspection on 21 October 2019.
My provisional decision
Im currently expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to:
allow Mr A to reject the car and end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr A;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment
to the date of settlement;
refund all finance instalments Mr A has paid since the independent engineers report
that was provided on 21 October 2019. Add 8% simple interest to this refund from the
date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr A £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
remove any adverse reports that may have been made to Mr As credit file in relation
to this issue.
Mr A provided some evidence that demonstrated the deposit that had been paid and he also 
provided a receipt for £150 that he had to pay to have his car recovered to the dealership to 
be repaired.
Santander disputed my findings. They said they had followed the relevant legislation and as 
the supplying dealership had not been given an opportunity to repair the fault, they should 
not be help responsible for any failed repair. They did not agree that the repairer in this case 
could be considered the supplying dealership.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think its fair to suggest Mr A would have known, or had been told, he would need 
authorisation from the supplying dealership when arranging for his car to be repaired. It was 
recovered to a franchised dealership and, as Ive explained, I think its reasonable to suggest 
they would be experts in repairing the car. 
I also dont think Santander have been disadvantaged by Mr A taking the car to a main 
dealership. I think its likely the main dealership would have been better equipped to deal 
with a fault to this make of car as they would be more familiar with it.Putting things right
Its not fair to keep Mr A waiting any longer for a resolution he could fairly have expected to 
have achieved much earlier and Im not persuaded to change my provisional decision.
Mr A has demonstrated that he incurred a charge to have the car recovered. That cost was 
incurred as a consequence of the vehicle being of unsatisfactory quality so Santander 
should refund it. And as Mr A has been deprived of that money whilst waiting for a resolution 
of his complaint they should add 8% interest to that refund.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
allow Mr A to reject the car and end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr A;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment
to the date of settlement;
refund all finance instalments Mr A has paid since the independent engineers report
that was provided on 21 October 2019. Add 8% simple interest to this refund from the
date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr A £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
remove any adverse reports that may have been made to Mr As credit file in relation
to this issue.
refund the £150 Mr A spent to have his car recovered and add 8% simple interest per 
year to that refund from the date of payment (6/6/2019) to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman