DRN-3933571
The complaint
Mr M is a sole trader, trading as H. He complains that ClearBank Limited wont refund 
payments he didnt make.
ClearBank partners with Tide to provide accounts for its customers. For ease, Ive generally 
referred to ClearBank throughout the decision as its ultimately responsible for the complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
ClearBank has seemingly accepted these disputed payments were unauthorised. I 
agree. Its clear Mr M didnt go through the agreed steps to consent to these 
payments using Apple Pay, which is whats needed to regard a payment as 
authorised in line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Instead, he 
was tricked into completing the process to load his card on to someone elses device 
 and they made the payments.
However, ClearBank has submitted that Mr M failed with gross negligence to comply 
with the terms of the account and keep his personalised security details safe. So it 
doesnt think it should refund the unauthorised payments, in line with the PSRs. 
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded ClearBank has 
shown thats the case. Ill explain why. 
Mr M received a call from a private number from someone pretending to be from 
Tide. Theyd personal information about him and said his details may have been 
compromised from using a certain delivery company, which he had used that week. 
In these circumstances, I can see how Mr M trusted the caller was from Tide. I think 
lots of people wouldve done. 
The caller explained there had been suspicious activity on his account and to sort 
this out, theyd need to verify it was Mr M by asking him to share a code theyd send 
to him by text. 
Mr M said he was panicked at the time by what hed been told and was struggling to 
use his phone while he was still on the call. So he focussed on this code and shared 
it. He said he was also reassured by the timing and sender of the message  he 
believed he was talking to Tide, and when he was told to expect it, a message came 
through from them.   
I accept the message contains a warning and refers to setting up Apple Pay. But I 
can also understand how Mr M didnt read this in full when he was panicked  
particularly given how the code is in a different colour and underlined in the message. 
Adding to the mix the timing of the message and his trust in the caller, Im not 
convinced that he acted with very significant carelessness to conclude he failed with 
gross negligence. 
ClearBank submits that Mr M ought to have been concerned that the message 
mentioned Apple Pay when he uses an Android phone. But the point is that Mr M 
didnt recognise he was adding his card to any device (Apple or otherwise) because 
he didnt read the message in full. Ive already explained why I dont think that meant 
he failed with gross negligence, so this doesnt change my mind. 
ClearBank has also referred to how Mr M breached their terms and conditions by 
sharing the code. But the test Im considering is whether he failed with gross 
negligence to comply with the terms of the account. So its not enough to say he 
breached them. 
Its also highlighted how Mr M didnt act as a reasonable person. That might be the 
case. But Im considering whether his actions fell so far below what a reasonable 
person wouldve done to amount to gross negligence. I dont think thats the case. 
Finally, ClearBank submitted that Mr M ought to have known it wouldnt send a code 
to verify his identity  and that its widely understood its for authenticating payments. 
Firstly, this wasnt to authenticate a payment  it was to complete the steps to set up 
Apple Pay. And while ClearBank are understandably familiar with its security 
processes, that doesnt mean Id expect Mr M to be in the heat of the moment. 
Particularly when codes like this are used by various organisations for various 
purposes, including for verifying someones identity. 
This was clearly a planned and cleverly designed scam, where fraudsters socially 
engineered Mr M into providing a code so they could exploit the card details theyd 
already stolen. From ClearBanks response, it seems Mr M isnt the only customer 
thats been a victim of this. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think ClearBank has shown Mr M failed with gross 
negligence. So I conclude that he isnt liable for the disputed payments and 
ClearBank needs to put things right  by refunding his losses from these payments 
alongside interest to compensate him for the time hes been out of pocket. 
Ive also considered Mr Ms non-financial losses. I understand that ClearBank has 
already paid him £100 to reflect its handling of the matter, which I think is a fair 
reflection of the impact this had on him. So I havent made a further award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. ClearBank Limited must:
Pay Mr M the total of the unauthorised payments, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded.Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman