DRN-2165278
The complaint
Mr N has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc debited his bank account twice for an online 
purchase he made. Hes also unhappy that the refund he received was less than the amount 
debited from his account, due to exchange rate fluctuations.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr N tried to purchase some airline tickets online. He said that he had 
difficulties making payment on the airlines website.
Whilst trying to make payment for the tickets, Mr N received a text from HSBC asking him to 
confirm that he had made the transaction. And it suggested he re-attempt any declined 
transactions. 
Mr N says that he did this. But two payments were authorised instead of one. As a result, Mr 
N complained to HSBC. In its response to Mr N, HSBC said that it credited his account with 
£40 for the inconvenience he had been caused. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns concerns. She explained to Mr N why she wasnt 
upholding his complaint. Mr N explained in his response why he didnt agree with the 
investigators explanations. So, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information Ive seen, it appears that Mr N had difficulties making payment for the 
tickets on the airlines website. This led to HSBC raising a fraud alert and it sending a text to 
Mr N asking him to confirm the transaction.
After confirming the transaction, Mr N has said that he was prompted to reattempt the 
transaction. And this is what he did.
It doesnt seem to me unreasonable or wrong of HSBC to have sent Mr N the fraud alert if it 
had concerns about the activity on his bank account. The purpose of this was to protect 
Mr N, so I think it was a sensible thing for HSBC to have done. And I dont believe that this 
was the cause of the payments being made twice.
I say this because Ive seen the records supplied by HSBC in respect of Mr Ns account. 
These record that after it sent Mr N the fraud alert text, there appear to have been several 
other attempts to make payment in the subsequent 15 minutes after Mr N received the fraud 
alert text from HSBC.
Its not clear to me how this came about, whether through Mr N making multiple further 
attempts as he hadnt received confirmation from the airline, or whether it was through the 
airline attempting to taking payment. 
I do understand that Mr N had a very difficult and frustrating time in trying to get the second 
payment refunded. But, based on what information I do have and for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I simply dont have enough evidence to be able to safely say that the second 
payment was made a result of something HSBC did wrong. 
Mr N has also understandably been concerned that due to exchange rate fluctuations, the 
refund he received was less than the amount taken out of his account. I can see that HSBC 
has paid Mr N £40 for the inconvenience caused by what happened. This amount is more 
than the shortfall in the refund. And, as Ive explained, I dont think HSBC has done anything 
wrong. So, I dont think it needs to do any more as Mr N hasnt suffered a financial loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman