DRN-3608999
The complaint
Mrs H says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly lent to her. She has 
requested that the interest and late payment charges she paid on her account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by Studio Retail to Mrs H. 
The account was opened in October 2018 with Mrs H being given an initial credit limit of 
£100. This limit was then increased four times: in March 2019 to £200, in March 2020 to 
£325, in June 2020 to £450 and finally in October 2020 to £1,500. 
Mrs H says whilst she was happy with her initial credit limit shes unhappy that Studio 
Retail continued to increase her credit limit without checking if she could afford each 
increase. 
Based on the limited information she had about Mrs Hs financial circumstances, our 
adjudicator didnt think Studio Retail had acted unfairly in approving the account opening 
or the way it managed the account. 
As Mrs H didnt agree her complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Studio Retail says it acted as a responsible lender when opening  Mrs Hs account and 
increasing her credit limits. Our adjudicator has set out in some detail why, based on the 
available information, he didnt think Studio Retail lent to Mrs H irresponsibly. 
In making my decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of Studio Retails lending history with 
Mrs H, so as to see if there was a point at which Studio Retail should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean 
Studio Retail ought to have realised that it shouldnt have further increased Mrs Hs credit 
limits.
Having reviewed the complaint myself, including the account history, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator and so dont consider that Ms W lost out due to Studio Retails 
actions in relation to her account. I will explain why. 
When Mrs H opened her account in October 2018, Studio Retail says there were no 
significant signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the 
checks, and taking into account the low opening credit limit of £100 she was given, I dont 
think there is anything to suggest that it would have been unreasonable for Studio Retail to 
have approved the account at this point. 
Studio Retail says that from its checks it was aware that, whilst that Mrs H had other credit 
accounts elsewhere, there were no signs that she was in serious arrears or had gone into 
default with her borrowing. However, it found that she had in the past not made payments in 
time on four other credit accounts. Studio Retail decided still to go ahead with offering Mrs H 
an account with a low opening credit limit. I dont think that was unreasonable. Whilst Studio 
Retail didnt ask Mrs H about her income, I can see that this may have helped it begin to 
build a picture of her financial circumstances at that point. As things stand, however, I cant 
say if its likely that had it done so, it would have seen that Mrs H would have difficulty 
making payments to her account. 
Mrs H has only been able to give us limited information about her financial situation at the 
time. In particular, she hasnt sent us any of her bank statements  from when she was 
operating her Studio Retail account. That means we dont know what proportionate checks 
carried out by Studio Retail would have shown. I see our adjudicator has already explained 
about this to Mrs H. 
Looking at the first three credit limit increases Studio Retail gave Mrs H, I think it might have 
been helpful for Studio Retail to have found out more about Mrs Hs financial situation at 
each stage. But, as Ive said, I dont know what it would have seen had it done so. 
When Studio Retail gave Mrs H her fourth credit limit increase, in October 2020, I think it 
should have requested details of her income, daily expenditure and debts owing elsewhere. 
But, and as Ive explained, we havent seen enough evidence or information to show that 
Mrs H may have been experiencing financial difficulty to the extent that Studio Retail 
shouldnt have increased her credit limit at that point. Mrs H has told us about some 
personal factors that led to her increasing her spending on her account. Unfortunately, 
whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H, that doesnt change things as the key issue is that I 
cant say the increase was likely to have been unaffordable for her. 
It follows that, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Studio Retails 
actions, first in opening the account and then in increasing the credit limits as it did, was 
likely to have caused Mrs H to lose out. And Im not able to say whether further 
enquiries into Mrs Hs circumstances would have led Studio Retail to conclude that it 
should have taken a course of action that was much different to what it did. 
Ive kept in mind all that Mrs H has told us about her ongoing financial difficulties but 
unfortunately this doesnt affect my findings. However, I would expect Studio Retail to 
continue to act with appropriate forbearance in seeking to assist Mrs H in her efforts to find a 
fair and manageable way to pay back any balance that is still owing on her account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman