DRN-1811369
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. declined to carry out a repair to his car under his cosmetic repair insurance policy. He 
wants the dent repaired. 
What happened
Mr H made a claim for repair of a small dent on his cars boot. Mapfre had two engineers 
give their views about the repair and they said the repair couldnt be done at the roadside. 
So Mapfre declined the claim as effective repairs couldnt be carried out. Mr H thought this 
was unfair as hed been told the repair could be carried out. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought two 
repairers had said that they couldnt do the repair effectively. One said, twice, it needed to be 
carried out in a bodyshop and not the roadside. The other said it needed specialised 
equipment. She thought the policy didnt cover every eventuality. Mapfres repairers couldnt 
carry out the repairs. So she thought Mapfre had fairly declined the claim under the policys 
terms and conditions. 
Mr H replied that the dent met the size requirements of the policy. He didnt think it was fair 
that Mapfre appointed repairers who were inappropriate. He said there was nothing in the 
policy that said only roadside repairs would be carried out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration that, although the size of the dent met the policy 
requirement, Mapfre rejected his claim. Our approach in cases like this is to consider 
whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and 
reasonably.
Mr Hs policy was for cosmetic repairs. These are defined in the policy as for minor dents or 
damage. Mapfre declined the claim relying on a policy exclusion:
10. if the Repairer, on attending and inspecting Your Vehicle does not consider that a Repair 
can be effectively carried out, then the claim will be declined:
Mapfre explained that the repair couldnt be effectively carried out by a mobile repairer and 
required a bodyshop. 
Ive looked at Mapfres file. Its repairs are carried out by mobile repairers. Mr H thought that 
Mapfre should use repairers appropriate to the work required. But I dont think its unusual 
for cosmetic repairs to be carried out at the roadside only, though I accept that this isnt 
explicitly stated in the policy. I also think its up to Mapfre to decide which repairers it 
authorises. 
The first technician said the dent met the size requirements for a cosmetic repair, but he said 
that due to its location it required a bodyshop to effectively carry this out. This repairer 
further said attempted roadside repair would cause the paintwork to crack. 
Mapfre sent photographs to another of its repairers which said the repair would require 
specialised equipment. Mapfre said the dent therefore didnt meet the requirements for 
cosmetic repair. 
So two repairers said the repair couldnt be effectively carried out. And so I think it was fair 
and reasonable, and within the policy terms and conditions, for Mapfre to reject the claim. I 
therefore dont require Mapfre to pay for the repair of the dent.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman