DRN-4248128
The complaint
Miss K complains that Freemans Plc (Freemans) irresponsibly granted her a catalogue 
account she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss K entered into an agreement with Freemans to have access to credit with an account 
that was opened for her in July 1996. 
There is very little further information that Freemans still holds about the account, which is 
not unusual after so much time. But Freemans has been able to confirm that a number of 
credit limit increases were granted, the last one being in January 2014 which took the credit 
limit up to £5,000. 
Miss K got into difficulty with managing her account in or around February 2022. 
Miss K brought her complaint to us in November 2022. She says that Freemans didnt 
complete adequate affordability checks when it opened her account. 
Freemans didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment 
to check Miss Ks financial circumstances before granting her each credit limit increase. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Because Miss K didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Freemans will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Miss Ks complaint is that Freemans made credit available to her that was unaffordable. 
Given that this service is only able to look into complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending from April 2007 and going forwards, I am not able to comment further 
about the merits of the decision to grant Miss K the credit in July 1996.
Before granting any increased credit limit, I would have expected Freemans to look into 
Miss Ks financial situation. But given that I have no information about what happened when 
the limit was increased to £5,000 in January 2014, or for any previous increases to the level 
of credit, I cant say whether Freemans gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Miss K about her ability to repay her account on each occasion. And 
although its likely to have carried out some form of credit check at the time, I cannot make a 
finding on whether those checks were proportionate based on the vary limited information 
thats available. 
Its certainly possible that Freemans failed to make adequate checks before providing 
Miss K with the further credit. But even if thats true, based on what Ive seen I dont 
consider that better enquiries would have caused it to think the opening credit limit it gave 
her was unaffordable. 
I say this because, taking into account what we know about Miss Ks income and financial 
situation at the time, the £5,000 credit limit appears likely to have been manageable. 
Miss K has provided us with some bank statements, covering the period before 2014. 
Miss K also gave us a credit report dated February 2023. Unfortunately, being so recent, 
this report doesnt help me in assessing whether Miss K should have been granted the 
most recent credit increase, in January 2014. Miss K also sent us tax returns but again 
these all post-date the last lending decision that Freemans made on the account which is 
the event Im looking into. 
Ive looked at the various bank statements Miss K has sent us. But since I am looking at 
whether Freemans made a fair lending decision in January 2014, I have focussed on the 
statements from before that time. Ive seen that Miss K was making regular use of her 
bank account overdraft facility and then going into credit when she received income, 
principally by way of state benefits. Ive also noted that in 2013 Miss K was making regular 
payments to a bank loan and also a car loan that appears to have started in late 2013. At 
the same time Miss K was making regular deposits to a separate ISA savings account. 
I therefore agree with our adjudicator that Miss Ks overall financial situation appears to 
have been relatively stable and doesnt suggest that her circumstances were deteriorating 
to any significant extent before she was given the last credit limit increase by Freemans. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
further evidence from Miss K to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
a more thorough affordability check would have led Freemans to think that the additional 
credit it provided to Miss K was unreasonable. 
I know that Miss K will be disappointed with my decision. But I want her to know that I fully 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
Im therefore not persuaded that Freemans has acted unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman