DRN-1665414
 
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the administration of his motor insurance policy by Somerset Bridge 
Insurance Services Limited.
What happened
Mr M had a motor insurance policy which was administered by Somerset Bridge Insurance 
Services Limited (SBIS). During the period covering the events of this complaint, SBISwas 
also known as Eldon Insurance Services Ltd. But, for the sake of simplicity,I've just referred 
to SBISin this decision.
The policy was underwritten by a third party business and Mr M purchased it by way of a 
finance agreement provided by a further business. The current complaint is limited to the 
actions of SBISin relation to administering the policy.
The policy was due to provide cover for Mr M from October 2018 to October 2019. It 
included optional added cover for legal expenses. In December 2018, Mr M's car was 
damaged by a third party. Ultimately, Mr M's car was considered a total loss and the claim 
was settled by the third party's insurer.
On 22 March 2019, Mr M called SBISand confirmed this situation. He told SBISthat he 
wished to cancel his policy. SBISexplained that in order to cancel the policy, Mr M would 
have to send SBIS an email confirming this, which he said he would do. SBISalso informed 
Mr M of the £75 cancellation fee, which was also set out in the terms of Mr M's policy.
SBISalso said in this call that, as Mr M's claim had been settled and he no longer had a car, 
it would send him a letter saying that his policy would automatically cancel in 14 days time 
unless he switched the cover to a new vehicle.
Mr M did not send SBISan email. And his policy was cancelled on 5 April 2019 in line with 
the letter SBIShad sent. And SBISsent Mr M a further letter confirming this. This also 
confirmed that SBISwere, at that time, unable to confirm whether there was any outstanding 
balance or refund due, and that the direct debit for the next monthly premium was already in 
process. SBISsaid that once this had been completed they would advise whether there was 
any outstanding balance.
A further monthly premium was paid for the policy via the direct debit and Mr M queried why 
this had happened even though the policy had been cancelled. Hewas apparently informed 
the direct debit was already in progress by the time the policy was cancelled. And that this 
had been mentioned on the cancellation letter SBIS had sent, as above.
SBISthen wrote to Mr M informing him that there was an outstanding balance of £191.49 that 
he needed to pay. Mr M paid this balance on 10 May 2019.It then appears Mr M made two claims, via his bank, under the direct debit guarantee for 
monthly premiums paid on the policy. SBISwrote to Mr M in August 2019, informing him that 
as a result of this there was an outstanding balance of £159.06 due.
Mr M queried this and was unhappy that anything further was due. He felt the policy had 
been cancelled and that he should not have been charged any further premiums after his 
call of 22 March 2019. He asked for a breakdown of the debt.
SBISsent Mr M a breakdown of the debt on 12 September 2019. This was set out as follows:
"Time on cover - £253.41
Cancellation fee - £75
Broker fee - £85.00
Finance fee - £50.00
Interest - £99.74
ARC legal cover - £25.99 
Total charges - £589.14
Amount paid - £430.08
Taking into account the amount charged for time on cover and the amount paid, there 
is now a debt of £159.06
Please note that there was 2 indemnity claim done on the policy for the amount of 
£79.53"
Mr M remained unhappy, even thoughSBISoffered to waive half the outstanding debt. He felt 
SBISwere harassing him over the debt. He also requested a copy of the call made on 22 
March 2019, and had difficulty receiving this.
Ultimately, Mr M raised a formal complaint. SBISresponded, saying that the charges had 
been applied to his account correctlyand that waiving half of the outstanding debt was a 
reasonable goodwill gesture. SBISapologised if Mr M felt he was being harassed, but that 
the letter chasing the debt were in line with SBIS's process for collecting debts. And SBISfelt 
the customer service it had provided Mr M was appropriate.
Mr M remained unsatisfied and referred his complaint to this service. During the course of 
the complaint, SBIScontinued to chase Mr M. It also wrote to him to say that, due to a 
miscalculation, the amount he now owed was £84.06.
Our investigator initially thought SBIScould have done more. She felt that Mr M had made it 
clear on 22 March 2019 that he wanted to cancel his policy, and that SBIScould have 
accepted his verbal cancellation request. She also wasn't sure that SBIS had properly 
explained the debt Mr M had owed and that it hadn't provided any evidence relating to the 
direct debit claims. She felt SBIScould also have been clearer about this direct debit claim, 
rather than just telling Mr M he'd made an "indemnity claim". At this point our investigator 
recommended Mr M's complaint should be upheld. She said SBISshould provide a more 
detailed explanation of the debt, a refund of the premium charged for cover provided beyond 
22 March 2019, and £200 compensation.SBISdisagreed. It provided further evidence, including a copy of the breakdown sent to Mr M 
on 12 September 2019. But said it would provide Mr M with anitemised breakdown of the 
cancellation charges he paid,including time on cover, how much was charged, when cover 
ceased and why. And SBIS also said that, whilst it did not agree to either compensate Mr M 
with £200 or to refund any time on cover after 22 March 2019, it would waive the outstanding 
debt.
Mr M's complaint wasreferred to me for a decision. But after SBIShad provided some further 
evidence, our investigator wrote to Mr M explaining how the debt had been calculated, 
including the time on cover. She confirmed that this was correct. And she said that, whilst 
she still felt SBIScould have been clearer in some of its communication, she thought the 
offer to waive the outstanding debt was a reasonable resolution to the complaint. Mr M did 
not accept this though, and his complaint has been passed back to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M is unhappy that his policy was not cancelled following his call of 22 March 2019. I 
appreciate his unhappiness here to an extent. Mr M made it clear that he did not want the 
policy to continue. And, regardless of SBISsaying the standard process it has requires 
written confirmation of a policyholder's desire to cancel, it may have been possible for the 
policy to have been cancelled as a result of this call.
However, SBISdid make it clear what the required process was in this call and this was 
repeated to Mr M. He also appeared happy to proceed on this basis and the call ended with 
him saying:
"Ok, I will send the email now."
So I don't consider it unreasonable that SBISdid not cancel the policy immediately. I have 
also thought about what the impact of this was. The policy was cancelled 14 days later, 
when Mr M did not change the cover provided by the policy to a new vehicle. So whilst Mr M 
paid for a period of cover he may not have wanted, this was relatively short. And by waiving 
the debtSBIS has provided more of a refund than Mr M paid for this period of cover.
In terms of the amount Mr M owed, I can appreciate that he may have been confused by a 
direct debit being taken for the policy after it had been cancelled. But I can also understand 
that the process of collecting this had started by the time of the cancellation. And SBISdid 
explain in the letter of 5 April 2019 that this might happen.
Thecharges applied to the policy, set out above, are in line with the terms of the policy. They 
were also shown on Mr M's policy certificate. SBISare also permitted to charge a 
cancellation fee to cover the cost of administering the cancellation. £75 is a reasonably high 
charge for such administration, but it is within the range of charges other insurers charge for 
such work. And, taking into account the various arrangements relating to the set of this 
policy, I consider it fair and reasonable in this case.
This complaint is against SBIS, rather than the underwriter or the finance provider. But, 
nevertheless, I can confirm that the amount Mr M was charged for time on cover and the 
finance agreement appear to be correct. Mr M was covered for 159 days, and the cost of this 
was around £253, which is what Mr M was charged.Including the direct debit taken in April 2019, Mr M made 5 direct debit payments of £79.53, 
a total of £397.65. In addition to this, he paid£191.49 to settle the outstanding balance that 
existed in April 2019, bringing his total payments to£589.14.
Taking into account the time on cover, finance costs, and the other fees and charges listed 
above, Mr M had at this point been charged the correct amount and had paid this.
It then seems however that he made the two direct debit guarantee claims. I can appreciate 
why Mr M may have been led to reclaim the April payment - although, as above, this had 
been taken into account when SBIScalculated his outstanding balance. But it isn't clear why 
two payments were reclaimed.Regardless, this led to Mr M having an outstanding balance of 
£159.06.
I do note that this balance was technically due to the third party finance provider. However, 
one of SBISresponsibilities was to collect this payment. They are authorised by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in this regard. And they do have to send certain letters in order to do this.
I appreciate that Mr M may have found these letters to be harassing. But, having reviewed 
their content, I consider them suitable. They set out the amount owed, explained that failure 
to contact SBISmay lead to a referral to a debt collection agency, and advisedMr M to 
contact SBIS or the Citizens Advice Bureau if he was in financial difficulty. I do not consider 
the letters were harassing in nature. I also do not consider the number of letters sent to be 
inappropriate either.
I do note that, even after referral of Mr M's complaint to this service, SBISdid send further 
letters asking Mr M to settle his balance. We do usually consider it good practice for 
businesses to suspend collection activity whilst a complaint is with this service. But there is 
no requirement for a business to do this. And the actual actions SBIStook in this period were 
not inappropriate in themselves.
Since thecomplaint has been referred to this service, SBIS has agreed to waive the 
outstanding debt, so any collection activity has been terminated. I have seen no evidence 
that any of the actions SBIStook have had an impact on Mr M's credit file.
I do agree that some of SBIS'scommunications could have been clearer though. The 
breakdown of charges under the policy was not provided until September 2019, and this did 
not explain how the cost for time on cover had been calculated - nor how the direct debit 
paid in April 2019 had been taken into account. SBISalso referred to "indemnity claims" 
having been made, without really explaining what these were.
SBIS also made an error when waiving half the outstanding balance of £159.06. £75, rather 
than£79.53 was waived, leading to further confusion when Mr M was chased for£84.06.
However, given the correct costs and charges were applied to Mr M's policy, I consider the 
waiving of the full £159.06 to be a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. This 
provide Mr M with compensation for the communication issues he experienced, as well as 
the error made when SBISwaived half the debt. And it also means any period of cover 
provided after 22 March 2019 has been provided without charge.
Putting things right
Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limitedshould waive any outstanding debt owed by Mr 
M, if it has not already done so.
My final decisionMy decision is to uphold this complaint. Somerset Bridge Insurance Service Limited should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman