DRN-3236484
The complaint
Ms H complains that Santander UK Plc, (trading as Alliance and Leicester), mis-sold her a
mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Ms H took out a mortgage with Santander in 1991. At the same time she purchased a
monthly-premium MPPI which covered her for accident, sickness and involuntary
unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended that Ms Hs complaint should be upheld. She said this
because Ms H had a pre-existing medical condition, (the condition), at the time of the
sale. And our adjudicators view was that the policy wouldnt have met Ms Hs needs had
she had to claim because of the condition. And Santander ought to have pointed this out to
Ms H. As Santander disagreed with this view, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
On 24 November 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I provisionally decided, 
subject to any further comments or evidence which I received, that Santander had not mis-
sold the MPPI to Ms H. Neither Ms H nor Santander responded to my earlier decision, so I 
see no reason to vary it in any material way.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Hs case. Where
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, (as some of it is here), I make my
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have
happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ive decided that Santander didnt mis-sell the policy to Ms H. I explain why below
Ms H says that she was a single mother at the time the MPPI was sold to her. And that,
among other comments to a similar effect, Santander told her that her mortgage
application was not very hopeful and that it was more likely that it would be viewed
favourably if she took out the policy. Because the sale was face-to-face I cant be sure about
what was said. And as the meeting was some 30 years ago I dont think that I can fairly
rely just on Ms Hs memory.
Ive seen Santanders record of its interview with Ms H which shows that it recommended
the MPPI to her. Ive also seen her mortgage application which has a tick in the box
requesting the cover, which I find shows that Ms H had a choice as to whether to take it out 
or not. And, without more persuasive evidence, on balance, Im not satisfied that I can fairly
and reasonably conclude that Santander didnt make it clear to Ms H that the policy was
optional.
Ms H says that it was Santanders representative, not she herself, who ticked the box
requesting the insurance. But I find this would have been after a discussion about Ms Hs
circumstances, during which the representative recommended that she took out the MPPI.
And I also find that Ms H would have had the opportunity to read through the application
before signing it and could have queried this part of the form had it not reflected what she
had agreed.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that Ms H was eligible for the policy.
Santander advised Ms H to take the MPPI. This means it had to take reasonable steps to
ensure that it was suitable for her needs. Because the sale was so long ago, I dont know
what steps Santander actually took. But, knowing what I do about Ms Hs circumstances and
the terms and conditions of the MPPI, Im satisfied that it was suitable. I say this because:
Ms H has told us that she was entitled to sick pay from her employer and had some
savings. But, following a successful claim, the policy would have paid out about £350 a
month for up to 12 months had she been unable to work. And these payments would
have been in addition to any other payments she was due or funds she had, leaving
these latter available to help her meet her other expenses while she wasnt able to earn.
So I find that the MPPI could have been of use to her. Indeed, I see that she did in fact
make at least one successful claim;
The policy was competitively priced by reference to other similar policies available in the
market at the time. And I havent seen anything to suggest that it wasnt affordable by
Ms H. In any event, as it was paid for monthly, had Ms H later felt that she couldnt afford
it or no longer wanted it, she could have cancelled the policy at any time without further
cost;
As Ive mentioned earlier, Ms H had the condition at the time of the sale. But she has told
us that it was managed and that she never took sick leave because of it. Further, the
MPPI would only not have covered Ms H for being off work because of the condition if
she had been unable to do any work at all because of it during the first year that that
the policy was in place. And from what Ms H has told us, I dont think she would have
been put off taking out the policy had Santander explained this;
I havent seen anything to suggest that Ms H was adversely affected by any of the
policys other main restrictions or limitations  such as those affecting someone who was
self-employed.
Its possible the information Santander gave Ms H about the MPPI, including about the
restrictions on claiming for the condition, wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Ive
concluded on balance that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of
cover. And it was useful for her when something went wrong. It also looks like it was
affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put her off taking
out the cover. I say this particularly bearing in mind the serious consequences that could
have arisen had she been unable to make her mortgage repayments, which were secured
on her home.This means that Santander doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the policy to Ms H.
But Santander offered to pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Ms H before this
complaint was referred to this service because:
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI
premium) - so it should have told Ms H about that. Because Santander didnt tell Ms H,
that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission
and profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in
this case.
As Ive said, Ive considered everything Ms H has told us, including that her mother could
have helped her make her mortgage payments had she not been working. As we explain on
our website, we dont usually take this into account because circumstances change  and
such assistance isnt guaranteed. Theres nothing Ive found in Ms Hs case to make me
think its reasonable to deviate from this approach here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that the MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold so 
Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Ms H. 
But Santander does have to pay back to Ms H any commission and profit share it got that
was more than 50% of the MPPI premium. And as it has already offered to do this in a way
that I think is fair, I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman