DRN-2931933
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Bespoke Financial Guidance Limited did not provide her with the 
agreed service. She wants it to refund its fees and to compensate her for any loss in 
potential growth of her portfolio.
Bespoke Financial Guidance is an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Services Ltd 
(Quilter). This means Quilter is responsible for the service provided, and for this complaint.
What happened
Mrs K had a general investment account, a stocks and shares ISA and a personal pension 
portfolio managed by a financial adviser. That advisors business was acquired by Bespoke 
in August 2017 and it managed her portfolios until 10 April 2018, when Mrs K moved to 
another provider.
For ease, I will refer to the business as Quilter for the rest of this decision, as it is 
responsible for providing the service to Mrs K.
Mrs K says she was promised the same service that shed previously enjoyed, including two 
reviews a year and daily portfolio monitoring. She says this didnt take place and that no fund 
switches were executed.
Quilter said no immediate investment needs were identified and a review meeting would 
have taken place in March or April 2018. But Mrs K stopped using the service, so a meeting 
didnt take place. It didnt provide discretionary management services and its investment 
planning was for the medium to long term, so it wouldnt carry out short term fund switches. 
The funds were reviewed daily, as a collective along with other clients on the platform.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Quilter 
had demonstrated what it did for the fees it charged, and that those fees should be 
reimbursed. She said she couldnt speculate what might have taken place if Quilter had 
provided the active management Mrs K expected, so she didnt conclude that any additional 
compensation was payable.
Quilter didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. But it didnt 
provide any additional information or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Quilter took over the management of Mrs Ks portfolio, a joint meeting took place with 
her previous advisor and she was assured that she would continue to receive the same 
service. Further reassurance was provided in February 2018, in response to a question from 
Mrs Ks husband who was told things would be run, in exactly the same way, and that 
nothing changes in terms of fund selection, charges and processes. Quilter further 
confirmed that, I can specifically confirm that your portfolio will be checked on a daily basis 
and that the annual review would take place in March.
Mrs K told us that shed previously received two face to face review meetings a year and that 
her portfolio was monitored daily. And, in its submissions to us, Quilter told us that Mrs Ks 
previous advisor was authorised as a discretionary manager.
I find that there were differences in the service Mrs K received:
Quilter provided an advisory management service, whereas Mrs K has previously 
received a discretionary management service. I dont find the difference in service was 
highlighted to Mrs K.
Mrs K had received two face to face review meetings each year. Quilter confirmed a 
meeting would take place in March 2018. Whilst I can see there was some preparation 
for this meeting, Ive not seen evidence to show that a meeting date was arranged or 
agreed. Quilter told us the meeting would have taken place in April if Mrs K hadnt 
changed provider. But Ive not seen evidence to show that an April meeting was planned 
or agreed  theres evidence that Quilter agreed the meeting would take place in March, 
and it didnt.
Mrs K told us her portfolio was monitored daily by her previous provider. On balance, 
I think its most likely that the funds held in her portfolio  and those of other clients - 
were collectively monitored, rather than the portfolio itself. For example, if one of the 
funds was underperforming, the decision may have been taken to sell that fund for all 
clients. Quilter hasnt demonstrated to this service that these checks were taking place. 
But, even if they were, I dont think Quilter did enough to explain to Mrs K what it was 
actually checking on a daily basis. In response to her husbands question about this, 
Quilter said, I can specifically confirm that your portfolios will be checked on a daily 
basis. This suggested that Mrs Ks portfolio was accessed and checked daily. Ive not 
seen evidence that this was the case.
Quilter seems to accept that fund switches were carried out on a more regular basis by 
Mrs Ks previous advisor. Its explained that its approach to fund investment is longer 
term and that, whilst a fund switch is always a consideration, this would be less likely 
under its management. Im not making a finding on which approach was more 
appropriate for Mrs K. Rather that there was a change of approach. Which wasnt 
brought to Mrs Ks attention. Instead she was wrongly told that nothing would change.
I also find some concerns about the process for reviewing Mrs Ks portfolio. As part of its 
complaint investigation, Quilter told us that, if a meeting taken place in March or April 2018, 
there would have been a discussion to reduce the overall risk of the existingportfolio 
which we understand was relatively higher risk. This conflicts with the Financial Health 
Check & Review letter dated 7 November 2017 which confirmed the current investment was 
aligned to the agreed risk profile and objectives. If the position had changed since November 
2017, I would have expected Quilter to have brought this to Mrs Ks attention. Ive not seen 
evidence that it did. And, whilst it may have been waiting to discuss this in person at the 
review meeting, it didnt arrange for that meeting to take place.
Overall, I agree with our investigator. I dont think Quilter has done enough to demonstrate 
what service Mrs K received for the fees it charged and that the fees should be refunded. 
Mrs K said that no fund switches took place during this period and that she wants 
compensation for the growth her portfolio would have made had switches taken place. I agree with our investigators conclusions here. Its not possible to say what switches might 
have taken place had Quilter provided more active management of Mrs Ks investments and 
I cant conclude with any certainty that her investments would have grown more in value. For 
that reason, I cant conclude that Mrs K incurred a loss because of Quilters inactivity. It 
follows that I dont find any compensation is payable.
Putting things right
As set out above, Quilter should reimburse Mrs K for the fees it charged. Quilter told us that 
the fees from August 2017 to November 2017 inclusive were paid to Mrs Ks old advisor. But 
Quilter was responsible for the management of Mrs Ks portfolios during this period. For the 
avoidance of doubt, Mrs K should be reimbursed for all fees deducted from her portfolios for 
the period from and including August 2017  when Quilter took over the management of her 
investments  to and including April 2018  when Mrs K moved the management of her 
investments elsewhere.
Quilter should pay simple interest at 8% a year, from the date each fee was charged to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Quilter Financial Services Ltd should 
reimburse Mrs K for the fees it charged during its period of management of Mrs Ks 
investments, as detailed above, plus simple interest at 8% a year from the date each fee 
was charged to the date of settlement. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Quilter Financial Services Ltd to take off tax from this 
interest. Quilter Financial Services Ltd must give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman