DRN-2015119
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about the service she received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
(BG) in relation to the replacement of a water cylinder and the repair of a gas fire.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been summarized in 
the view given by our investigator, so I wont repeat them here. Instead Ill focus on giving 
my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for these reasons.
Any award of compensation that we make is a recognition that what a business has done or 
failed to do has caused more inconvenience than simply what one might reasonably expect 
when things go wrong. What the business did or failed to do has to have had a significant 
impact on a particular customer.
I consider that Mrs D has suffered considerable inconvenience and upset. The multiple 
appointments that were required to deal with both the cylinder and the fire, the 
inconvenience of an under-performing replacement cylinder, the concerns about its incorrect 
installation leading to the involvement of Gas Safe, the delays in addressing concerns about 
the qualifications of BGs engineers and their perceived lack of knowledge and skill when 
dealing with unvented cylinders leading to additional visits being required, are all factors that 
justify compensation. 
But although I consider that Mrs D has suffered considerable inconvenience and upset and 
that its appropriate that she receives compensation, I have to also take into account what 
BG has done wrong, and what its done to put things right.
It replaced Mrs Ds broken cylinder with its standard replacement, which was a different 
make. Under Mrs Ds policy BG was only required to try to provide [a replacement] with 
similar functionality but not necessarily the same features.., in this case a bubble to act 
like an accumulator. This new cylinder proved to be unsatisfactory, but BG agreed to replace 
it, notwithstanding the policy term, with one thats an upgrade to its standard replacement. 
Mrs D is now satisfied with this new cylinder.
Further, in relation to the gas fire, although Mrs D wouldve been caused considerable 
inconvenience by the six visits by BG that were required before this was satisfactorily 
repaired, it appears that a number of different parts failed in succession. I dont have any 
evidence to suggest that this was due to any act or omission on the part of BGs engineers.
Having taken into account what BG has already done to make things right, I consider that its 
offer of £350 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances so Im not going to 
require it to pay any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not going to uphold Mrs Ds complaint against British 
Gas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman