DRN-3263592
The complaint
Miss A complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of her buildings
insurance claim.
All references to Lloyds also include its agents
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them full again 
here. Below is intended to be a summary of the events that led to Miss As complaint and so 
doesnt list every point that has been made. My decision focusses on events up until Lloyds 
final response issued in February 2021, any comment on events following this date are 
purely for contextual purposes.
Miss A made a claim in January 2020 for a leak which caused damage to her 
kitchen, passage, dining room and bathroom
Initial drying work was carried out by Lloyds contractors, but it wasnt done correctly, 
so issues with damp and mould persisted
Miss A was also unhappy as she felt the replacement kitchen units Lloyds provided 
were not a reasonable match to the remaining undamaged units
Lloyds said the units are a reasonable match
Miss A was dissatisfied at the progress of her claim, and hired her own Loss Adjuster
Lloyds offered Miss A a cash settlement for the works
Lloyds later offered to carry out the work, but Miss A wanted to take the
settlement as she was no longer comfortable with its contractors completing
works as she said they had caused damage at her property
Miss A has provided Lloyds with quotes and a scope of works  but Lloyds
say this includes things not covered within the claim, so doesnt agree with
the scope or the cost
Miss A also provided two further quotes for work at the property
Miss A is also unhappy she wasnt offered alternative accommodation
Later in the claim, Lloyds offered to pay Miss A a disturbance allowance, but
Miss A was unhappy with the amount offered
Lloyds said there was evidence of poor workmanship by its contractors and
there had been issues in the service it provided to Miss A
It offered Miss A £400 compensation for the inconvenience it had caused
Lloyds said it didnt think Miss A required alternative accommodation. And
when they discussed this with her at the beginning of the claim, she was
relieved she could remain in her home
Lloyds said it would consider further disturbance costs if receipts were provided
It reiterated that it did not agree with the scope of works, or quotes, put forward by 
Miss A
Our investigator recommended we uphold Miss As complaint. She recommended Lloyds:
Increase its offer of compensation to a total of £900
Validate the quotes provided by Miss A
Pay Miss A a disturbance allowance on production of receipts
If Miss A is unable to show this, the investigator said the allowance should be paid at
a rate of £10 per day, for each adult in the family living in the property
Add 8% interest per year to disturbance allowance payment
Cover the costs of the damaged units and provide a 50% contribution towards the
undamaged units.
Lloyds didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint passed to me.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on 14 December 2021. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Settlement
Miss A has provided quotes from independent contractors, but Lloyds disagree with the
scope of work the quotes are based on. As these are not just for claim related losses, but for
renewing the kitchen in full. Having looked at the proposed scope of works, they do differ,
and I cant see anything that persuades me the kitchen should be replaced in full.
Lloyds offered to carry out the work. I can understand Miss As reasons for doing so, but
she chose to take a cash settlement. So Lloyds are entitled to settle the claim at the rate it
would cost it to carry out the work. Lloyds have provided an un-costed scope of work, so If
Miss A wishes to provide new quotes for claim related losses, she can provide them to
Lloyds for them to consider.
Miss A said Lloyds proposed settlement doesnt cover replacement appliances. If it hasnt
done so, Lloyds should consider these within the terms and conditions of the policy. And, if
applicable, either replace these one a like-for-like basis or add the costs of these into its
settlement offer
Kitchen UnitsI can understand the difficulties Lloyds has said it has had in obtaining an exact match. But
from photos I can see the new units dont match the existing ones, and I dont think it looks
to be a reasonable match to the general front facing units in the kitchen, so I can also
appreciate Miss As concern.
As a reasonable match cant be found I would expect Lloyds to contribute 50% to the cost of
replacing the undamaged units.
Damage to Kitchen Tiles and other items caused by contractors
Photos provided by Lloyds, taken before work took place, show the tiles were, in places, not
in a good condition. I can see evidence of cracking, loose tiles and missing pieces. However,
its plausible some damage could occur when removing the kitchen units, and Lloyds have
said its scope of work does allow for some retiling.
Lloyds said other items Miss A said were damaged, havent specifically been raised with it.
And I cant see anything that persuades me it has.
Lloyds will need to be given the chance to assess and consider these aspects. I expect it will
do so reasonably and if Miss A Is unhappy with its response, she may be able to bring a
separate complaint to our service.
Alternative Accommodation and Disturbance Allowance
Miss A says alternative accommodation was never offered to her. Lloyds says it did consider
alternative accommodation early in the claim but didnt feel it was required  and Miss A
indicated she was happy to remain in the property after recovering from surgery.
There is very little information available to me to show if, or what, conversation took place
about this early in the claim. But Lloyds system notes provided to its contractors show in
February 2020 it knew of Miss As difficulties. It also instructs contractors to take extra time
and care to ensure the property is left safe following its visit.
Directly under this it says, AA required = no.
Lloyds was aware Miss A was vulnerable and had caring needs, which meant it could be
unsuitable for her to remain in the property. Miss A also raised the subject of alternative
accommodation with Lloyds later in the claim  as well as the issues of not having cooking
facilities and having to do laundry externally. I can see Lloyds did make some offers for
appliances such as a replacement cooker and a heater, but this wasnt until around
November 2020.
Considering this, two other occupants being in the home and the ongoing issues with damp,
I think Lloyds should have considered alternative accommodation during the claim.
As she remained in the property, Lloyds has agreed to pay a disturbance allowance to 
Miss A, backdated to March 2020. But Miss A was unhappy with the amount Lloyds offered.
Its reasonable that costs for expenses incurred by Miss A to remain in the property should
be met, these are sometime difficult to quantify. I think a reasonable amount is £10 per day,
per person in the household. Having considered everything, I think this should be backdated
to the start of the claim and Lloyds should also add 8% interest on the amount to be paid.
Loss Assessors
Miss A said she felt she had to appoint her own loss adjuster to manage the claim and as aresult has incurred costs.
I can appreciate Miss As frustration about whats happened in the claim. But while Ive seen
the loss assessors put forward a request for a disturbance allowance, Ive not seen anything
to persuade me the loss-assessors have changed the general outcome or direction of the
claim itself.
So, I wont be asking Lloyds to cover these costs
Compensation
There is often an element of inconvenience in claims and they can take some time to
resolve. But Lloyds have accepted it could have provided better service and that there have
been delays due to the poor workmanship regarding drying in the property. Its offered Miss A
£400 compensation but I dont think this goes far enough to address the distress and
inconvenience Miss A has been caused.
Miss A is disabled, and Lloyds were aware of her caring needs  and she was having
surgery at the time of the claim. But she remained in a property without kitchen facilities
throughout the claim and was only offered a disturbance allowance later in the claim when
she had hired a loss adjuster because of her frustration matters werent progressing.
In the circumstances the compensation recommended by the investigator, £900, is within the
range of what I would consider fair and reasonable in recognising the distress and
inconvenience caused to Miss A by Lloyds. So I dont intend to alter this.
In addition, I also informed Lloyds that as it had previously agreed for further drying work to 
proceed, it would need to consider this as part of its settlement to Miss A
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds responded to say It agreed with my provisional findings.
Miss A responded to my provisional findings with further points regarding the drying, scope 
of work and settlement. Miss A mentioned a number of things she felt had not be considered 
and needed to be included in the scope of work and settlement
Further developments
I put Miss As comments regarding missing items in the scope to Lloyds. In response Lloyds 
said the scope of work already included a number of the items raised by Miss A and 
provided clarification.
It also said it has revised its scope to include 
Cleaning, anti-fungicide treatment, stripping and glossing to the back door
Replacing insulation in affected stud walls
An electrical safety check
Lloyds added it agreed separately to replace Miss As plinth heater but would also add this. 
It didnt agree however the skirting in the kitchen area required replacing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Miss A Ive considered everything both parties have provided, in both my 
provisional findings, and in reaching my final decision. However, having done so Im not 
minded to alter the decision or reasoning I set out in my provisional decision.
Lloyds said it included several of the items queried by Miss A in its uncosted scope of works. 
Having reviewed its comments against the scope of works, Im satisfied it has done so. It has 
also agreed to add a number of items to its settlement. I think this is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Regarding the table and chairs, Lloyds said while they are aware the issue has been raised, 
they would need to inspect the tables and chairs. Lloyds will need to be given the chance to 
assess and consider these aspects. I expect it will do so reasonably and if Miss A Is 
unhappy with its response, she may be able to bring a separate complaint to our service.
Lloyds said it didnt agree the skirting boards need replacing. I can also see the scope of 
work prepared by Miss As contractor only includes decoration to skirting boards and not a 
replacement. Its fair Lloyds consider this within the decoration work allowed for in the kitchen 
but based on the information available Im not persuaded these needed replacing at the time 
of Lloyds final response. 
If Miss A feels the position regarding the skirting boards has changed, she may consider 
referring this back to Lloyds to consider  and again she may consider bringing a separate 
complaint to our service if she is dissatisfied with its response.
Putting things right
To put things right, I intend to direct Lloyds to:
Pay Miss A £900 compensation
Pay Miss A a disturbance allowance of £10 per person in the household, per day 
backdated to the start of the claim
8% interest should be calculated on the unpaid disturbance allowance from the start 
of the claim, until the date it is paid to Miss A
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss As complaint.
To put things right I direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman