DRN-3420956
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc failed to prevent suspicious transactions from leaving 
his account.
What happened
Mr S was abroad and visited a bar. He made two transactions using his card and Personal 
Identification Number (PIN) and later found that they were for significantly more than he 
thought he was paying. Mr S has described being provided details by the bar that indicated 
certain currency exchange rates which he believes were used to mask the actual amount of 
the transactions which were in the local currency.
Mr S raised this with Santander who advised him that as hed authorised the payments using 
his card and PIN, he was responsible for them. Mr S thought that the two transactions were 
unusual and Santanders security system should have identified them as suspicious and 
blocked them.
Mr S complained about how Santander had dealt with his issue and Santander looked into 
the complaint and didnt change their position. Mr S then brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
Mr Ss complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who thought that the payments 
werent so unusual that they should have triggered Santanders security systems. As Mr S 
had authorised the payment himself  it was reasonable for Santander to hold him liable. Mr 
Ss complaint wasnt upheld.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators outcome and commented that:
Santander failed to safeguard the account and should have contacted Mr S about 
them.
The two payments were unusual.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Santander can hold Mr S liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Mr S has confirmed he made the two transactions himself using his card and PIN. Im 
satisfied the payments were authorised, so I dont need to further consider this aspect of the 
complaint.
Mr Ss main issue is that he believes Santander failed to protect him because the two 
payments were unusual based on a number of factors including the timing of them, location, 
and amount.
Santander are required to follow their customers instructions  which they do by agreeing 
how these instructions are made. This can be by using the genuine card and PIN as it was in 
this case. Santander are also required to protect their customers from fraud and scams, 
which they do by various means, including monitoring the transactions made from their 
customers accounts. 
Santander have said that their systems didnt recognise anything unusual in these 
transactions. Ive examined the account history for Mr S and whilst he doesnt make such 
large transactions so close together, his account does have similar amounts debiting it. I 
dont think these two payments were so unusual that Santander should have done anything 
more about them at the time.
Mr S thought other factors should have triggered Santander to recognise the suspicious 
nature of these two payments, but having considered the timing and location, I dont think 
they stand out. Mr S had made an earlier undisputed payment at another merchant in the 
same location, so further payments werent that unusual. Even though the two transactions 
took place early in the morning, the type of business where the payments were made are 
normally open then  as evidenced by Mr S being present and making purchases. 
I dont think Santander could know what Mr S was purchasing at the time and whilst I 
appreciate he thinks they should have stopped the payments  I dont think they acted 
unreasonably at the time. Mr S used his own card and PIN to make the purchases and I 
recognise he feels that he was tricked into the payments due to the misleading conversion 
rates he was shown. But, as he authorised the payments himself, I think it was reasonable 
for Santander to accept that these were legitimate instructions from him and process the 
payments on his behalf and I dont think it would be fair to ask Santander to refund these 
transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman