DRN-3832004
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by KLO Financial Services Ltd (KLO) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ds employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). Mr D joined the BSPS2 
before he got advice from KLO. 
Mr D approached KLO in July 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He was 
also concerned about the situation with his employer and the BSPS2. He says he was 
dealing with the fear of losing his job as well as the pension changes. And he had wanted to 
think about transferring away earlier but delays within the DB scheme had made this difficult.  
KLO completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ds circumstances and objectives. 
This showed that he was 56 and married with two children. One of which was financially 
dependent and would be for a few more years. He was employed with a yearly income of 
£26,000. Mr and Mrs D owned their home outright and they had no debts or liabilities.
KLO also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, which it said was moderate. 
But there are a number of references throughout the point-of-sale information that suggest 
Mr D was tending towards being reasonably cautious rather than wanting to take significant 
risks with his pension planning. 
In respect of Mr Ds pension arrangements, he had: 
Received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS in June 2018. 
This showed that he had 38 years service. He was entitled to a pension of about 
£25,600 at the date of leaving the scheme. The CETV was about £486,000 
Joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. He was contributing 
4% of his salary into this and his employer was contributing 6%. It had a current 
value of around £2,000.
A personal pension into which he was paying £200 a month. This pension was 
valued at about £100,000. 
On 20 July 2018, KLO advised Mr D to transfer his pension benefits into the self-invested 
personal pension and invest the proceeds in a range of funds that met his attitude to risk. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were, in summary to:
Have control over his pension benefits in line with recent pension freedom legislation.
Maximise the amount of tax-free cash he could take and to do this immediately to 
purchase a holiday home. 
Ensure his beneficiaries inherited as much of his pension as possible in the event of 
his premature death. 
Invest in a diverse, mixed-asset investment strategy, with regular reviews, in line with 
his attitude to risk.
Mr D accepted KLOs recommendation and transferred his DB scheme benefits into 
the self-invested personal pension 
Mr D complained in 2022 to KLO about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that he 
didnt have any experience of investments or pensions. He said the advantages of the 
transfer were given prominence over the advantages of the BSPS2. He also thought the 
advice to transfer wasnt suitable for him and may have caused him a loss. 
KLO didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It provided a detailed response which I have read in full 
but, in summary, it said that the starting point of the advice was that the transfer was 
unsuitable for Mr D. But it met his objectives for higher tax-free cash, used a generous 
CETV, it increased the benefit flexibility and provided increased death benefits. It would pay 
a comparable or higher income than the DB scheme. All of this led to KLO to think that the 
advice was suitable for Mr D. 
Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator upheld the 
complaint and recommended that KLO pay compensation. She didnt think the transfer was 
in Mr Ds best interests as he was likely to receive lower benefits because of it. The BSPS2 
was likely to have met his needs for tax-free cash or a pension and the improved death 
benefits didnt outweigh the overall reduction in benefits due to the transfer.
KLO disagreed, saying that the advice was suitable for Mr D and it reiterated that it met his 
needs at the time. It felt that the Investigator had concentrated on the financial outcome of 
the transfer and hadnt taken into account his other objectives such as leaving a legacy for 
his family. Mr D was not a low-risk investor and he had investment experience with his 
personal pension portfolio. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision. There was some further correspondence, but no new issues 
were raised. 
And moving forward the regulator has since developed, and now provides access to, a 
BSPS-specific redress calculator. Both parties to the complaint have been informed that Im 
likely to award compensation based on this.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of KLO's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, KLO should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ds 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
KLO was required to carry out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report by the 
regulator. This calculated the critical yield which was how much Mr Ds pension fund 
would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB 
scheme. Ive not seen an actual TVAS and KLO has indicated in the suitability letter 
that it may not have made a full analysis. But some of the information I would expect 
to see in the TVAS was in the suitability letter. This showed that Mr D needed a 
return of 10.1% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the 
scheme at age 65. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the 
scheme would provide at that age, the critical yield was 8.8%. 
As far as I can see KLO didnt look at these calculations at Mr Ds preferred 
retirement age, which was 62. Whilst it did do cashflow reports, I think it really should 
have produced a full critical yield analysis at age 62 as he did want to retire earlier. 
The fact that it didnt was a significant failing and led to Mr D making the decision to 
transfer on incomplete information.  The discount rate, which represents a reasonable assumption about future growth, 
was 3.5% for eight years to retirement in this case. And given this, and Mr Ds 
recorded attitude to risk, and the regulators middle projection rate of 5%, I think Mr D 
was always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a substantially lower 
value than those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 by transferring and 
investing in line with that attitude to risk. And critical yields are usually higher at 
earlier retirement ages, so I think he was even more likely to receive lower benefits 
than the BSPS2 if he retired early. 
KLO strongly feels that Mr D had a moderate attitude to risk, as recorded at the 
point of sale, rather than a lower attitude to risk as our Investigator thought was more 
reasonable. But given that the transfer proceeds needed to increase above the 
regulators highest growth rate of 8%, and by some distance, I dont think this is really 
relevant. Its clear that Mr D would likely lose out financially, as things stood at the 
time of advice, if he transferred. 
The main reason it was recorded that Mr D wanted to transfer was to access his 
pension benefits flexibly. And it is true to say that the personal arrangement did offer 
more flexibility as he could withdraw some amounts, or take an income, on a more ad 
hoc basis to match his changing needs. When he took benefits from the DB scheme 
he would need to take the tax-free cash and income at the same time. 
Mr D wanted to retire at age 62 with an income of around £20,000. He also wanted 
as much tax-free cash as he could receive to purchase a holiday home. And I note 
that Mr D did withdraw the maximum tax-free cash and has used this, as he said, for 
a holiday home and to make some house repairs and so on. Mr D has said that he 
wouldnt have taken the tax-free cash if he was advised that it was in his best 
interests to stay in the DB scheme. So, Ive looked to see if his existing provision did 
meet his needs.  
The suitability letter said that at 65, Mr D could expect to receive from the scheme 
either a yearly income of about £31,500 or a tax-free lump sum of about £136,500 
and a reduced pension of £20,487. Mr D would also receive his state pension in time 
and he had a significant amount already in two DC schemes into which he was still 
contributing. He could use these flexibly to provide tax-free cash or an income when 
he needed it. I think its reasonable to say that at 65 Mr D had access to the cash and 
income that he said he wanted
As I said above, KLO didnt look at the benefits Mr D could have received from the 
DB scheme at age 62 (or at other times). Its hard to see how it could have properly 
advised Mr D about his retirement without doing this. But even without a full analysis 
I think its likely that at 62 Mr D would also have more than his recorded tax-free cash 
income wants from his existing provision. 
The FCAs compensation calculator shows that if Mr D retired three years early then 
the pension would be reduced by about 90% to account for the earlier payment. This 
is still well in excess of £20,000. And Mr D already had a significant sum he could 
use flexibly if he wanted to. So, his need for tax-free cash from the DB scheme may 
have been limited. And consequently, the income he could receive from the DB 
scheme could have been relatively high or taken earlier than the schemes normal 
retirement date. And still provided what he wanted or needed. 
Whilst Mr Ds aim for the tax-free cash was clearly important to him. I dont think that 
KLO should have advised him to alter his retirement provisions, at a significant potential overall cost, without fully exploring any alternatives he could have used to 
meet these aims. Such as using the provision he already had. 
The pension under the BSPS2 or the PPF was guaranteed. And appears to have 
been a more appropriate way to meet Mr Ds income needs in retirement  which is 
the primary purpose of a pension.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr D needed to transfer to increase the flexibility in 
how he took his pension benefits at this time.
KLO said Mr D was interested in the improved death benefits a transfer offered to his 
family. But the priority here was to advise Mr D about what was best for his 
retirement. And the existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses 
pension, that couldve been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr D drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr D may have thought it would. 
If Mr D had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, KLO couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. And this couldve been considered on a whole of life or 
term assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But there's little evidence 
KLO did so.  
Overall, I dont think the different death benefits available through a transfer justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately KLO should not have encouraged 
Mr D to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
I think Mr Ds desire for control over how his pension was invested was overstated. 
I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his 
pension funds on his own. Even though he already had a DC fund, he didnt manage 
this himself. And the recommendation seems to have been given on the basis hed 
receive, and pay for, ongoing support with his pension. So, I dont think that this was 
a genuine objective for Mr D  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from 
his DB scheme.
Mr D may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was KLOs role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, the BSPS2 had been established 
and the prospect of his pension moving to the PPF may have seemed remote. But 
even so, the PPF would still have provided Mr D with guaranteed income and the 
option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr D was unlikely to improve on these benefits by 
transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he mightve thought, and 
I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best 
interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ds best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr D wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr D received from KLO was 
unsuitable for him.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for KLO to put Mr D, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would most likely 
have remained in the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
KLO must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
KLO should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr D and the Financial Ombudsman  
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what KLO 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, while he has accessed some tax free cash Mr D has not yet retired, and isnt 
certain when he will do. So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal 
retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, KLO should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr D accepts KLOs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr D for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, KLO may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus anyinterest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require KLO Financial Services 
Ltd to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
KLO Financial Services Ltd pays Mr D the balance.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on KLO Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman