DRN-4014312
The complaint
Mr W complaints Nationwide Building Society provided poor customer service and unfairly 
closed his current account.
To resolve the complaint Mr W says he wants Nationwide to apologise, reinstate his account 
and for the Indian manager and the black guy to be sacked.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While there are several aspects to this complaint, such as an alleged minor discrepancy in 
Mr Ws account balance and a dispute over whether the Police were called or not, our rules 
allow me to focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. I consider the crux of 
the complaint to be whether Nationwide provided poor customer service and unfairly closed 
Mr Ws account.
The account terms and conditions allow Nationwide to close an account immediately if it 
reasonably considers a members conduct towards staff constitutes abuse. Provisions such 
as this are common for current accounts, and I dont find them inherently unfair.
Nationwide says Mr W was abusive. Mr W says he wasnt. I find he was abusive, for the 
following reasons:
- Mr W has provided video footage  taken by himself  showing him being abusive to 
staff and other members  namely, another member he described to our service as 
an ugly looking ragheaded black woman. 
- Nationwide has provided staff statements describing Mr Ws abusive behaviour  him 
swearing, shouting and being aggressive. Given their detail, combined with what I 
know from Mr Ws footage, I find the statements credible. Its clear from these 
statements how upsetting and worrying the staff found Mr Ws behaviour.  
- Nationwide has provided screenshots of online reviews where Mr W said the staff 
are so f***ing stupid its untrue, referred someone as a tramp of a woman who 
had a dirty look and nasty hair and said of another the ignorance from the 
Indian. While these are parts out of what are quite lengthy diatribes, they are 
offensive comments in themselves, and a more holistic viewpoint doesnt change 
matters.  
- Mr Ws dealings with our service has given me further insight into his behaviour in 
general. He regularly makes unkind remarks about peoples intelligence and integrity, 
and the tone of his correspondence is accusatory and hostile. 
As I find Mr W was abusive towards Nationwide staff (and members), it follows I find it was 
fair and reasonable for Nationwide to decide to close his account and thereby end their 
banking relationship. And I note while it could have done so immediately, Nationwide gave 
Mr W two weeks notice to allow him to make alternative banking arrangements. I consider 
this a positive action on the part of Nationwide. 
Mr W thinks Nationwide staff discriminated against him. He further says they lack 
intelligence and competence. From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded there is any merit to 
these allegations. On the contrary, I consider the video footage provided by Mr W shows 
Nationwide staff being professional and courteous, and getting on with their jobs, despite the 
challenging situation Mr W created and then maintained for some considerable time.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint because it has no merit.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman