DRN-4016372
The complaint
F complains about delays when making an international payment via HiFX Europe Limited.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
On 12 May 2022 Fs director, Mr G, instructed an international transfer. HiFX transferred the 
funds the following day via its bank. On 17 May 2022 HiFX emailed Mr G and confirmed the 
funds would be paid within four working days.
The funds werent received by the beneficiary in line with the timescales given by HiFX. Mr G 
contacted HiFX to raise concerns about the delay receiving funds. In the days that followed, 
HiFX attempted to trace the transfer via its bank. Mr G also raised a complaint with HiFX on 
Fs behalf.
On 1 June 2022 HiFXs bank advised the transfer had been held for further checks by an 
intermediary bank with the message not a valid transaction being provided. HiFXs bank 
responded to ask for a clearer understanding of why the payment had been held and was 
considered invalid. HiFXs bank was later advised the intermediary bank wanted to check the 
name of the recipient bank account and purpose of the transaction as it had been instructed 
on a personal basis but came from a business account.
HiFX contacted Mr G and asked the questions raised by the intermediary bank. Mr G 
responded on 6 June 2022 with the information required. The information was relayed to the 
intermediary bank and funds were received into the recipient bank account on 15 June 2022.
HiFX sent F a final response and said the payment had been delayed after information was 
legitimately queried by the intermediary banks involved in processing it. HiFX said the delays 
F experienced were outside of its control.
An investigator at this service looked at Fs complaint and upheld it in part. They didnt think 
HiFX was responsible for the delays caused when further questions were asked by the 
banks. But the investigator thought there was a delay of around 10 working days during 
which HiFX couldve checked information with F. The investigator asked HiFX to pay F £150 
for the inconvenience caused and 8% interest on the transferred funds for 10 days.
HiFX didnt agree and said the additional enquiries had been raised by the intermediary 
banks. HiFX pointed out the first time it was made aware of the specific questions was 6 
June 2022, the date it contacted Mr G on Fs behalf. HiFX also said its account terms and 
conditions say its not liable for losses incurred as a result of delays by intermediary banks.
HiFX didnt agree to settle in line with the investigators recommendations. On Fs behalf, Mr 
G asked to appeal and said hed expected the payment to go through within 24 hours of 
being instructed. Mr G also said he wasnt persuaded the payment was processed without 
unnecessary delays by HiFX.
As neither party accepted the investigators view, Fs case has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about the overall timeline in this case. I can see Fs director, Mr G, was expecting the 
payment to be made within a day of the instruction being made to HiFX. In turn, HiFX says it 
aims to complete payments within four working days when sending funds to the country 
where the beneficiary account was registered. And HiFX says the payment was held due to 
additional checks completed by the intermediary banks that were outside of its control.
HiFXs website contains information about timescales for making international payments. 
The website says payments to accounts in the country where the beneficiary account is 
registered will take four working days. I understand Mr G believed the payment would take 
around 24 hours from instruction to complete. But the information available indicates HiFX 
has publicly available details of its normal timescales for making payments and they give a 
period of four working days. But here, the normal timescales fell away when Fs payment 
was held for additional checks before being approved.
In its submissions to us, HiFX has pointed out that when Fs representative accepted its 
terms and conditions they included the following information:
We will have no liability in respect of, any delay or withholding of payment by a bank or 
intermediary bank(s) or payment service provider(s). Delays in onward payment may be 
attributable to factors outside of our control, including (without limitation) bank(s) errors, 
omissions or delays or their failure to conduct the payment.
A bank of payment service provider may also be required to (among other things) delay or 
withhold payment if it is not satisfied with information about you, as our client, the purpose 
and nature of the payment or recipient for the purposes of complying with AML and CTF 
Laws and/or other laws.
HiFX has pointed out that in Fs case, the payment wasnt delayed because of its actions. 
HiFX says the intermediary banks involved in processing the payment held it for further 
checks to be made. And HiFX notes its terms advise it wont be liable for losses in respect of 
delays caused by a bank or intermediary bank when making the onward payment. 
Ive considered whether its fair for HiFX to rely on this section of its terms in the 
circumstances of Fs case. First Ive considered whether there was a legitimate reason for 
the queries. HiFX has provided systems messages and information that shows the payment 
was held because the beneficiary account name appeared to match Mr Gs but included 
additional letters at the end. The other point that was queried was why the payment had 
been instructed on a personal basis despite being made form a business account. Whilst I 
understand there were genuine reasons for both points, I havent been persuaded it was 
unreasonable for the payment to be held whilst additional enquiries were made. Businesses 
are obliged to ask questions to confirm a payment instruction is valid. And Im satisfied the 
intermediary banks involved had legitimate queries about the beneficiary account name and 
transaction.I agree there appear to have been delays when trying to find out what had happened to Fs 
funds. As Ive noted above, HiFXs account terms say its not liable for losses caused by 
delays from the banks involved. Here, HiFX has confirmed that following contact from Mr G it 
completed a trace exercise via its bank. And it took until 1 June 2022 for HiFXs bank to be 
notified the transaction had been held on the basis it wasnt a valid transaction. But that 
response didnt specify why the payment wasnt considered as valid. So HiFXs bank had to 
revert to the intermediaries for further guidance concerning what information was required to
proceed.
I can see that once this point was clarified, HiFX quickly asked Mr G to submit a response on 
Fs behalf. And Mr Gs response was received by HiFX on 6 June 2022 and communicated 
to its bank without a delay. I appreciate there were other delays that impacted the time it 
took for the payment to be made, but Im satisfied they were outside of HiFXs control, as it 
claims. And, in my view, its reasonable for HiFX to rely on its account terms and conditions 
that say its not liable for losses caused by delays with banks and intermediary banks acting 
to complete the transfer.
Whilst I understand my decision is likely to disappoint Fs director, Mr G, I havent been 
persuaded that HiFX dealt with the complaint unfairly. I accept there were delays processing 
the transfer, but Im satisfied they were outside of HiFXs control. In line with the account 
terms and conditions, HiFX isnt liable for losses as set out above. So whilst I agree there 
were delays, I havent found grounds to uphold Fs complaint or tell HiFX to compensate it 
for losses that mayve been incurred.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. 
On Fs behalf, Mr G responded and said he still believes there were unreasonable and 
unnecessary delays in getting the funds to the receiving bank. Mr G also said he failed to 
understand how the similarities between the name on the destination account and his own 
name caused a delay. Mr G added that hed provided evidence that the delays led to a loss 
for the recipient and that F had provided compensation. Mr G added that he feels HiFX 
should pay on the funds whilst they were held for further checks. 
HiFX responded to confirm it accepts the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr G for responding to the provisional decision I issued. Mr Gs asked why 
the name of the destination account was checked. HiFX has provided evidence to show the 
initials used at the end the account name were queried by the intermediary bank. But the 
queries raised by the intermediary bank were about the initials used and fact that a the 
transfer had been instructed on a personal basis despite coming from a business account. I 
understand Mr Gs concerns, but Im satisfied there were legitimate reasons to query the 
name of the account and type of transfer being instructed. For the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision, I havent been persuaded the additional enquiries were unreasonable in 
nature. 
Mr Gs reconfirmed that the delay led to a loss. Mr Gs already sent us evidence of the loss 
he says F incurred. Ive reviewed the information Mr Gs sent on Fs behalf when responding 
to the provisional decision as well. But as I set out in the provisional decision, the terms and 
conditions Mr G accepted on Fs behalf when he signed up to HiFXs service explained its not liable for losses caused by intermediary bank delays. And Im satisfied theres no 
evidence of unreasonable delays by HiFX in this case. As I said in my provisional decision, 
Im satisfied its fair for HiFX to rely on the terms and conditions in this case and that it isnt 
liable for the losses F seeks to recover. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr G but I havent been persuaded to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. I still think HiFX dealt with Fs complaint fairly, for the 
same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman