The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the car he purchased through a hire purchase agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as MotoNovo Finance Limited MotoNovo). He said the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the car and be refunded the £400 he spent 
on repairs.
What happened
Mr M entered into a HPA in August 2019 to acquire a used car. On 1 October 2019, he 
reported the diesel particulate filter (DPF) light had come on. He didnt want to drive the car 
to the dealer due to concerns about further damage and said he was told to take the car to a 
local registered engineer for repairs. He did this and had the DPF chemically cleaned costing 
£400. 
In contrast, the dealer has said that it didnt authorise repairs by a third party and instead told 
Mr M about the need for DPFs to regenerate and suggested he drive the car in a certain way 
to clear it. It provided evidence that it made an appointment for Mr M to return the car on 8 
October but he didnt attend this. 
Mr M experienced further issues with the car and had a diagnostics report carried out in 
October 2019 which identified issues including a fault code linked to the DPF. 
MotoNovo then had an independent inspection carried out. This said that it thought the 
issues wouldnt have been present at the point of supply and instead were the result of an 
unsuccessful repair or aborted regenerations. Because of the results of the 
inspection MotoNovo didnt uphold Mr M's complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr M had been told to take the car to a third party in 
October 2019. Therefore she didnt think MotoNovo was responsible for the cost of the 
repairs or for the subsequent issues. She did think it reasonable that MotoNovo pay Mr M 
£100 to reflect the need for the DPF to be regenerated shortly after acquisition. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He said when he raised the initial issue with the 
dealer it said he should return the car to it but that this was a four-hour drive and the dealer 
said it wouldnt cover any costs if anything happened to the car. Given this he took it to a 
local dealer for investigation and repair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
DRN-1604149 
Under the regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), 
MotoNovo can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such ash the age and mileage 
of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into account all the 
circumstances. In this case the car was over four years old and had been driven 
around 28,700 miles at the point of acquisition.
 
Given the age and mileage of the car, it is reasonable to accept that it would have 
some wear and tear. The DPF is a serviceable item and as the light wasnt on at the 
point of supply. However Mr M reported the light coming on just over a month after 
acquisition which could suggest that the issue may have been developing at the point 
of supply.
 
Mr M contacted the dealer on 1 October 2019, and I find it more likely than not that 
he was told to take the car for a drive at a certain speed for a period of time to see if 
this resolved the DPF issue. He was reluctant to do this and so an appointment was 
made for him to return the car to the dealer. I find this was a reasonable response by 
the dealer to try to remedy the issue.
 
While I understand Mr Ms concerns about the length of the drive to the dealer and 
the risk of further issues, it was his choice not to attend the appointment and instead 
have the DPF chemically cleaned. Therefore I do not require this cost to be covered.
 
However, as there was an issue with the DPF on Mr M's car shortly after acquisition 
which, had he attended the appointment on 8 October 2019, would likely have 
needed to be addressed, I think it fair that a payment is made to reflect this. Based 
on discussions regarding the issues, our investigator recommended a refund to Mr M  
of £100. I find this reasonable.
 
Mr M experienced issues following the repair and had further diagnostics carried out. 
These reported a DPF fault code. Given the issues raised, and the timing of these, I 
find it reasonable that MotoNovo arranged for an independent inspection to take 
place. At the time of the inspection, Mr M had driven just over 4,800 miles in the car. 
The inspection report noted the issues with the car but didnt think the issues were 
present at the point of supply. It said the issues were more likely due to a failed repair 
or failed regenerations.
 
Given the information in the inspection report, suggesting that the issues werent 
present at the point of supply - and accepting that the repairs undertaken by Mr M in 
October werent authorised - I do not find that I have enough to say that MotoNovo is 
responsible for these ongoing issues.
 
Given the above, I find that our investigators recommendation for Mr M to be refunded £100 
is reasonable. 
Putting things right
I find it reasonable that Mr M is paid £100 to reflect the initial issues he experienced with the 
car's DPF.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint about FirstRand Bank Limited.  
FirstRand Bank Limited should pay Mr M £100 as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman