DRN-1490282
Complaint 
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC ('Lloyds') mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 1997. 
Background
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Through his representatives, Mr 
W disagreed with that view. He said that no policy documents were given to him and so he 
wasnt made aware of the terms and conditions of the PPI. He was led to believe he had to 
buy the policy. If hed run into financial difficulties, Mr W said he could have relied on his 
existing resources to make payments. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, but I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Mr W said hed bought the PPI policy after filling in a leaflet by post. However, Lloyds treated 
the matter as though the cover had been sold in branch. It said that this was favourable to 
Mr W because it meant it had to satisfy a higher test. Ive considered both possibilities in this 
decision. 
In considering whether PPI was mis-sold, the first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr W 
would have known the cover was optional and he didnt have to buy it if he didnt want it. 
Looking at the application form that was completed, I can see there was a section that said: 
      'Payment protection plan
      For more information, please refer to the Lloyds Bank Mastercard Brochures. 
      If required, tick here.'
The box had been ticked to indicate Mr W wanted a PPI policy. 
If the policy was sold by post, then I think Mr W would have been able to complete this 
application form in his own time and at his own pace. The wording on that form is sufficiently 
clear to indicate that Mr W didnt have to buy PPI. If the cover was sold during a branch 
meeting, I think its most likely that Mr Ws discussions with the Lloyds staff member most 
probably reflected what was written in the paperwork. So on balance, I think Mr W would 
have known the cover was optional. 
If the cover was sold by post, then I think its unlikely Lloyds would have advised Mr W to buy 
PPI  thats because the cover would not have been tailored to his personal circumstances. 
However, if the cover was sold during a meeting, it is more likely to have been advised. For the avoidance of doubt, I have treated the sale as advised. Thats a higher test for Lloyds to 
satisfy because it had to make sure the cover was suitable for Mr Ws needs. To help me 
decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions 
of the PPI cover. And Ive looked at what Mr W told us about his personal circumstances at 
that time. 
I can see that if he had to make a claim on the policy, 10% of Mr Ws credit card balance 
would have been repaid each month he was out of work up to a  maximum of 12 months for 
each claim. I can see from the information Mr W provided that he would have received three 
months full pay and three months half pay if he was off sick. So the policy would have paid 
out in addition to and for longer than his full sick pay would have lasted. 
As I said above, Mr W told us that he would have been able to rely on friends and family if 
hed run into financial difficulty. And I dont doubt that it would have been the intention of 
those close to him to assist in those circumstances. But there is no guarantee that help 
would have been available to Mr W as and when he needed it. 
Mr W appears to have been in good health when he applied for his credit card, so I dont 
think any of the exclusions around medical conditions would have affected him. And I 
havent seen anything unusual about his circumstances that would have stopped him from 
being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. 
Overall, I think the cover probably was a suitable recommendation. 
Irrespective of how the cover was sold, Lloyds still had to give Mr W enough information 
about the cover so he could decide for himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. I think 
its possible that the information Lloyds gave to Mr W could have been better. For example, I 
cant see the cost of the policy set out clearly on the application form nor that hed have to 
pay interest on the cost of his premiums if he didnt repay his balance in full. If this wasnt 
clear on the application form, its unlikely to have been made clear during a meeting. 
But having said that, Ive set out above how I think the PPI policy could have been helpful to 
Mr W if was out of work. And it looks as though he chose to buy the insurance  so it looks 
like he wanted that type of cover at the time. I havent seen anything to suggest the 
premiums were unaffordable. With that in mind, I dont think Mr W would have acted 
differently even if Lloyds had given him more or better information about the policy. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr W, but after taking all of the above matters into account, it follows 
that I havent upheld his complaint. I dont require Lloyds to take any further action in respect 
of it. 
My final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
 
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman