DRN-1978685
The complaint
Mr G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) refused to accept 
his application for a fee free credit card.
What happened
Mr G works for a bank in Malta where an arrangement existed between his bank and AMEX 
to provide certain officials of the bank with fee free credit cards. Mr G through a colleague 
with the bank approached AMEX for such a card but as no application forms were received 
from AMEX, Mr G applied for a credit card using a standard application form. Mr Gs 
application was rejected as it had both passed the date for fee free credit card applications 
and he had used the incorrect type of application form for a fee free credit card. 
Mr G was unhappy with this and says he didnt receive notification of the rejected credit card 
application until several weeks after his application and AMEX were using the fact he had 
used an  incorrect form as an excuse not to provide the fee free card. 
Amex says they received Mr Gs application for the credit card on the cut-off date, but the 
wrong type of application form was used. AMEX says they requested internally for the free 
fee credit card to be considered as an exception, but this was declined. AMEX says that they 
did advise Mr G of the position of his application and also informed his colleague of their 
decision a few days after the card application was rejected. AMEX says that Mr Gs role 
within the bank wouldnt have been eligible for a fee free credit card in any event. AMEX say 
they have the right to refuse applications for fee free cards and have done nothing wrong 
here. 
Mr G was unhappy with AMEX response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
The investigator felt that AMEX had dealt with the application in line with their procedures 
and decided that they didnt want to provide the fee free credit card in this case, and it was a 
business decision they were entitled to make. 
Mr G was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can see that it would be disappointing for Mr G to have his application for a fee free credit 
card declined by AMEX when other colleagues at the bank where he works have enjoyed 
this arrangement.
Mr G says that AMEX have used the incorrect application form as a reason to decline his 
request for a fee free credit card and they didnt provide him with the credit card application 
despite previous requests. This delayed the time he had to apply for the credit card, resulting 
in him having to use a standard application form rather than the specific application form for 
fee free cards.
I have looked at these points and I have considered whether AMEX had acted correctly 
when they declined Mr Gs application for a fee free credit card. From the information I have 
seen there is no supporting evidence provided by Mr G to show he had requested the 
application forms on several occasions before he applied for the credit card at the end of 
March 2019. What happened here is Mr G used a work colleague from his banks card 
section to contact AMEX for details of the scheme. 
An application was sent to AMEX and received by them toward the end of March 2019. Mr G 
was also copied into emails which makes clear that his application was not able to be 
processed because it was on the wrong application form, which also unfortunately coincided 
with the cut-off date when AMEX stopped providing fee free cards to various banks in the 
EU.
What is important here is that AMEX, like any other bank, can decide whether an application 
meets their criteria and given they had decided to stop issuing these types of cards to Mr Gs 
bank in Malta, it is a decision they have taken and its not for me to tell them otherwise.  I 
can see that AMEX did approach its internal team to see if this application could be accepted 
as an exception, but this was rejected, so they did try to help Mr G here. 
It is unfortunate that Mr Gs application fell at the same time as AMEXs decision not to 
accept applications from EU bank branches. That said from the notes I have read AMEX 
also explained to Mr G s colleague that in view of Mr Gs role within his bank he wouldnt 
have been eligible in any event. 
I understand that Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, but it follows that I wont be 
asking anymore of AMEX here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman