DRN-3407728
The complaint
Miss B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) unfairly terminated her hire purchase agreement and told her it would 
repossess the car she acquired under the agreement.
What happened
Miss B acquired a car under hire purchase agreement with VWFS in October 2019. The car 
cost around £29,000. Under the agreement, Miss B was required to make 48 payments of 
£380.33, followed by a final payment of £15,413.75 if she wanted to keep the car. 
Miss Bs payment due in November 2019 was returned unpaid. So VWFS sent her an 
arrears letter. The account was brought back up to date shortly after, but in August 2020, a 
further payment was returned unpaid. Miss B called VWFS in September 2020 to query 
when a payment would be re-attempted. VWFS told her it would be re-attempted in 10 days. 
But no further payments were received by VWFS and so it sent Miss B a default notice in 
November 2020. In January 2021, the hire purchase agreement was terminated. 
A couple of days after the termination, Miss B contacted VWFS and complained. She said 
she had been unwell and so VWFS shouldnt have terminated her agreement. She also said 
she lost her job as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, which is why the arrears built up.
VWFS issued its response to Miss Bs complaint in March 2021. It said it had terminated the 
agreement correctly as five monthly payments had been missed between October 2020 and 
January 2021. It said it didnt hear from Miss B despite sending her arrears notices and a 
default notice. And so, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with this, Miss B referred her complaint to this service. She reiterated her complaint 
and said when she called VWFS in autumn 2020, it refused to help her when she made it 
aware of her personal and financial circumstances.
Our investigator looked into the complaint in March 2020. He said he thought VWFS had 
correctly repossessed the car due to the level of arrears owed under the agreement. And he 
said there was no supporting information to suggest Miss B told VWFS about the change to 
her financial circumstances or that she was unwell. So he didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint.
As Miss B remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
What I need to decide in this case is whether it was fair for VWFS to terminate the hire 
purchase agreement and initiate repossession proceedings. If I think it acted unfairly, Ill 
need to think about what, if anything, it needs to do to put things right. 
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. In this case, Miss B says she told VWFS in autumn 2020 about the change to 
her personal and financial circumstances. Ive looked at the notes on the account and I can 
see Miss B called VWFS in July 2020 and September 2020. Ive listened to both these calls. 
Having done so, when Miss B called VWFS in July 2020, she enquired about a payment 
deferral, as she said she had been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. During the call, 
Miss B mentioned her understanding of the payment deferral was that it would be a break 
and she could catch up after it restarted. But VWFS confirmed shed need to make up the 
payments that were missed, as a result of a payment deferral. Miss B also asked VWFS how 
she could hand back the car and acquire a larger car as she was having another baby. She 
said she would speak to her partner and discuss how to proceed. 
During the call, VWFS asked Miss B to complete an application form online if she wanted a 
payment deferral and call it within five days to check it had received the payment deferral 
form. But it doesnt appear Miss B filled out the form and nor did she make any further calls 
to VWFS in July or August 2020. 
Following this, Miss B called VWFS in September 2020. During this call, Miss B told VWFS 
she needed to change her payment date, due to a change in when payments were made to 
her by her employer. But she didnt mention she was unwell or that she had lost her job. 
As a result of this, whilst Miss B did mention the impact of Covid-19 to her financial 
circumstances, VWFS was clear in explaining what she would need to do to request a 
payment deferral. I dont think it needed to do anything further here. And if Miss B was still 
financially suffering from the impact of Covid-19, I would have reasonably expected her to 
mention this when she called VWFS in September 2020. But she didnt mention this. 
In addition, I can also see that VWFS sent Miss B arrears letters each month and asked her 
to contact it if there had been a change in her circumstances. Because it didnt hear from 
Miss B, it told Miss B the agreement had been terminated and it would be repossessing the 
car. I think it was fair for it to do this, given that Miss B hadnt made any payments between 
August 2020 and January 2021 and this is one of the reasons why it can repossess a car 
under the hire purchase agreement terms and conditions Miss B agreed to. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear about Miss Bs personal and financial circumstances, I dont 
think VWFS acted unfairly when it terminated her agreement and told Miss B it would be 
repossessing the car. 
Having said this, if there is an outstanding balance that Miss B owes, I must remind VWFS of 
its obligation to treat Miss B with forbearance and due consideration if she is suffering from 
financial difficulties. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman