DRN-3111803
The complaint
Mr R complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a cancellation
claim he made on an annual travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R had an annual Ski Club platinum travel insurance policy, which was underwritten by
URV. He was due to travel to a country Ill call F between 12 and 19 April 2020, for a skiing
holiday.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. So Mr R
cancelled his holiday and made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the costs
associated with cancelling the trip.
URV turned down Mr Rs claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy didnt cover the
circumstances of it.
Mr R was unhappy with URVs decision. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. He accepted that the
cancellation section of the policy didnt cover changes to FCO advice. But he noted that the
policy specifically excluded claims if a policyholder had travelled against FCO advice. He felt
this left Mr R in an unfair position where he wasnt covered if he cancelled due to the FCO
advising against travel and he wouldnt be covered if he travelled. The investigator didnt
think this was reasonable and so he recommended that URV should consider Mr Rs claim.
I issued my provisional decision on 7 September 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I thought it was fair for URV to turn down Mr Rs claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr Rs policy and the circumstances of his claim to decide whether URV treated him
fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy, as these form the basis of his
contract with URV. Page 13 of the policy sets out the pre-paid, irrecoverable cancellation
costs URV will pay for, if a policyholder is unable to travel because:
they or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
a close relative or a close business associate in (their) home country is ill, injured or
dies before the trip starts. 
the person (they) are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
they are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law.
they or a travel companion have been made redundant.
of the requirements of HM forces.
Its clear that Mr R wasnt able to travel for reasons outside of his control. But his trip wasnt
cancelled as the result of any of the insured events which Ive set out above. Theres no
section of the contract which covers the situation Mr R found himself in. So I dont think his
claim is covered by the terms and conditions of the policy.
Our investigator thought it would be fair and reasonable for URV to step away from a strict
interpretation of the policy terms and consider the claim. Thats because he thought it
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Mr R to be left without any cover for cancelling his trip due
to the change in FCO advice, but also where he wouldnt have been covered if hed travelled
as planned.
There are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation wasnt
clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think its fair and
reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions.
However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill explain why.
Ive considered the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) provided by URV, as
well as the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy. Ive also had regard to the industry rules
and guidance which Ive mentioned above, as well as the relevant law (including the unfair
terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015).
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the
policy in a way thats easy to understand. Cancellation claims due to the FCO advising
against all travel or all but essential travel arent included in the What is not insured section
of the IPID. But the IPID relating to this policy includes a section called Are there any
restrictions on cover? on page 1. This section states:
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your
destination.
It seems to me then that the IPID suggests that in certain circumstances, there may be some
cover for travelling against FCO advice if this is agreed with URV. 
But Ive also looked carefully at the specific terms and conditions of the contract itself. Page
3 of the policy provides a Summary of Cover. This sets out the main cancellation cover
provided by the policy. The summary also sets out that this cover will only apply if:
cancellation is not because of the failure of your travel agent, tour operator or due to the
advice of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
Page 12 of the policy terms set out general exclusions which apply to the whole policy. One
of these says:
You are not covered under any section, unless specified, for any of the following
circumstances:
You travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise against all
but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time of your departure.
And the cancellation section of Mr Rs policy, which Ive already referred to above, also sets
out a specific exclusion on cancellation cover. This says:
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section due to: the advice or
recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office applicable at the time of your
departure.So the cancellation section of Mr Rs policy highlights a specific exclusion for claims which
result from FCO advice.
Although Mr R may have been in the position of having no cover under this policy if hed
travelled on 12 April 2020 and also having no cover if he cancelled, I think these
exclusions are clearly and transparently set out in the terms and conditions of his policy. It
was up to Mr R to ensure he had the level of cover he required to meet his needs and if he
wanted cover for cancellation due to changes in FCO advice, its likely he couldve found
another policy on the market which wouldve covered the situation he found himself in.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, and I sympathise with his position, given hes now out of
pocket, but I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask URV
to accept his claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
URV accepted my provisional decision.
Mr R didnt agree that hed have been able to find an insurance policy which wouldve 
covered changes to FCO advice after the FCO guidance changed on 17 March 2020. He 
said hed booked his trip well in advance of 17 March 2020 and that he couldnt have 
foreseen the pandemic. He also stated that the policy website said that it was designed to 
cover the unforeseen. However, he said that as it was clear that URV wouldnt change its 
position, hed reluctantly accepted my provisional findings and didnt intend to take the 
matter any further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, I still think it was fair for URV to turn 
down his claim.
Its clear that Mr R did book his holiday many months before the circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19 unfolded. And its also clear that Covid-19 presented unforeseen and 
unprecedented challenges to both policyholder and travellers. I appreciate that Mr R couldnt 
have foreseen the pandemic, or that hed need to cancel the trip, at the time he booked the 
holiday.
However, as Ive set out above, the circumstances of Mr Rs claim werent covered by the 
cancellation section of the policy. And I think URV clearly set out in the contract terms that it 
didnt cover cancellation claims arising from FCO advice. As such, despite my sympathy with 
Mr Rs position, I find that it was fair and reasonable for URV to turn down his claim.
Id also add that in my experience, at the time Mr R took out his policy with URV, there were 
travel insurance policies available on the market which did cover cancellation due to 
changes in FCO advice. So I remain satisfied that if Mr R didnt think the policy met his 
needs, it had been open to him to find a policy which did meet his requirements.
Overall, I find that URV treated Mr R fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman