DRN-3426599
The complaint
Mr A complains Santander UK Plc didnt directly pay him a cashback bonus on completion of 
his mortgage.
What happened
Mr A applied for a mortgage with Santander around June 2021. The product Mr A applied for 
had a cashback bonus of £1,000 payable on completion of the mortgage. 
Santander sent the £1,000 cashback to Mr As solicitors on completion of the mortgage. 
Mr A has said he hasnt received the cashback from his solicitors.
Mr A complained to Santander and it upheld his complaint in part. It said it transferred the 
cashback bonus to Mr As solicitor as part of the mortgage completion, which was in line with 
its policy. But it said the terminology in its documents could be clearer, and that Mr A had 
been put to inconvenience as hed had to contact his solicitors to follow this up. So, it made 
an award of £50 to reflect this. Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr A brought his 
complaint to our service for consideration.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. She acknowledged the wording 
within the documentation provided by Santander could be clearer; and felt £50 fairly 
reflected this. She said she considered it was normal practice for Santander to send all 
payments relating to Mr As mortgage to his solicitor, as it was acting on his behalf in this 
process. As such she concluded Santander didnt need to take any further action. 
Santander accepted our investigators findings; Mr A didnt. In summary, he maintained his 
argument that the details of the cashback bonus stated the funds would be paid to him. Mr A 
says Santander hasnt acted in line with the conditions of the cashback bonus and he has 
lost out as a result. 
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive reviewed both the mortgage illustration produced on 29 June 2021 and the mortgage 
offer produced on 19 July 2021. Both documents state under the section headed 2. Main 
features of the loan:
Your mortgage benefits from a cashback and we will give you £1,000.00 after your 
mortgage completes.
Mr A has put much weight on the terminology used; and his interpretation is that the 
cashback would be paid directly to him rather than to his solicitor. 
In its responses to Mr A Santander acknowledged its wording could be clearer, saying the 
terminology could be misunderstood. It said within its responses that its policy is to send all 
payments relating to the mortgage to the appointed solicitor acting on behalf of the 
customer. It has indicated that includes the cashback bonus. 
Santander hasnt provided our service with the policy it refers to here. Instead it has told our 
service that it follows this approach as common practice.  
Ive considered what Santander has said and although it hasnt been able to provide a policy 
confirming this approach, I consider it reasonable for Santander to follow this approach and 
to have paid the cashback bonus to Mr As solicitors on completion of the mortgage. 
I say this because while I do agree the terminology within the documents could be clearer, 
Mr A had instructed the solicitor to deal with the conveyancing process of his mortgage, 
including the financial aspects. They were the appointed experts Mr A had instructed 
Santander to deal with and were acting on his behalf in this process; so, I think it was 
therefore reasonable for Santander to communicate directly with the solicitor in all aspects of 
the mortgage, including sending the cashback bonus to Mr As solicitor on completion of the 
mortgage. 
Santander has said it has paid Mr A £50 for the terminology within the documents; and the 
inconvenience he has been put to as hes needed to make enquiries with his solicitor about 
the cashback bonus. I consider this is fair in the circumstances. I say this because although 
the wording could be clearer, and Mr A has said he was left waiting for weeks expecting to 
hear from Santander about the cashback bonus, as Ive found above, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Santander to have sent the cashback bonus to Mr As solicitor. 
Its unfortunate there appears to be an ongoing dispute between Mr A and his solicitor, which 
is why I understand the cashback bonus hasnt been passed to Mr A. But this is a dispute he 
will need to pursue directly with his solicitor. 
As Ive found it was reasonable for Santander to have sent the money to Mr As solicitors, 
and the £50 award its already paid for unclear information and inconvenience caused to be 
fair; I dont consider Santander needs to take any further action in resolution of Mr As 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint about 
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman