DRN-4495453
The complaint
Mr N has complained Wise Payments Limited, trading as Wise, wont refund money he sent 
after being the victim of a scam.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr N received a call from someone saying he was to be prosecuted for tax 
issues. They conned him into believing he had to send them money immediately. Over a 
two-hour period Mr N was persuaded to send £14,935 from his account with Wise by 
transferring money into that account from his account with another institution (who Ill call N). 
Mr N made four transfers totalling £14,935 to named individuals, not HMRC. During the 
process of making these payments, Wise notified the first two payments failed the 
confirmation of payee check, but Mr N was talked through why this was, and the payments 
were made.
Mr N realised what was going on and tried to get his money back. N refunded him for a 
transaction hed made from his account direct to the fraudsters, but otherwise he had to go 
to Wise for the payments made from that account.
Wise wouldnt repay him as they felt theyd done nothing wrong.
Mr N brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator felt Wise should 
have noticed something was up and intervened. He asked Wise to repay the third and fourth 
payment, along with 8% simple interest.
Mr N accepted this outcome. Wise didnt.
Wise has asked an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
Theres no dispute Mr N was scammed and has lost a considerable amount of money. He 
has my sympathy about what he has gone through. He was rung in the morning and 
effectively badgered to pay money for tax that he supposedly owed. He was persuaded this 
was genuine as there was more than one call and at least one appeared to come from the 
genuine Court of Appeal telephone number. This made him feel incredibly helpless and 
desperate to do what he was asked. He didnt take any notice of the warnings he was being 
presented with by Wise, because of the way the fraudsters had made Mr N feel and the 
urgent actions he needed to take.
Theres no dispute that Mr N made and authorised all of the payments. Therefore Im 
satisfied the transactions were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
Its generally accepted that Wise has an obligation to follow Mr Ns instructions. So in the 
first instance Mr N is presumed liable for his loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Wise should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Mr N fell victim to a known scam. These unfortunately arent particularly unusual but are 
invidious in the way those carrying out the scam inveigle themselves into someones trust. 
Theres no evidence to show Wise took any action apart from generic scam warnings. Ive 
noted the detailed view our investigator issued. I wont be repeating all the detail particularly 
the facts around Mr Ns use of his Wise account which Im satisfied to accept after reviewing 
the evidence.
I note what Wise has stated in response to our investigator, but I believe I can hold Wise to 
the standards required to identify unusual payments and take action.
At no stage did Wise intervene or ask Mr N what he was doing. I consider that Wise should 
have done more to identify the large, and unusual, payments Mr N was making particularly 
by the time he made the third payment on the day of £5,000. And if theyd done so, I believe 
this would have meant Mr N would have become aware he was the victim of a scam.
I cant be sure that if Wise had intervened, Mr N would have listened to their warnings, but 
Ive seen nothing which would indicate that he wouldnt. I think theres a high likelihood Mr N 
would have told Wise who hed received a call from, and Wise could have confirmed this 
was a fraud. This would have stopped the further two payments.
Putting things right
Im going to be asking Wise to refund Mr Ns losses from the time I believe they should have 
intervened. This amounts to £8,989. 8% simple interest a year will also need to be added to 
this amount from the date of Mr Ns loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Wise Payments Limited, trading as Wise, to:
refund £8,989 to Mr N; and
add 8% simple interest from 11 January 2023 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman