DRN-3139704
The complaint
Mr S complained that UK Credit Limited irresponsibly provided him with unaffordable loans.
What happened
UK Credit provided Mr S with loans as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
Repayment Loan status
1 23/08/2018 £5,500 36 months £241.08 Repaid out of 
Loan 2 proceeds
2 25/03/2019 £9,000 60 months £297.12 Repaid
Our investigator upheld Mr S complaint and set out the steps UK Credit needed to take to 
put things right. 
Mr S would like the complaint to be settled in the way our investigator recommended.
UK Credit disagreed with our investigators view. 
In brief summary, it said it had assessed both loans were affordable for Mr S. And, after now 
reviewing bank statements showing Mr S financial situation at the time of the loans, it said 
that whilst these showed him going into his overdraft and taking out high cost lending, that 
was caused by his non-essential expenditure. UK Credit said that as Mr S ran out of money 
and got himself into a tight position due only to his own spending habits, this wasnt enough 
to deem the lending unaffordable. UK Credits view was that Mr S would have a healthy 
surplus each month but for his spending on things he could cut back on. It still didnt agree 
that there was sufficient evidence to suggest that the loans were unaffordable. So the 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr S complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr S case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr S 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If it did, did UK Credit then make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Like our investigator, I dont think UK Credit shouldve provided the loans. Ill explain why 
I say this.
For loan 1, UK Credit asked Mr S some questions about his income and expenditure. UK 
Credit did its own checks, which included looking at a payslip and obtaining information 
about Mr S credit history. UK Credit relied on statistical information about how much 
someone in Mr S position typically spent each month on living costs. 
UK Credit recorded a figure of £2,416 for Mr S take home pay and used this in its 
affordability assessment. It used national average figures to reflect his living costs and took 
into account that he paid £520 for accommodation. Mr S told UK Credit that the loan was mostly for debt consolidation  in other words, he 
would be using it to pay other existing debt, which he discussed at some length with UK 
Credit. 
After allowing for Mr S spending around £709 on other credit commitments UK Credit 
expected Mr S to have after taking out its loan, UK Credit worked out that, after making the 
monthly repayments for this loan, Mr S would still have around £275 spare cash. So it felt 
the loan looked comfortably affordable for him. 
I've taken into account what UK Credit has said about how it calculated the affordability of 
this loan before it agreed to lend to Mr S. But, I dont think UK Credit made a fair lending 
decision when it lent to Mr S based on the information it had gathered. I say this because:
the take home pay figure UK Credit relied on included an element of overtime 
although it was aware that Mr S wasnt guaranteed overtime and his basic pay was 
actually less than this  around £2,290
its credit checks showed that Mr S owed around £2,155 on four credit cards, 
including one taken out just 4 months previously - so by my reckoning he had used 
approximately 86% of the available credit on his cards
he had an outstanding defaulted balance of £1,584 within the previous 2 years and 
I think UK Credit was right to spend some time trying to find out more information 
about this. Mr S said this was the result of a disputed account and UK Credit seems 
content to have accepted this explanation at face value
he was also in a payment arrangement to repay a mail order account with a balance 
of £1,753. Mr S had incurred arrears on the account a few months earlier after having 
repaid it satisfactorily for two years or so. It is clear from listening carefully to the call 
recording with Mr S that UK Credit was concerned to find out what change in 
circumstances had led to Mr S no longer being able to pay an account he seemed to 
have been operating satisfactorily for a couple of years up until that point. I think its 
also fair to say that UK Credit was unable to obtain any clear explanation for this
Mr S also told UK Credit that hed taken out a £3,000 loan with another high cost 
credit provider just the day before but that he intended to pay that money back when 
he took out this loan 
excluding the items of credit that Mr S said he would use the loan to consolidate, UK 
Credits figures suggest that Mr S would pay around 39% of his income on debt 
repayment. I think that would be such a significant amount of his take home pay that 
UK Credit couldnt reasonably have been satisfied that the repayments for this loan 
would be sustainably affordable for Mr S over the planned three year loan term  
especially keeping in mind that he would need to spend an even greater proportion of 
his contractual earnings when he wasnt able to rely on getting overtime earnings, 
which werent guaranteed. 
I've carefully listened to the call recording when UK Credit ran through its affordability checks 
with Mr S and discussed the information on its credit checks. 
I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this 
information and in particular whether it was enough for UK Credit to make a fair decision to 
lend. I dont think that anything Mr S said was sufficient to answer the questions UK Credit had 
asked or satisfactorily explain the information it saw on its credit report. And I dont think that 
UK Credit properly considered the signs of financial difficulty that this credit history showed. 
All in all, I dont think, based on what UK Credit had in front of it, I can fairly say that UK 
Credit saw enough to reasonably be satisfied that Mr S was going to be able to make the 
repayments for this loan in a sustainable way  and so it shouldnt have provided it, at least 
not without first doing more in-depth checks to ensure it had a proper understanding of his 
financial situation.
I dont think the checks it carried out before agreeing to lend on this occasion were 
proportionate in these circumstances. So I've looked at what I think a proportionate check 
would likely have shown had UK Credit looked more closely into Mr S finances at the time.  
Mr S has sent bank statements covering the period that I think give a useful insight into his 
financial situation at the time. And its my view that a proportionate check, if done, wouldve 
revealed nothing to reassure UK Credit that this loan was affordable. Far from having the 
amount of disposable income left over each month that UK Credit had calculated, in reality it 
could have seen that Mr S was struggling to stay in credit and receiving credits into the 
account from the other adult in the household  whom it was aware from its credit checks 
also had a number of accounts in debt management. 
So it was evident that Mr S was struggling with debt and he had no resources within the 
household he could draw on to help with his money problems. 
And although Mr S said the loan purpose was mainly debt consolidation, that doesnt mean 
the lending decision was fair. On taking out this loan, he would become committed to making 
contractual loan repayments which would cost more per month than he had been paying to 
service his credit card debt  and of course, he no longer had the flexible option of making 
only the minimum monthly repayments in those months when he didnt have any overtime 
earnings to boost his pay. Given the clear hallmarks of financial difficulty already evident in 
his credit history, I dont think a responsible lender would have been reasonably able to 
conclude that Mr S was likely to be able to make increased payments towards servicing debt 
when it had seen signs suggesting he was already in serious financial difficulty. And part of 
the loan in any event was always going to be extra debt as it wasnt all planned to go 
towards debt consolidation. 
All of this should have led UK Credit to the conclusion that Mr S was not managing his 
financial situation effectively  as the information it had gathered already clearly suggested. 
And I think that UK Credit shouldve realised that this loan wasnt going to be sustainably 
affordable for Mr S when it looked like he was already struggling to get through the month 
without needing to rely on credit, not making any headway towards clearing his outstanding 
debts and his new loan with UK Credit would mean he would be paying more per month 
overall. 
So, for these reasons, I dont think UK Credit should have provided this loan  or any further 
borrowing, including the top-up loan when he took out loan 2.
I've taken into account that UK Credit did impress upon Mr S the importance of using loan 1 
for debt consolidation since it had assessed affordability on the basis that he would apply the 
loan as discussed. 
But, in the event, it doesnt look like he made any meaningful or lasting impression on his 
debt. Mr S took out new lines of credit (as mightve been reasonably foreseeable from his 
credit history), his credit card balances were still substantial and his financial situation wasnt improved. Loan 2, taken out to spend on home improvements, simply added to his overall 
indebtedness which was already beyond his ability to manage without resorting to further 
credit  and so locking him into an unsustainable cycle of debt. 
And as a proportion of the £3,276 salary figure it relied on, according to UK Credits figures 
Mr S would need to spend more than a quarter of his income on debt after taking out loan 2. 
I dont think that was sustainable over the loan term. 
And in the event, given Mr S average take home pay over the 3 months between December 
2018  February 2019, in reality, he needed to commit well over a third of his actual pay 
servicing debt. 
So this reinforces my overall view that the loan was unfairly provided. 
UK Credits point that Mr S was in financial difficulty only because he was over-spending on 
non-essentials he could cut back on overlooks the reality of his financial situation as 
demonstrated on his credit report and in his bank statements. 
To my mind, it was clear that he was increasingly turning to expensive credit and still 
struggling with overdraft - and his loan applications to UK Credit were part of this overall 
picture. Nothing Mr S told UK Credit during phone calls sufficiently explained the payment 
problems that were evident on his credit file.
All in all, I think UK Credit had gathered sufficient information for it to have realised, as a 
responsible lender, that providing these loans wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable 
irrespective of the way it thought Mr S could have managed his finances.
And whilst UK Credit has said it cant be held accountable for Mr S choosing to take out 
further credit after its loan, I disagree. I dont think UK Credit saw enough to be satisfied that 
providing this loan to Mr S would help him improve his overall financial situation and it was 
reasonably foreseeable that the loan would most likely put further pressure on Mr S already 
over-stretched finances. 
Had UK Credit done more in-depth checks, it would have seen further information confirming 
that he was already in serious financial difficulty. 
So I dont think UK Credit should have agreed to give any loans to Mr S.
As Mr S has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loans that 
he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what 
UK Credit did wrong. So, I think UK Credit needs to put things right.
I havent seen enough to make me think that UK Credit acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr S some other way. So Im not proposing to award any additional redress over 
and above what I've set out below.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed when he took out the loans. 
But he has had to pay interest and charges on loans that shouldnt have been provided to 
him  which isnt fair or reasonable. The loans have been settled with nil balances owing according to the statements of account 
I have seen. 
With this in mind, UK Credit should: 
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of being given both loans 
(not including anything already refunded).The payments Mr S made should be 
deducted from this amount 
if this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
remove any adverse information placed on Mr S credit file regarding both the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to take off tax from this interest. UK Credit 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr S complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman