DRN-3113168
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that they were mis-sold a Platinum Added Value Account (PAVA) in 
March 2002 by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs J say they were pressurised into taking out the PAVA to get a loan when they 
didnt want or need the PAVA, and theyve barely used the benefits since.
Lloyds says it recommended the PAVA to Mr and Mrs J based on their circumstances at the 
time and it was suitable for them.
This sale took place in a branch and I wasnt present, so I cant know what happened at the 
time. I can only base my decision on the evidence that is available now.
Both parties agree that Mr and Mrs J had a fee free joint account and had taken out loans 
before the PAVA. And in my view fee free accounts and loans were widely available and 
advertised at the time of the sale.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs J knew they could have a fee free 
account and a loan separately from either Lloyds or another bank or financial institute if they 
wanted one. And if Lloyds had said to them that they had to pay for a PAVA to get a loan 
and they didnt want the PAVA, I think they would have declined and gone elsewhere.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs J knew they had a choice whether to take 
out the PAVA and they chose to do so.
The benefits of the PAVA included worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown service, card 
protection, purchase protection, discount on loans and a fee free overdraft of £250.
As Lloyds recommended the PAVA to Mr and Mrs J, it was required to check that the PAVA 
was suitable for them and provide them with enough information to make an informed 
decision.
In March 2002, Mr and Mrs J say that they travelled abroad each year and had a car. The 
travel insurance and car breakdown service covered them automatically, and they used the 
car breakdown service in the following year.
Mr and Mrs J benefitted regularly from the fee free overdraft. And they took a substantial 
loan the same month as they opened the PAVA and got a discount on it. In my view the 
discount on the loan wouldve gone a long way to paying for the PAVA in the early years 
they had it.
Once they had the PAVA it was for them to decide how they wanted to use the benefits. And 
Mr and Mrs J couldve closed the PAVA at any time but didnt for many years.
So, in my view, Im not able to say I think its more likely than not that the PAVA was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs J. 
And as they used some of the benefits, I think they received the relevant information about 
the PAVA, and I dont think there was any more information they didnt receive that wouldve 
put them off buying it.
So, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in the PAVA sale.
For completeness, this decision doesnt cover the issues Mr and Mrs J raised about recently 
closing their account. These would need to be taken up with TSB Bank if they are 
outstanding.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman