DRN-4211376
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (RLM) caused 
delays in setting up his annuities, leading to him having to wait several months for his first 
income payments. 
RLM has upheld the complaint. It felt it had caused a six-week delay to the process. And 
offered to pay total compensation of £976.46 to Mr A. 
But Mr A considers that the delay RLM caused was longer than six weeks. And isnt happy 
with the level of compensation offered. 
What happened
Mr A had two pension plans with RLM which both included a guarantee. His original pension 
date was 1 June 2028. 
Mr As Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) contacted RLM in early June 2022 to request 
various retirement quotations. He said he wanted the annuities to start later that month. He 
asked for quotes with the maximum Tax-Free Cash (TFC) and with no TFC. And also asked 
RLM to confirm the current fund and transfer values, if there was any enhanced TFC 
available, if there were any penalties and if there was a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR). 
RLM sent Mr A his retirement options by post on 24 June 2022. The pack was based on a 
planned retirement date of 1 August 2022. It also showed that Mr A would receive a much 
higher income with the GAR his pensions included.
The pack included the current value of Mr As two pension plans. And showed estimated 
annuity values with and without the GAR. And then provided Mr A with various options about 
how he wanted to access his benefits.
RLM sent a copy of the retirement options pack to Mr As IFA on 5 July 2022, after hed 
called to chase it. RLMs call notes recorded that the pack had been posted to Mr A rather 
than the IFA.
RLMs call notes also recorded that Mr As IFA called it on 6 July 2022 to ask it about how 
Mr A could proceed with taking out an annuity. RLM told the IFA that the annuities would be 
dealt with by the GAR Annuity Board. 
The IFA told RLM that Mr A wanted to take the benefits from his plans as annuities. RLM 
explained that its standard process was the same whether there was an IFA or not. 
Mr As IFA didnt think he needed to go through the standard process as he felt it was 
obvious that the open market option wasnt anywhere near as good as the guaranteed rate. 
He felt that Mr As health wouldnt improve the rates already offered. But RLM said that it still 
had to gather health information. Mr As IFA then asked RLM to simply send out everything 
in the post. He said he didnt want a phone call. Mr As IFA said that Mr A just wanted what 
was quoted in the 24 June 2022 pack
RLM told Mr As IFA that the call process was much faster than the paper route. It explained 
that the process would involve two calls. One would cover health and lifestyle details for the 
open market option, after which quotes would be obtained and provided. Then there would 
be a second call to discuss the quotes. 
Mr As IFA said he declined the offer of quotes and just wanted to take the figures provided 
in the 24 June 2022 pack. But RLM continued to explain the process it used and asked the 
IFA whether he wanted an appointment to be booked, or an application in the post. Mr As 
IFA confirmed he wanted the application in the post.
Mr As IFA complained to RLM on Mr As behalf about its process on 6 July 2022. He made 
the following points:
hed sent letters dated 1 and 27 June 2022 to ask for urgent annuity information 
given when Mr A had wanted to take his benefits. But RLM had chosen instead to 
send Mr A a standard letter direct. He said that RLM hadnt included any of the 
requested annuity quotes.
he didnt think the pack had been clear on how to take advantage of the guaranteed 
annuity.
He was unhappy that RLM had refused to action his request for Mr A to take the 
guaranteed annuity on an execution only basis. He felt that RLMs process of two 
calls was pointless, as Mr A simply wanted to get the GAR offered in the 24 June 
2022 pack without any calls.  
Mr As IFA said that to put things right, RLM should sent Mr A the guaranteed income 
application forms for the income confirmed in the 24 June 2022 pack. And compensate him 
for what he felt was a lost month of pension. 
RLM issued its final response to the complaint on 11 July 2022. It explained the process of 
getting annuity quotes. It acknowledged that Mr As IFA might advise Mr A to take the 
guaranteed figures, but said it still had to follow its process to find out how the annuity was to 
be paid, and by which provider. 
RLM confirmed that it couldnt process annuity claims by execution only. And said that its 
process ensured all of its customers got the best possible retirement income. 
RLM acknowledged that it shouldve sent the retirement pack to Mr As IFA, and that this had 
led to a delay in starting the annuity claims process. It apologised and offered £150 
compensation for the delay. 
Mr As IFA was unhappy with this response. He replied to RLM on 11 July 2022 to say that 
the response didnt address Mr A receiving his income. He said that although hed been 
promised a paper form to complete, nothing had come. 
RLM replied to Mr As IFA the following day. It said that either he or Mr A would need to 
follow the usual process if Mr A wanted to keep the GARs. 
On 14 July 2022, RLM spoke to Mr As IFA. It told him that it couldnt send him the paper 
application. And that he would have to go through the phone process. Mr As IFA said that 
the paper application should instead be sent to Mr A. 
RLMs call notes recorded that the call was cut short, so it didnt get the chance to explain 
the timescales of the paper route. These were 12 to16 weeks, whereas the phone route was four to six weeks. 
RLMs call notes recorded that on 20 July 2022, it tried to call Mr As IFA to find out how he 
wanted to proceed, after it had fully explained the respective timescales involved in the 
paper route against the phone route.
RLM tried to call Mr As IFA again on 29 July 2022. When it couldnt get through, it sent him 
an email explaining the timing of the phone route and the paper route. 
The email also stated that RLMs typical process involved a step which normally took 
between 10 to 15 working days, and which had already been completed. It also said that 
although its process normally involved two phone calls on separate days, it could arrange to 
carry out the entire process in one appointment. It said it wasnt normally allowed to do this, 
but that it would arrange this given the delays Mr A had already experienced.
RLM called Mr As IFA on 2 August 2022 to explain the process and timescales for both the 
paper based and the phone journey. Its call note recorded that the IFA was: now a lot more 
receptive to the phone journey as he understood the differences in timescales. A single 
appointment was set up for 5 August 2022. 
Mr A and his IFA were both on the 5 August 2022 call, but the IFA took the lead. Mr A was 
asked about his health and lifestyle. RLM confirmed that Mr A could potentially still get a 
GAR if he took a joint life annuity. 
The IFA confirmed that Mr A didnt want to take TFC. RLM explained that if Mr A wanted to 
take the GAR, he would need to include a 10-year guarantee, the pension would need to be 
level and to be paid quarterly in advance. It also explained the two options for a joint life 
pension. And said it could quote for both. 
Mr As IFA asked for joint life quotes to be produced as, depending on the rate, he might 
change his mind. RLMs call notes recorded that the IFA was aware that if the joint life option 
was taken a follow up appointment would be needed to take the spouse's health and lifestyle 
information and then requote.
RLM provided various quotes for each pension with effect from 1 September 2022. It also 
confirmed that the open market option couldnt beat the GAR, and noted which provider 
would be used. 
After the call, RLM acknowledged receipt of the application form in an email dated 11 August 
2022. RLM said that the total processing time for the application would be in the region of 
four to six weeks from receipt of all completed documentation. 
On 10 October 2022, RLM wrote to the annuity provider to tell it Mr A was going to proceed 
with the annuity quotation it had offered. It asked it to process the application as a matter of 
urgency. 
Also on 10 October 2022, Mr As IFA complained to RLM about its failure to get the pension 
set up and paid out in September 2022. He felt it had failed to meet the four to six weeks the 
process was expected to take. And that it had failed to communicate the delays. 
Mr As IFA called and emailed RLM further about Mr As complaint. He asked RLM to send 
Mr A his first annuity payment, noting hed already been waiting since June for it. 
RLM replied to Mr As IFA on 11 October 2022. It explained that it had received the final 
information it needed from Mr A on 18 August 2022. But that it was still waiting for updated values which itd initially requested on 5 August 2022, chased on 2 and 29 September 2022 
and only received on 7 October 2022. 
RLM said it couldnt make a payment to Mr A. But that it would look into whether any 
compensation should be paid as part of the complaint. 
RLM also wrote to Mr A on 12 and 13 October 2022 to tell him itd sent payment for his 
annuities to the annuity provider. 
RLM issued its final response to the delay complaint on 14 October 2022. It said that after it 
had received the completed application packs on 12 August 2022, only one of the 
applications was submitted to the new pension provider. It said that the payment request 
was subsequently received on 16 August 2022. So that claim shouldve been paid by 1 
September 2022 at the latest. It said that one of the claims had been processed and paid on 
10 October 2022 and the other on 12 October 2022.
RLM said that the other plan had been incorrectly referred for an updated fund value before 
submitting the application. And that this had led to the income payable reducing from 
£2,048.08 a year to £2,038.84.
RLM apologised for the service it had provided. And for the stress and inconvenience it may 
have caused. And offered to pay total compensation of £976.46 to Mr A. The compensation 
figure was made up of:
£184.80 in respect of the difference between the original income payable and the 
revised income following the incorrect request for an application requote. (Calculated 
as £9.24 each year payable over a 20-year period.);
An equivalent income payment of £591.66 representing the six-week delay incurred 
in paying both of the claims; and
£200.00 for the distress or inconvenience caused
Mr As IFA didnt agree with RLMs calculations. He asked for some clarification. He also 
wanted the loss calculation to take account of the points hed made, and additional 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
RLM didnt respond, so Mr A brought his complaint to this service. He felt the compensation 
RLM had offered for a 6-week delay wasnt correct. He said it had been four months since 
he'd wanted the pension to start. He also felt that the compensation offered for distress and 
inconvenience was too low. 
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that RLM had been poor in 
its information gathering process. And that it had required unnecessary phone calls. He also 
felt it had caused delays in obtaining values. He felt that all the necessary details and forms 
couldve been returned to RLM and processed by 29 June 2022 (7 working days from 21 
June 2022). And therefore that was when Mr As annuities ought to have started.
Our investigator felt that the total distress and inconvenience payments RLM had offered 
were fair and reasonable. But that its financial redress offer wasnt right. He felt it should 
backdate the annuities start dates to 29 June 2022. He outlined how this should be done, 
including an allowance for the compensation RLM had already paid. 
RLM didnt agree with our investigator. It said it wouldnt have been possible for the pensions 
to have been in payment in the timescales our investigator had outlined. And that the process couldnt go faster simply because an IFA was involved. It felt its offer of redress was 
fair. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 8 June 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I dont agree with our investigator that the 
pensions shouldve been processed by 29 June 2022. And I agree with RLM that its offer of 
compensation is reasonable under the circumstances. I know my decision will be 
disappointing to Mr A. Ill explain my reasons for it. 
Where a business has made an offer to settle a complaint  as RLM has done  what I have 
to decide is whether, in all the circumstances, that offer is fair and reasonable.
In this case, RLM has acknowledged that it delayed the annuities by 6 weeks. And has 
carried out a loss assessment based on what the annuities wouldve been but for the delays 
it caused. Its also offered a total of £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
may have caused. 
Mr A doesnt agree with the loss assessment. He thinks that the delay was much longer than 
6 weeks. And that the compensation offered isnt enough.
As our investigator noted, when a business does something wrong, and makes an offer, this 
service will assess whether the offer is sufficient to fairly put things right. We want, as far as 
reasonably possible, to put Mr A back into the position he wouldve been in but for the delays 
RLM caused. 
In reaching this decision, Ive relied upon what I consider wouldve happened - on the 
balance of probabilities  if RLM hadnt delayed the process. To do this, Ive looked at Mr A 
and his IFAs response times as well. Ive also based my decision on what I consider to be 
reasonable timescales for RLM to have carried out an action. 
RLMs annuity process
I first considered RLMs annuity process. Mr A and his adviser feel that the two-step process 
for obtaining a guaranteed annuity is unnecessarily time-consuming, and that it shouldnt be 
needed when an IFA is involved. 
In its July 2022 final response letter, RLM acknowledged that Mr As IFA mightve advised 
him to take the guaranteed figures included in his 24 June 2022 pack, but said it still had to 
follow its process to find out how the annuity is to be paid, and by which provider. It said that 
its process ensured all of its customers got the best possible retirement income. 
From the evidence Ive seen, while Mr A did receive a quote for his pension plans in the 24 
June 2022 pack, he hadnt yet specified what annuity he wanted. For example, he hadnt 
decided whether he wanted a single life or a joint life pension, or if he would take any TFC. 
He also hadnt considered whether he wanted to include a pension guarantee, or if he 
wanted his pension to increase in payment or not. 
Mr As IFA was aware of the decisions Mr A would need to make about his annuity. I say this 
because he asked RLM for information about Mr As pension plans in July 2021. RLM explained the circumstances under which Mr A would keep his GAR. It said: 
You will keep the Guaranteed Annuity if you take your benefits between age 60 and age 75 
and choose a regular income which:
is payable for life; this is known as a single lifetime annuity;
on your death it becomes payable to your dependant at the same rate as your 
regular income; this is known as a 100% joint-life lifetime annuity;
has a 10-year guaranteed period. This means that in the event that you die within 10 
years of taking your regular income, we still pay an income at the full rate for the rest 
of the 10-year term;
does not increase once in payment;
is paid to you quarterly in advance.
As our investigator noted, it isnt appropriate for this service to tell RLM how to operate. Its 
entitled to run its processes how it likes, as long as it meets the conditions imposed by its 
regulator. And the processes arent unfair to its customers.
I dont agree with our investigator that RLMs process caused a systematic delay to the 
annuity process because it doesnt now provide annuities itself, but instead outsources its 
annuity provision. I say this because Im satisfied that RLMs process would be the same or 
similar if it sold annuities itself. Im satisfied that it still wouldve tested the GAR against any 
possible enhanced rate available on the open market. So it wouldve needed the same 
information from Mr A, regardless of who ended up providing the annuity.
Although I dont agree with our investigator that RLMs two-stage process caused systematic 
delays, I can see that RLM did cause some delays. I next considered the length of the delay 
it caused.
How much delay did RLM cause?
RLM felt it had caused six weeks of delay when it failed to submit one of the applications to 
the annuity provider. It said the claims shouldve been processed by 1 September 2022 at 
the latest. But the claims were only processed on 10 and 12 October 2022.
Mr A told this service that he received the first quarterly payments from his annuities on 25 
and 31 October 2022.
I agree with our investigator that after Mr As IFAs 8 June 2022 information request to RLM, 
it shouldve replied to him within 10 working days. If this had happened, Mr As IFA wouldve 
received the information pack on 21 June 2022. He actually received the pack on 5 July 
2022, after which he called RLM the following day. So, if hed received the pack on 21 June 
2022, its reasonable to assume he wouldve called RLM on 22 June 2022, rather than 6 July 
2022. This means Im satisfied RLM caused a two-week delay here.
As I noted earlier, I consider that RLMs two-call process is in the best interests of its 
policyholders, therefore I dont agree with our investigator that RLM shouldve waived the 
requirement for two calls simply because Mr A was receiving financial advice. 
I also dont agree with our investigator that Mr As IFA had confirmed exactly what Mr A 
wanted during his initial call to RLM on 8 June 2022. Nor do I agree that RLM couldve asked Mr As IFA for any further information it needed to assess Mr As eligibility for an enhanced 
annuity during that call. 
I say this because Im not persuaded Mr As IFA wouldve had the detail required for a full 
assessment of Mr As health and lifestyle needed to assess whether an enhanced annuity 
would be available. And I can also see that Mr A hadnt yet decided the exact shape of the 
annuity he wanted. As I noted earlier, he hadnt specified whether he wanted a single or joint 
life policy, nor had he stated whether he wanted to take TFC, amongst other things. So Im 
not persuaded RLM shouldve been clear exactly what annuity Mr A wanted to take. 
Therefore I cant fairly agree with our investigators conclusion that the annuities shouldve 
been processed by 29 June 2022. 
From what Ive seen, there was a delay between 6 July 2022 and 18 August 2022 which I 
cant fairly say was caused by RLM. I say this because the evidence shows that Mr As IFA 
didnt fully engage with RLMs process, as he didnt agree with it. As I noted earlier, it 
wouldnt have been possible for RLM to set up Mr As annuities until he had decided on the 
basis for them. And when Mr As IFA declined the two-call process, RLM didnt get the 
chance to explain how much longer the paper-based application would take.  
The record shows that RLM tried on several occasions during this period to call Mr As IFA to 
explain the relative timescales, but he was on holiday. So RLM ended up emailing Mr As 
IFA to explain the timescales. In the meantime, it did what work it could to progress Mr As 
case. And once Mr As IFA had accepted that the best option was to follow the two-call 
process, RLM arranged for both calls to take place during a single appointment, which it 
booked quickly. 
Im satisfied that the final part of the delay  the period between 11 August 2022  when 
RLM received Mr As application - and 18 August 2022, when it said it had received the final 
documentation it needed from Mr A, was outside of RLMs control. 
I acknowledge that Mr As IFA felt that RLM had confirmed that Mr As application would take 
between four and six weeks to conclude after his 11 August 2022 application. But I 
understand that RLM didnt actually receive all the documentation it needed from Mr A until 
18 August 2022. Our investigator felt that RLM shouldve asked for all required 
documentation earlier, and therefore held it responsible for the delay between 11 and 18 
August 2022. But Ive not seen any evidence that shows RLM was responsible. 
After RLM received all of the required documentation, the annuities were processed around 
eight weeks later. But, according to the information RLM had given Mr A, they shouldve 
been processed in four to six weeks. So RLM caused at least a two-week delay here. And 
possibly up to a four-week delay.
Overall, Im satisfied that RLM caused a total delay of between four and six weeks. 
Distress and inconvenience
RLM has paid Mr A a total of £350 for the delays it caused. 
While I acknowledge that the delayed annuities caused Mr A some distress and 
inconvenience, I consider that this amount of compensation is reasonable under the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
As RLM has also already compensated Mr A for a six-week delay, I consider that it has 
already taken reasonable steps to put things right. Therefore I dont intend to uphold the complaint. And I dont intend to ask RLM to do anything further.  
Response to my provisional decision
RLM accepted my provisional decision.
Mr A said that he mostly agreed with my provisional decision. And had nothing further to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has come to light to change my opinion, I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman