DRN-3670140
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance to 
them alongside a mortgage. 
I know Mr and Mrs G have made a separate complaint about another PPI policy sold with a 
mortgage. To be clear, this decision is about the PPI policy taken out with the mortgage that 
ran from in or around 1997 to 1999. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs G did not agree with 
that view. They said: 
The mortgage had not started in 1997 and they had provided bank statements to 
show payments of PPI from 1996. They moved into their property in September 
1996, so the mortgage must have started before February 1997 as stated by our 
adjudicator; 
The PPI section on the mortgage application form had been left blank. This was res 
ipsa loquitur evidence that PPI was mis-sold; 
Our adjudicator should not have used the information provided by Mr and Mrs G in 
2021 to justify a hindsight view of what happened when the cover was sold some 
years ago. She should have focused on the process of the sale at the time; and
Our adjudicator retrospectively checking Mr and Mrs Gs eligibility for the sale was 
like an alternative redress approach; an approach which the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) shot down in flames. 
As Mr and Mrs G did not agree with our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, but after considering all of the information they 
provided, I havent upheld their complaint. Ill explain why below.
I dont have a lot of information from the point of sale. Thats not unusual given the mortgage 
and the cover started over 20 years ago. Businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely. I wouldnt expect either party to retain full records for such a long time. So, 
where the facts of a case are in dispute (as they are here), I have to apply the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, I must decide whats most likely to have happened given the 
evidence before me. 
The first thing Ive considered is when the mortgage protected by the PPI policy started.  Mr 
and Mrs G say it began in September 1996. Lloyds says it began in February 1997. Looking 
at the information provided by Mr and Mrs G, I think its unlikely that the mortgage for their 
new property started in September 1996. 
I say this because from the mortgage offer dated 2 August 1996, it looks as though Mr and 
Mrs Gs mortgage repayments for their new mortgage would have been more than £700 per 
month. However, the mortgage repayments showing on the bank statements in 1995 and 
1996 (including September) were broadly the same and in the region of £530 per month. In 
addition to that, for the new mortgage, the evidence Ive seen suggests the PPI premiums 
were collected at the same time as Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage repayments. So I wouldnt 
have necessarily expected to see the PPI itemised as a separate charge on their bank 
statements in 1996. I think the PPI payments shown on the bank statements in 1996 most 
likely refer to a separate mortgage. I cant reasonably say the new mortgage began in 
September 1996. 
On balance, and in considering the electronic information provided by Lloyds, Im satisfied 
its most likely the funds were most likely drawn down for the new mortgage in or around 
February 1997, which is when the PPI policy would have also started. 
Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs G would have known PPI was optional and they didnt 
have to take it out if they didnt want it. I have no paperwork showing precisely how or when 
the PPI policy was sold. I have seen a copy of the mortgage application form in which PPI 
was not selected. And I have carefully considered what Mr and Mrs G said about the sale. 
Mr and Mrs G said the fact that PPI was not selected on the application form was res ipsa 
loquitur (or the thing speaks for itself) evidence that PPI was mis-sold. Im afraid I dont 
agree that the only conclusion I can draw from the blank section on the application form is 
that PPI was mis-sold. I think it shows PPI was not sold at the same time as Mr and Mrs G 
made their mortgage application. From what we know about the way PPI policies were 
generally sold, it was not uncommon for a policy to have been sold at a later appointment 
with the bank, or even by way of a leaflet sometime later. I dont agree with Mr and Mrs G 
that their mortgage wouldnt have been agreed without a PPI policy. 
Ive been provided with a copy of the mortgage offer dated 2 August 1996. If PPI had been 
sold by that point, or it was a compulsory element of the mortgage, I would usually expect to 
see reference to the policy on the mortgage offer. I can see that the property insurance is 
referenced on the mortgage offer, but PPI is not. It seems to me that PPI would most likely 
have been sold after 2 August 1996, but before the mortgage and the policy started in 
February 1997.
So, if the mortgage had already been agreed in August 1996 and PPI was sold after that 
date, I think it would have been clear to Mr and Mrs G that the cover was optional and they 
didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. Thats because it puts a greater responsibility on Lloyds 
to have made sure the cover was suitable for Mr and Mrs Gs needs. To help me decide 
whether the cover was suitable for them, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and 
conditions of the cover. And Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs G told us about their 
personal circumstances at the time. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G did not agree with our adjudicators approach in this regard. They 
said she should not have retrospectively considered their circumstances. However, it is 
difficult to see how she could have otherwise assessed whether the PPI was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs G at the point of sale. I do not agree with Mr and Mrs G that this approach is 
essentially the same as an alternative redress approach. Alternative redress is provided 
for in the FCAs DISP rules and may apply where a business decides that a consumer would 
have bought a regular premium PPI policy, rather than a single premium policy. I cannot see 
how the approach adopted by our adjudicator, which is the approach generally adopted by 
this service, is analogous to alternative redress. 
From what Ive seen, the PPI policy was set up to cover Mr and Mrs G for 50% of the 
monthly benefit each. That means that if either of them was off sick from work or if they were 
made redundant, 50% of the cost of their mortgage would have been covered by the PPI. If they were both off sick or lost their jobs at the same time, 100% of their mortgage costs 
would have effectively been covered. The cover would have lasted for up to 12 months for 
each claim and cover would have started after 60 days of the start of an illness or 
redundancy. 
I can see from what Mr and Mrs G told us about their personal circumstances from the point 
of sale, that they would have both received some sick pay from their employers of between 
three and six months. The PPI would have paid out for longer than their contractual sick pay 
from work would have lasted. 
I havent been given any information to show that Mr and Mrs G had any other means such 
as savings to rely on if either or both of them was out of work. I can see they said they would 
have been able to rely on family members to help if they couldnt work. I dont at all doubt 
that it would have been the intention of those family members to assist in such 
circumstances. But circumstances can change and that assistance may not have always 
been available as and when Mr and Mrs G needed it. 
Ive next considered whether any of the policys limitations or exclusions would have affected 
the suitability of the PPI. I understand Mr and Mrs G were in good health at the relevant time, 
so I dont think any of the exceptions around medical conditions apply. And I havent seen 
anything unusual about their employment circumstances that would have stopped the from 
being able to make a successful claim if they needed to. 
I must stress that Mr and Mrs Gs borrowing was secured on their home, which could have 
been at risk if they fell behind with their repayments. And with all of these things in mind, I 
can see how PPI could have been helpful if one or both of them was out of work. On 
balance, Im satisfied PPI was most likely suitable for them at the point of Lloyds 
recommendation.
Even so, Lloyds still had to give Mr and Mrs G enough information about the cover so they 
could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. I accept its possible 
that Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs G everything it should have done about the PPI. But that 
doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I have to consider whether Mr and 
Mrs G would have acted differently if Lloyds had told them everything it should have done. 
Ive set out above how PPI could have been helpful if Mr and Mrs G were out of work. I 
havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable. It follows then that I cant 
reasonably say they would have acted differently if Lloyds had given them more or better 
information about the PPI. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, but Im afraid my decision is that the cover was not 
mis-sold. That means I dont need to tell Lloyds to take any further action in respect of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman