DRN-3489903
The complaint
T (a business) complains about West Bay Insurance Plcs handling of a claim made 
following the theft of tools from a van.
T is represented by Mr E, so Ill refer to Mr E within this decision. 
Claims on the policy are administered by a representative on West Bays behalf. Where I 
refer in this decision to West Bay, this includes this representative.
What happened
T has insurance for tools it owns with West Bay. The policy includes cover for thefts of tools 
owned by T.
A number of tools and equipment was stolen from a van. T made a claim on the policy. Mr E, 
on behalf of T, complained about delays and communication during the claim, saying it was 
taking too long to resolve and Ts business was being affected. He was also unhappy with 
the requests for information being made by West Bay.
West Bay acknowledged it could have handled the claim better, and that communication with 
Mr E could have been clearer. It said it would waive the £100 policy excess to recognise this. 
It also made an offer to settle the claim.
Mr Es unhappy with the offer that was made, and that the loss of Ts income hasnt been 
recognised by West Bay. He referred Ts complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought that the settlement offer made by West Bay was fair. He thought 
that West Bay should pay £200 to recognise the impact on T, and pay £400 for the loss of 
income which arose from avoidable delays during the claim. West Bay didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three elements to Ts complaint that I need to address separately. These are the 
claim settlement offer, delays and communication with West Bay and loss of income.
The settlement offer
West Bays offer to settle the claim was based on the items Mr E provided receipts for. 
However, T also claimed additional tools valued at an additional £250, for which no receipt 
or other proof of purchase has been provided. West Bay has declined to make any offer for 
these items. Mr E believes that these should be included in the settlement. 
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
You must provide us with any receipts, documents or proof of purchase, that is reasonable 
for us to request or we may refuse to consider your claim
The tools claimed were items owned by T as a business, and used for business purposes. I 
consider it fair for West Bay to say that in such circumstances, T should be able to evidence 
the purchase of the items and the amount claimed. I think its reasonable for West Bay to 
require proof of purchase for the tools claimed in these circumstances. The terms and 
conditions say that if such receipts arent provided, the claim may be unsuccessful. I 
conclude that it acted reasonably by declining to include the items for which no evidence of 
purchase was provided by T in the settlement.
I conclude that West Bays settlement offer was fair and reasonable.
Delays and communication
West Bay has acknowledged that its communication with Mr E could have been better. I 
agree with its conclusion that in emails with Mr E, it could have been clearer about what was 
being requested and the reasons for this. Its also acknowledged that it sent requests for the 
same information on multiple occasions, despite Mr E having responded to these requests. 
To recognise this, West Bay said it would waive the £100 excess which would normally be 
deducted from the settlement. Im not satisfied this properly recognises the impact of the 
issues around communication. The poor communication caused inconvenience to T, for 
example by Mr E as its representative having to respond to unclear requests, or to say that 
the queries raised had already been addressed to the best of his knowledge.
Im also satisfied that avoidable delays did occur during the course of the claim. One 
particular area of dispute was around the provision of a police report or other evidence of the 
theft. Mr E explained in correspondence that the police had told him that West Bay would 
need to contact them for information, and had also explained why other evidence wasnt 
available due to the way in which the theft had occurred. As part of the complaint process, 
West Bay accepted this explanation, but Im satisfied that this could have been agreed 
several weeks earlier, and the claim progressed sooner. 
So Im satisfied that an avoidable delay of several weeks can be attributed to the actions of 
West Bay. This would have caused inconvenience to T at a time when tools it needed for its 
work had been stolen, as well as the inconvenience Ive mentioned above of needing to 
repeatedly respond to the same queries from West Bay.
In order to recognise the inconvenience caused to T by these delays and the communication 
issues, I conclude that West Bay should pay £200 compensation.
Loss of income
T believes that West Bay should be liable for its loss of income during the period where the 
claim was outstanding. Its estimated its lost income during this period of being in excess of 
£6,000.
In support of Ts claim for this amount, weve been provided with bank statements. 
Unfortunately these are not business accounts, but Mr Es personal accounts. As such Im 
not satisfied that I can safely conclude that these statements show Ts reduced income over 
the period in question. We dont have any accounts showing the income and expenditure  of 
T, or business accounts showing a significant decrease in income.
T's claim is also based on the entire period of the claim, and also on an ongoing basis because of the reduced settlement West Bay offered which didnt include some items 
claimed.
Ive concluded above that the settlement offer was fair. While the claim did take some time to 
resolve before the settlement offer was made, Ive only attributed a period of several weeks 
which could have been avoided. Im satisfied that the remainder of the time the claim took to 
progress was reasonable in light of the requests being made by West Bay and the provision 
of information by T. The nature of any insurance claim is that it will always take an amount of 
time and inconvenience to resolve  its only avoidable delay that an insurer should be 
additionally liable for in addition to its liabilities on the policy.
I do think that West Bay should make a payment for the lost income of T over the period of 
avoidable delays  I think that the settlement could have been made several weeks earlier 
and this would have enabled T to resume its full trading sooner. As Ive said, its difficult to 
give a precise sum for this given the lack of evidence but I accept that there would have 
been a reduced income for T during that period. Our investigator thought that £400 was an 
appropriate figure for this. T hasnt commented on this figure, while West Bay doesnt 
believe it should pay anything in this regard.
In the absence of anything additional to persuade me that the amount of £400 should be 
higher, or any reasons given why it should be lower than this amount, Im satisfied that this is 
a reasonable figure. 
I conclude that West Bay should pay T £400 for lost income arising from avoidable delays.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, its my final 
decision that West Bay Insurance Plc must:
Pay £200 compensation.
Pay £400 for loss of income.
West Bay must pay these amounts within 28 days of us telling it that T accepts my final 
decision. If it does not, it must pay simple interest on these amounts at a rate of 8% from that 
date to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
. 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman