DRN-3596054
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the approach U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance 
(UKI) is taking to remedial works to his kitchen following a claim on his building insurance 
policy for an escape of water.
What happened
References to Mr P and UKI include respective representatives and agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
There was an escape of water at Mr Ps property and there was damage to his 
kitchen as a result. He made a claim on the policy. After some back and forth UKI 
declined to fit an entire new kitchen. Mr P didnt think UKI would be able to provide 
an exact match for the carcass of a damaged kitchen cupboard so he raised a 
complaint with this Service.
This was ultimately considered by an Ombudsman who issued a decision not 
upholding the complaint. He thought UKIs approach of replacing the external visible 
parts of the kitchen was fair and didnt think it would be fair for it to replace all the 
carcasses which couldnt be seen simply because one was damaged. Mr P rejected 
this decision so it wasnt binding on the parties.
Mr P got back in contact with this Service in 2020 and raised this new complaint. He 
said UKIs kitchen expert had attended the property to assess the remedial work 
required and told him the carcasses couldnt be matched exactly. And because of 
this Mr P said he wanted UKI to fit an entirely new kitchen including all associated 
works such as plastering, electrics, plumbing and tiling and he wanted £5,000 
compensation for what he described as lies and deception by UKI.
Our Investigator explained we could only consider the new evidence that had arisen 
since the last final decision was issued. Having done so, she didnt uphold the 
complaint as she was satisfied the mismatch on the edging and inside the carcass 
wasnt significant enough to tell UKI to replace all the carcasses. And she didnt have 
sufficient evidence to uphold Mr Ps other concerns.
Mr P asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made reference to another case from some years ago he says has similar 
circumstances as this one and so he says a precedent has been set and implies this 
must be followed. I should be clear that when reaching final decisions, Ombudsman 
dont set legal precedence. Every case we look at is assessed on its own merits and 
inevitably there will be differences in cases that on the surface may appear similar. 
Its for the deciding Ombudsman to reach a decision about what is fair and 
reasonable to both parties based on all the evidence and individual and specific 
circumstances of the case in front of them.
As Ive detailed above, an Ombudsman already issued a decision on the matter at 
the heart of this complaint so Im only looking at any new evidence or issues that 
have arisen since then. 
Mr P rejected the previous decision but UKI still sent round a contractor to undertake 
remedial work. The contractor said in his report if a new unit is installed then the 
direct neighbours of the new unit will show to be aged against the new unit. So, this 
is the new evidence I need to consider to decide if UKI should replace the entire 
kitchen and undertake all the work Mr P has requested.
I know Mr P believes UKI has doctored the report to suit its own ends and the 
contractor said more than is included in it but Ive seen nothing which persuades me 
this accusation has merit.
The key term here sits within the buildings insurance part of the policy: We wont pay 
to replace or alter any undamaged items solely because they are part of a set, suite, 
group or collection, unless they are part of afitted kitchen and the damaged parts 
cant be repaired or replaced.
Ive seen no evidence which persuades me the damaged unit cant be replaced so on 
the face of it, UKI is under no obligation to replace the undamaged units. But if it just 
replaces the damaged unit, its clear there may be some colour mismatch due to 
ageing of the neighbouring units. So, Ive gone on to consider whether this is 
sufficient to direct UKI to replace the entire kitchen and associated works.
UKI has already agreed to replace the visible parts of the kitchen units including the 
door and drawer fronts, plinths and panels. During Mr Ps representatives 
conversation with our Investigator  which Ive listened carefully to  he explains the 
mismatch relates to the inside of the carcass and the edging of the damaged unit 
which isnt completely hidden, when the door is open.  
From this it seems to me the mismatch is likely to be slight due to the aging process 
 rather than the lack of availability of a unit of the same colour for example  and 
predominantly hidden from view, inside the carcass and likely not obviously visible 
when the door is closed. Im not persuaded it would be proportionate to replace the 
entire kitchen because of this minor difference. 
Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me Mr Ps accusation of UKIs lies and 
deception have merit and so I wont be making an award for this.
Overall, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to direct UKI to replace the 
entire kitchen and I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman