DRN-3150523
The complaint
Ms H complains that True Potential Investments LLP (TPI) delayed the transfer of her Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to another provider. She said it caused her a financial 
loss.
What happened
Ms H moved her pension plan held with another provider into a SIPP with TPI in November 
2017. The transfer was arranged through an adviser who worked in association with TPI 
between 2012 and 2017 as a restricted financial adviser. 
Ms H wanted to transfer her SIPP from TPI. So in late 2019 she requested advice from 
another firm. And in early 2020 decided to move her SIPP to a lower risk portfolio with 
another provider.
Before they could recommend a transfer, Ms Hs new adviser asked her previous adviser for 
a full transaction history. The adviser didnt provide the required information. So TPI were 
asked to provide it instead. Once this had been provided, the new adviser recommended 
that Ms H switch her SIPP to a new provider. 
The new adviser asked TPI to transfer Ms Hs SIPP on 17 February 2020. The SIPP funds 
were transferred on 16 March 2020. 
Ms H felt that the transfer process had taken too long. So she complained to TPI. 
TPI issued their final response letter in June 2020. They didnt uphold the complaint. They 
detailed the actions theyd taken after receiving the transfer request. They said that they 
aimed to complete transfers in 10 working days. But that Ms Hs switch had taken 12 days 
as theyd faced a high volume of requests at the time. As the switch had only taken two 
days more than usual, they didnt agree theyd caused any unreasonable delay. 
Unsatisfied with TPIs response, Ms H referred her complaint to this service. She wanted TPI 
to compensate her for the loss in the SIPP value transferred. 
In his initial view, our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He 
didnt feel able to say that TPI had caused an unreasonable delay in switching Ms Hs SIPP 
to another provider.
Ms H didnt agree with our investigator. She said shed started the process of looking for 
another provider in late 2019. She said she felt that the funds she was invested in were 
performing poorly. She didnt agree that the transfer had been done in a timely manner. She 
said that if her original adviser had acted quickly on her request for information, her plan 
value wouldnt have decreased so significantly as it wouldve been invested in less 
adventurous funds. She said that given this, it was possible that her complaint should be 
addressed at the original adviser. Ms H also felt that TPI had taken longer than they should 
have to complete the transfer. And that this had also contributed to her loss. Ms H didnt 
agree with our investigator that it was fair to suggest she couldve moved her funds into cash 
to protect her plan value. This is because she didnt consider that the impact of the 
pandemic was significant at the time. 
Our investigator considered Ms Hs points and issued a second view. He still didnt consider 
her complaint against TPI should be upheld. But he looked into the requests Ms H had made 
to her original adviser. He said that this adviser was authorised as an adviser for TPI until he 
became directly authorised under his own business by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) on 1 November 2017. He said that Ms Hs complaint had been raised against TPI, not 
the original advisers business. So he could only consider the issues Ms H had raised 
against TPI. 
Following our investigators second view, Ms H made further comments. She said she was 
never informed by her adviser that he was no longer working under TPIs umbrella. She felt 
she shouldve been told this. She said that not knowing this had led to her request for 
information initially being sent to the wrong place. She said that shed started the transfer 
process in late 2019. And it was around three months later before the relevant information 
was made available. Ms H said that financial markets were still relatively buoyant at this 
point. And therefore felt that if the process had been handled efficiently by both her original 
adviser and TPI, the transfer wouldve progressed quicker. She felt this wouldve led to a 
less significant loss for her. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will disappoint Ms H. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision. 
Ms H said that she made an initial enquiry about transferring her funds in November 2019. 
She appointed her new adviser to review her pension needs. The new adviser needed to get 
all the relevant information about Ms Hs pensions before he could consider advising her. 
Based on what Ive seen, it took longer than ideal for the new adviser to get the required 
information about Ms Hs pension held with TPI. Her original adviser didnt respond to the 
information requests. So the new adviser had to request this information from TPI directly. 
TPI provided the required information. 
I do acknowledge Ms Hs frustration that neither her original adviser, nor TPI, informed her 
that they were no longer connected. So she still thought they were linked. And therefore I 
consider it was reasonable for her to assume that any request for information sent to her 
original adviser would be forwarded to TPI if needed. If this had happened, I agree that the 
transfer couldve been arranged more quickly. As the information request wasnt passed on, 
it clearly did take longer than it couldve taken to access the information the new adviser 
needed. 
TPI told this service that the original adviser had never been their appointed representative. 
They said that the adviser worked in association with them between 2012 and 2017 as a 
restricted financial adviser. And that the advisers business was first registered as being 
directly authorised by the FCA in November 2017. They said this was the same month that 
Ms Hs adviser stopped working with them. So the original adviser didnt work for TPI. It was 
therefore the original advisers responsibility to detail any changes to the advisory 
relationship, and what they meant for Ms H. It wasnt TPIs responsibility. As Ive seen no evidence that TPI didnt respond in a timely fashion to the information request, when it 
reached them, I cant hold them responsible for the actions of Ms Hs original adviser. 
Ms Hs funds werent transferred until 16 March 2020. She considers that the transfer took 
too long. And that the value of the transfer fell significantly while she was waiting for it to 
complete. She said: During this time frame the funds peaked (General Election/ Brexit) and 
then crashed (start of Covid pandemic). I have consequently suffered the loss.  Ms H said 
that TPI took too long to process the transfer. 
Ive reviewed the timeline of events TPI outlined in their final response letter against other 
evidence provided. Im satisfied that it reflects what happened, and when it happened. TPI 
received the request to transfer on 17 February 2020. They began to sell funds on 5 March 
2020, 12 working days later. The disinvestment process then took five working days. And 
completed on 12 March 2020. The funds were finally sent to the new provider on 16 March 
2020.
In summary, I acknowledge that Ms H is disappointed that her transfer wasnt completed 
more quickly. I understand why she feels that a quicker transfer process wouldve led to a 
less significant fall in value of her pension plan. But Ive found no evidence that TPI caused 
any significant delay to the process. I appreciate that TPI did take two days longer than they 
wouldve liked to process the transfer. But I consider that this wasnt unfair or unreasonable 
given the high volumes of requests TPI said they experienced during this time. Unfortunately 
this means that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to uphold this complaint against TPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman