DRN-2844350
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined her claim on her home 
insurance. 
 
What happened
Mrs P had home insurance with Admiral. In December 2019 she made a claim after waste 
water from her kitchen sink and washing machine rose up to ground level and caused 
damage to the wooden floor in her conservatory. 
Admiral sent out a contractor to carry out an investigation into the cause. The contractor 
concluded that pipes from the sink and washing machine terminated into the earth below the 
conservatory, rather than into a drain. This meant over time the earth had become saturated 
which led to water rising onto the floor and walls of the conservatory. 
Following this Admiral declined Mrs Ps claim. It said three policy exclusions applied:
Any loss or damage caused by faulty design, plan, specification, materials or
workmanship.
Any loss or damage caused by anything that happens gradually including wear and 
tear, wet and dry rot, damage due to exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions, 
due to settlement, or any due to mildew, rust, corrosion, birds, insects, woodworm, 
pests or vermin.
Any loss, damage, injury or liability as a result of an event which happened before 
this policy commenced.
Mrs P didnt agree. She said she had only moved into the property 18 months before the 
claim, and there had been no problems raised on her pre-purchase survey. She made a 
complaint.
Admiral didnt uphold the complaint. It said it was satisfied that the three policy exclusions 
applied, as the pipes had been incorrectly fitted to drain into the earth.
Mrs P didnt think this was fair. She said after Admirals contractors had left, she dug into the 
ground a little deeper and took photos of a drain that was buried deeper down. She said that 
this proved there was the correct drainage in place. She brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator provided Admiral with the photo of the drain, but it said this didnt change its 
view. It said this showed the waste pipes werent connected to the drain so the exclusions 
still applied. Further it said blocked drains were also excluded from the policy. Our 
investigator considered everything and thought Admiral had acted fairly by declining the 
claim based on the exclusions. So she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Since our investigator issued their opinion, Mrs P has confirmed that she has had the 
problem repaired. She said the company she instructed had confirmed that there was a drain 
in place and the issue was that this was blocked. So she says Admiral were wrong when it 
concluded there was no drain. 
Our investigator considered this but it didnt change their view. So Mrs P asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made its for the insured to prove there is an insured peril 
something that is covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the claim 
or prove an exclusion applies.
In this case Admiral has said three policy exclusions apply. In order to fairly decline the claim 
it only needs to prove that one applies. So I need to decide if it has done enough to prove 
that one of the exclusions it has quoted fairly applies to this claim.
To do this Ive looked at the evidence provided by both sides. At this service, we arent 
experts in buildings or drainage issues, so we rely on reports from those who are. 
When the claim was made Admiral sent out a leak detection expert to determine the cause 
of the problem. Its report concluded that the pipes taking waster water from various kitchen 
appliances terminated straight into the ground, rather than into foul drainage. It has 
explained that usually these pipes would connect directly to the main drainage so the waste 
water could be carried away. It says where the water has been going into the ground, this 
has become saturated which caused the rising water. 
Based on this I think Admiral have proved that the exclusion for faulty design applies. The 
expert has explained that the cause of the problem is how the pipes were positioned and this 
is a fault with the design and installation.
However Mrs P has also provided evidence that she says shows Admirals expert didnt 
carry out thorough enough investigations and therefore came to the wrong conclusion. So 
Ive considered what shes provided to decide if this shows the exclusion has been unfairly 
applied. 
First, she has provided an image of the drainage pipe, which is in the vicinity of where the 
problem originated. Having looked at the image, and considered Admirals comments on it, it 
isnt enough to persuade me that Admirals experts conclusion was incorrect. The image 
shows a drainage pipe, but it doesnt show that the outlets from the sink and washing 
machine were connected to this pipe. Admiral hasnt said that a drainage pipe didnt exist, 
just that the pipes from the appliances werent connected to it, to allow water to drain 
correctly. So I dont think this photo shows that Admirals report is incorrect or that the 
exclusion wouldnt apply.
Mrs P has also said that she has now had the required repairs completed. She says that the 
drainage expert she used confirmed that the main drain was blocked and the pipework to the 
drain needed to be replaced. She says this shows that Admiral incorrectly diagnosed the 
problem. 
Mrs P hasnt provided a report or comments directly from the expert who carried out the 
repair. She has just passed on comments that were made at the time of the repair. Whereas 
Admiral has provided a report from an expert. As we rely on the opinions of experts, I would 
generally be more persuaded by a written expert report. However Ive considered what she has said. In Admirals experts report, it said that the 
pipes from the washing machine and sink drained into the ground. And the comments 
passed on from Mrs Ps expert dont confirm that this wasnt the case. While the drain may 
have been blocked, this doesnt mean that the pipes were correctly connected to the drain. 
And Ive seen nothing to show a blocked drain was the cause of the rising water and 
damage to her conservatory, rather than the pipes draining into the earth. 
For these reasons Im satisfied that Admiral has done enough to prove the faulty design 
exclusion fairly applies in this case. So I wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman