DRN-2493978
The complaint
Mr O complains that when servicing his boiler, British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) damaged 
it and it took eight weeks to repair it, during which time he was without heating and hot 
water.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision in this case. In response to it I received further 
information from BG and Mr O which Ive taken into account in reaching my final decision.
What happened
The facts behind this complaint are known to both parties so I wont repeat them. 
The only point in contention is the extent to which Mr O was without heating and hot water. 
Mr O says it took BG eight weeks to repair the boiler that its engineer had damaged. During 
this time the electrical supply kept tripping when heating or hot water was called for. He says 
hed then have to contact BG again and it would be three to four days before another 
engineer visited. 
BG said that the problem with Mr Os boiler wasnt resolved for six weeks and was only 
intermittent, so he wasnt permanently without heating and hot water. It offered him an initial 
£100 compensation which it then increased by a further £150. 
Our investigators view was that BG should pay Mr O total compensation of £350. Mr O 
thinks this is inadequate to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he suffered 
during this period. As he wasnt satisfied with our investigators view of his complaint, he 
asked that it be referred to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Os complaint and said I was considering 
requiring BG to pay compensation of £500. BG provided a response to this with further 
information. Mr O has commented on BGs response. Having taken this further information 
into account, Im now issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im continuing to uphold Mr Os complaint, but Im reducing the compensation I require BG to 
pay him, and Ill explain my reasons for doing this.
Mr O claimed that when undertaking an annual service of his boiler on 16 August 2019, BG 
caused damage, and that for a period of eight weeks following this he was without heating 
and hot water as his heating system kept tripping. Mr O was 76 years old at the time and has 
a significant health condition. He says he had to go to shower every day at a friends house 
and had to leave his dog with others so it wasnt in the way when an engineer came. He 
spent much of this time in cafes for warmth.
Im satisfied that being without heating and hot water had an impact on Mr O which was 
greater than the impact that it mightve had on others. Our awards are not intended to punish 
a business but are to take into account the impact on the individual customer.
In my provisional decision I stated that I considered it relevant that it was BG who was 
responsible for the damage to Mr Os boiler, and that there was a delay of some 37 days on 
its part in repairing it permanently. Mr O had said that there were gaps of three to four days 
between each visit after he phoned BG to say that the previous repair hadnt been 
successful, and the boiler was still tripping.
In response to my provisional decision, BG provided a detailed record of the attendances 
made by its engineers to Mr O between 16 August 2019 and 23 September 2019 which is 
supported by BGs records, which Ive seen. This showed that over this period there were 
significant periods between a repair being done, and the next report of another problem.
For example, a repair was completed on 20 August and Mr O didnt contact BG again to 
report another fault until 2 September (13 days). There was a similar gap between 7 
September and 16 September (10 days). If Mr Os boiler wasnt working properly during 
these periods, this hadnt been reported to BG.
BGs records also show that on the majority of the occasions when Mr O called to make an 
appointment, an engineer attended the same day or the following day. Only between 17 and 
23 September was there a gap of six days which was due to a part needing to be ordered, 
and then for it to be delivered and then fitted. 
Based on the information I now have, I consider that Mr O encountered problems with his 
boiler over 18 days rather than the 37 I based my provisional decision on. I also consider 
that on each occasion BG attended within a reasonable time to undertake the necessary 
repairs. It was also able to accommodate visits around hospital appointments that Mr O had.
As the original problem flowed from a leak caused by BGs engineer when undertaking the 
annual service, I think its reasonable that BG pays compensation to Mr O for the undoubted 
inconvenience and upset the repeated breakdowns caused him. Apart from the 
inconvenience of having to go to the homes of other to shower, and to sit in cafes to keep 
warm, he also had the inconvenience of having to make repeated calls to BG when a repair 
didnt fix the problem and to be in attendance each time an engineer visited. Eight engineer 
visits were required before the problem that was causing Mr Os boiler to trip was finally 
rectified.
If Mr O was without heating and hot water for longer than the 18 days accepted by BG, I 
dont consider it would be reasonable to hold it responsible for this as it could only respond 
to a problem if Mr O reported it. The lack of any calls from Mr O to BG between 20 August 
and 2 September, and between 7 September and 16 September would suggest that during 
these periods Mr O wasnt experiencing any problems with accessing heating and hot water.
BG offered Mr O an additional £150 in addition to the £100 its already paid him. I consider 
total compensation of £350 would be more appropriate given Mr Os particular circumstances.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Os complaint, and I require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay him compensation of £350 less any sum its already paid him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman