DRN-3228511
The complaint
Mr W complains about an excess mileage charge when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) was voluntary terminated. 
What happened
In February 2015, Mr W entered into a hire purchase agreement with MBFS to acquire a 
new vehicle. Mr W collected his vehicle from the dealership on 1 March 2015.
The total repayable under the agreement was £42,102.72. Mr W was required to make 48 
monthly payments of £518.39 (after factoring in the initial deposit and purchase activation 
fee) and there was a final optional payment of £16,125 if he wished to buy the vehicle at the 
end of the agreement. The agreement entitled Mr W to terminate the agreement at any time 
before the final payment was due. If Mr W exercised this option, the agreement set out that 
MBFS would be entitled to the return of the vehicle and at least half of the total repayable 
under the agreement. This was £21,051.36.
As part of the agreement, Mr W had an annual mileage allowance of 10,000. It said that in 
certain circumstances, if he exceeded this allowance, MBFS could charge him 9 pence (plus 
VAT) for every mile that he exceeded the allowance by.
Mr W has said in total, his vehicle was taken to a dealership for repairs 16 times. He has 
mentioned a number of issues he says occurred. In July 2015, Mr W s vehicle was recalled 
by the manufacturer. Mr W took it to a dealership to have a sealing ring replaced on the 
chain tensioner and one of the vehicle doors had a new light fitted. The telematics system 
was also updated. In April 2016, the vehicle was recalled to complete repair works to an air 
suspension fault. Mr W says further issues took place after this.
Unhappy with these issues, in May 2018, Mr W chose to exercise his right to terminate the 
agreement early. MBFS later charged Mr W £3,620.70 as he had exceeded the mileage 
allowance on the agreement. This was in addition to half of the total repayable under the 
agreement.
Mr W disputed the charges for exceeding the mileage allowance. In summary, he has stated:
If the vehicle supplied to him was of satisfactory quality, he wouldnt have needed to 
voluntary terminate his agreement, he would have purchased it instead. And he 
wouldnt have been required to pay any excess mileage charges.
Section 100 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA), restricted his liability to one half of the 
total price payable under the agreement with MBFS. Under his agreement, this equals 
£21,051.36. And as hed already paid this amount in monthly repayments, MBFS is not 
able to require him to pay any more.
MBFS rejected Mr Ws complaint as it was satisfied that the charges had been raised
correctly. And it said it accepted the performance of the vehicle wasnt up to standard, but it 
said on rare occasions a vehicle could develop a small fault which it would rectify as soon as 
possible. Unhappy with this response, Mr W referred his complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 November 2021, in which I said the following:
Was the vehicle provided to Mr W of satisfactory quality?
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. So our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. MBFS is the supplier of the goods under this type 
of agreement and so is responsible for dealing with a complaint about its quality.
The Supply of Goods (Implied Terms) Act 1973 applies to this agreement. Under a hire 
purchase agreement, there are implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality. In Mr Ws case, the vehicle he acquired was brand new  so 
expectations were that a reasonable person would consider it could be used  free from 
defects  for a considerable period of time.
As part of his complaint, Mr W has listed a number of different occasions when he says the 
vehicle supplied to him had an issue with it. MBFS has accepted the vehicle was recalled on 
two occasions by the manufacturer  once in July 2015 and once in April 2016. And Mr W 
has explained he had a further suspension failure after the repair under the recall was 
completed in July 2015. Hes also detailed that he was inconvenienced by the second recall 
as he had to visit a dealership three times due to parts not being in stock. However, Mr W 
hasnt provided any supporting evidence to confirm whether any faults were identified, what 
repairs were carried out, and what the cost of these repairs was.
I think the recalls support that the vehicle Mr W was supplied with, was likely to be of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. But I need to consider whether I think the 
actions taken to rectify the faults were fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Having 
done so, I think they were.
I say this because when the first recall MBFS has accepted took place, Mr W was entitled to 
either a repair, a replacement or a rejection of the vehicle. It appears Mr W accepted a 
repair. And when the second recall took place, Mr W again accepted a repair. I think a repair 
on both occasions was proportionate given the faults that occurred. And as no further 
supporting evidence has been provided to show either of the repairs wasnt successful, I 
cant say the vehicle remained defective at the point Mr W agreed to voluntary terminate it.
Overall, whilst I think the vehicle did have some faults which made it of unsatisfactory 
quality, Mr W accepted repairs to rectify these faults. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and dont consider the issues experienced with the vehicle sufficiently caused 
Mr W to have no choice but to voluntary terminate the agreement.
Whilst Mr Ws overall complaint appears to be about the quality of the vehicle supplied to 
him, it appears a complaint was made to MBFS about whether it could charge the excess 
mileage charge it imposed after the vehicle was returned, as MBFS addressed this 
complaint. Ive considered this argument in more detail below.
Considerations under the CCA
Having looked at Mr Ws hire purchase agreement, I can see that clause 12 states an 
excess mileage charge will be charged if Mr W exceeds the agreed amount of mileage. But, 
I have also considered Section 173 of the CCA which makes a contractual term void if it is 
inconsistent with the protections as set out in the CCA (or regulations made under it).Ive considered Sections 99 and 100 of the CCA. These set out the rights consumers have to 
voluntary terminate their hire purchase agreements and the liability that is due on 
termination. I consider these relevant to determine what is fair and reasonable here.
Section 99 of the CCA refers to a consumers right to terminate a hire purchase or
conditional sale agreement by giving notice. It states:
99 Right to terminate hire-purchase etc. agreements.
(1) At any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire-purchase or 
regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall be entitled to 
terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or authorised to 
receive the sums payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability under 
the agreement which has accrued before the termination
Section 100 of the CCA sets out the consumers liability on termination:
100 Liability of debtor on termination of hire-purchase etc. agreement.
(1) Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement is 
terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the agreement provides 
for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any payment, to pay to the creditor the 
amount (if any) by which one-half of the total price exceeds the aggregate of the 
sums paid and the sums due in respect of the total price immediately before the 
termination
(2) If in any action the court is satisfied that a sum less than the amount specified in 
subsection (1) would be equal to the loss sustained by the creditor in consequence of 
the termination of the agreement by the debtor, the court may make an order for the 
payment of that sum in lieu of the amount specified in subsection (1).
(3) If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the goods or 
land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased by the sum 
required to recompense the creditor for that contravention
In the TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS section of Mr Ws hire purchase agreement on 
page two, it refers to the amount that is due on termination and in his case, that was
£21,051.36. I note that other sections of the agreement Mr W had with MBFS also referred 
to the liability on voluntary termination, including where excess mileage, damage charges or 
other charges may increase the final liability.
Whether or not it is fair for a lender to apply the charge will depend on the terms of the 
agreement that has been entered into. I have to decide whether the agreement has been 
constructed in a way to allow the charging for excess mileage, without contravening what is 
set out in the CCA regarding voluntary termination. In Mr Ws case, I dont think it has. Ill 
explain why.
Section 99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to termination are not affected by 
the termination. What this means is that Mr W is liable to pay any charges which have built 
up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these charges are in addition to the 
other liability for early termination. So if the liability for excess mileage charges has accrued 
prior to termination, it is not incompatible with what is permitted under section 99. Ive 
considered Mr Ws agreement to determine whether such liability has accrued prior to 
termination.The first page of Mr Ws hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Default Charges. 
This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will apply if that mileage is 
exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early, the mileage allowance will be 
pro-rated to the reduced period of time and that, If you do not exercise your right to 
purchase the vehicle (including if the agreement terminates early for any reason), an excess 
distance charge will be payable. This then refers to clause 12 in a separate part of the 
agreement which says:
12 Excess Distance
(12.1) If the Vehicle is returned to us (whether at the end of the period of hire or on 
earlier termination for any reason, including voluntary termination by you), we will 
calculate the total distance travelled by the Vehicle whilst in your possession (the 
Total Distance).
(12.2) You will pay us a charge at the rate stated in this Agreement if and to the 
extent that the Total Distance exceeds the allowed distance for the Vehicle 
(calculated using the Annual Distance stated in this Agreement for each year or 
part of year between the Start Date and the date of return).
(12.3) You shall immediately notify us of an odometer (the meter that measures how 
far the Vehicle has travelled) failure and we shall be entitled to estimate the 
distance covered by the Vehicle for the period during which an odometer shall 
have appeared to have failed or to have been interfered with.
Having read the terms of Mr Ws agreement, I am not satisfied the liability for excess 
mileage charges accrue prior to the termination. From the wording above, it appears that a 
charge for excess mileage will only be raised once the agreement has been terminated and 
the option to purchase the vehicle hasnt been taken. The wording of clause 12.1 of the 
finance agreement reinforces this and states that MBFS will only calculate the excess 
mileage, if the vehicle is returned to us. In this case, I think a reasonable interpretation of 
the contract is that a charge for excess mileage will only be imposed, once the agreement 
has been terminated and the option to purchase the vehicle has not been taken. So it follows 
that liability couldnt have accrued before this point. 
Overall, I think my interpretation of how the charges are set out in the agreement is 
reasonable. So I consider the charges arising out of Mr Ws contract are inconsistent with 
what is allowed under section 99 of the CCA. 
I have also to take into consideration whether the excess mileage charge is permitted under 
section 100 of the CCA.
Section 100(1) of the CCA sets out the consumers liability on termination. It allows MBFS to 
charge Mr W one half of the total price. If Mr W has already paid this in monthly 
repayments, under certain circumstances he would not have to pay anything more. But if 
Mr W had failed to take reasonable care of the vehicle, there is an exception to this. If this 
had happened, under section 100(4) of the CCA, MBFS would be entitled to increase the 
amount owed by Mr W under section 100(1) of the CCA to compensate for this.
Section 189 of the CCA defines total price as the total amount payable by Mr W under the 
hire purchase agreement, including any option to purchase charge. But, it excludes any sum 
that might be payable as compensation for a breach of the agreement. 
Ive thought about whether the excess mileage charges make up an additional part of the 
price of hire. And so, whether theyre allowed to be charged as part of the total price under 
section 100(1) of the CCA. But Im not satisfied they are. Ive looked at the terminology of the 
agreement and can see it lists the excess mileage, amongst others, under Default Charges and clause 12.2 refers to the maximum mileage as the allowed distance for the vehicle. 
Instead, I consider exceeding the mileage a breach of the agreement and so it cant give rise 
to a charge that comes within the total price and is charged for under the calculation required 
by section 100(1) of the CCA.
Ive mentioned the exception that applies under section 100(4) of the CCA, if Mr W had 
failed to take reasonable care of the vehicle and this exception allowing MBFS to increase 
the liability owed under section 100(1) of the CCA to compensate for the breach. But, having 
reviewed the documentation Mr W received, I dont think exceeding the mileage set out in 
the agreement, would count as failure to take reasonable care of the vehicle. 
Under the agreement, paying for repairs is a separate requirement to that of keeping within 
the mileage allowance. Mr W would only need to make repairs to the vehicle if he hadnt kept 
it in good cosmetic/technical condition in accordance with what the contract states. But the 
application of an excess mileage charge isnt dependent on whether the vehicle matches the 
return standards, but whether or not Mr W had gone over the mileage limit. I think its clear 
from the agreement these are separate charges triggered by different things. 
Having considered the documentation Mr W was provided, Im not satisfied that driving more 
miles than the contract allowed should be treated as Mr W failing to take reasonable care of 
the vehicle.
So while I am satisfied that clause 12 of the agreement does make provision for a charge 
following early voluntary termination of the agreement, if the maximum mileage allowance is 
exceeded  I dont think that the term is consistent with the protections of the CCA in respect 
of voluntary termination. So, I think that this term is void under section 173 of the CCA as it 
extends excess mileage charges to early voluntary termination. As a result of this, I dont 
think MBFS can rely on clause 12 to make Mr W liable for more than the £21,051.36 he has 
already paid. So, I consider the excess mileage charge has been wrongly imposed and its 
not fair and reasonable that Mr W should be required to pay it. 
The clarity of the contract 
In addition to Mr Ws agreement and the CCA, Ive also considered the rules set out in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook.
Mr W told this service he wouldnt have needed to pay an excess mileage charge had he 
been provided with a vehicle which was of satisfactory quality. So he didnt think he should 
pay more than half the total amount payable, in this case £21,051.36, in the event of 
voluntary termination, as long as he had taken reasonable care of the goods. From this, I 
take it that Mr W wasnt clear about the application of an excess mileage charge in the event 
of his voluntary termination of the agreement. 
Even if I was mistaken in my interpretation of the points above regarding when excess 
mileage charges begin to accrue and what is chargeable as a failure to take reasonable care 
of the vehicle, I also consider that an underlying lack of clarity in the contract about the cost 
of ending the agreement early, is an important consideration as to whether it is fair and 
reasonable to impose an excess mileage charge, in the particular circumstances. In 
considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive considered the relevant provisions of the FCAs 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) including:
CONC 2.3.2
A firm must explain the key features of a regulated credit agreement to enable the customer 
to make an informed choice as required by CONC 4.2.5 R (adequate explanations).CONC 4.2.5
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must:
(a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation of the matters referred to in 
(2) in order to place the customer in a position to assess whether the agreement is 
adapted to the customers needs and financial situation; ...
(2) The matters referred to in (1) (a) are:
(a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided under 
the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
(b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can 
be determined, in total under the agreement;
(c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would have 
a significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer is unlikely 
to foresee.
And Ive also considered that principle seven of the FCA Principles for Businesses states 
that, A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Thinking about the clarity of the information Mr W was given about the agreement he was 
entering into, Ive based my findings on the limited documentation Ive been provided, 
namely the agreement. Mr W was provided with a copy of the agreement and should have 
considered the information in it. I can also see the agreement references that Mr W was 
given an opportunity to read a separate sheet headed PRE CONTRACT INFORMATION. 
But I havent seen a copy of this and MBFS dont appear to have sent Mr W a copy of this. 
So its unclear what this said and whether Mr W relied on this, given he is likely to have only 
read this briefly and he wasnt provided with a copy of it.
I can see the agreement has a section headed TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS. This 
section contains specific wording which MBFS was required to include in the agreement, and 
in summary sets out that so long as Mr W has paid at least half the total amount payable 
under the agreement, he wouldnt have to pay any more. Ive thought about this explanation 
in light of the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for 
exceeding the mileage.
Clause 12 of Mr Ws agreement refers to the calculation of an excess distance charge in 
circumstances where the vehicle is returned  including early termination. I accept that when 
taken in isolation, this term appears to entitle MBFS to charge for excess mileage where the 
option to voluntary terminate is exercised. But, when taken in context of the agreement as a 
whole, there is a lack of clarity in respect of a customer choosing to terminate the agreement 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of the CCA and the section TERMINATION: 
YOUR RIGHTS. This section says that nothing further would be payable if Mr W has paid at 
least £21,051.36 and taken reasonable care of the vehicle. Therefore, clause 12 contradicts 
this section of the agreement and the relevant provisions set out in the CCA. So I dont think 
the agreement is clear when it explains what Mr W will be charged, should he choose to 
exercise his right to voluntary terminate the agreement.
A further example of where I think the contract lacks clarity around this point is set out in 
clause eight of the agreement headed, Early Termination by you. This clause doesnt 
specifically set out charges for excess mileage due if a customer terminates the agreement 
early and returns the vehicle. Instead, it only makes direct reference to a clause relating to 
additional charges regarding the condition of the vehicle. This is particularly unhelpful 
considering that: Clause eight appears to be an itemisation of what the customer needs to do and pay 
when terminating early. I note that Clause eight (i) re-iterates that the customer must 
comply with the terms of the statutory notice, one of which states that the customer 
wont pay more than £21,051.36. 
Clause 12 isnt well signposted in respect of early termination, and only appears to 
be cross referenced in relation to an earlier section headed Default Charges.
I also note that the right to early terminate the agreement and the maximum overall liability 
for this is clearly displayed on page two of the agreement in a bold box. Yet any terms (in 
respect of excess mileage) that might qualify or negate the liability on early termination arent 
given similar prominence and I dont think theyre clear or compelling. Clause 12 features in 
particularly small print on page five and isnt signposted in a way that would have naturally 
drawn Mr W to it in respect of an intention to return the vehicle early.
The lack of clarity within the terms of the agreement about excess mileage charges on 
voluntary termination, could result in a significant adverse effect on Mr W in a way he was 
unlikely to foresee. Looking at the agreement as a whole, I dont think Mr W was adequately 
informed that an excess mileage charge would increase his liability beyond the £21,051.36 
payable on voluntary termination of his agreement. So I am not satisfied that MBFS has met 
its obligations under CONC 2.3.2 and CONC 4.2.5 respectfully.
As I dont agree the agreement was clear, fair and not misleading, I also find that MBFS has 
breached principle seven of the FCA Principles for Businesses. So, overall I dont think its 
fair and reasonable for MBFS to impose an excess mileage charge in these particular 
circumstances.
I appreciate that regardless of the lack of clarity, Mr W may have taken this agreement out 
anyway, given he said he wanted to purchase it at the end, had it been of satisfactory 
quality. But had he known that an excess mileage charge would have been applicable upon 
voluntary termination, he may have adjusted his use of the vehicle or changed the date of 
the termination to avoid or minimise such charges.
All things considered, I think the lack of clarity in the contract is likely to have caused Mr W a 
detriment financially.
Overall, Im not satisfied that Mr W should be liable to pay the excess mileage charge. This 
is because I consider that the excess mileage charge as specified in the contract here, is 
inconsistent with what is allowed to be charged under the CCA. And even if Im mistaken 
about that, I think the agreement lacks clarity as to how the early termination fee is qualified 
by additional charges relating to excess mileage. Because of this, Im not satisfied that 
MBFS has met the requirements under the FCA Principles for Businesses and CONC. And I 
consider that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to charge for excess mileage in these 
particular circumstances.
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint. I am minded to order Mercedes-Benz
Financial Services UK Limited to:
Remove the charge of £3,620.70 from Mr Ws account. If this amount has since been 
paid by Mr W, MBFS should refund the amount and add interest to the refunded sum 
at the rate of 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.If any adverse information has been recorded with credit reference agencies, in 
relation to the period where the excess mileage charges werent paid, this should 
now be removed.
If MBFS considers it should deduct tax from the interest part of my award it should provide 
Mr W with a tax deduction certificate so that he may claim this back from HMRC if 
applicable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new evidence has been provided for me to consider following my provisional decision, 
it follows that there is no reason for me to reach any different conclusion than set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons given in my provisional decision which I have outlined above, MBFS should:
Remove the charge of £3,620.70 from Mr Ws account. If this amount has since been 
paid by Mr W, MBFS should refund the amount and add interest to the refunded sum 
at the rate of 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
If any adverse information has been recorded with credit reference agencies, in 
relation to the period where the excess mileage charges werent paid, this should 
now be removed.
If MBFS considers it should deduct tax from the interest part of my award, it should provide 
Mr W with a tax deduction certificate so that he may claim this back from HMRC if 
applicable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman