DRN-2922421
The complaint
Mrs Hs complaint relates to a lifetime mortgage she and the late Mr H took out in 2003 with 
Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. She is unhappy about the advice received and has said 
that she and Mr H didnt understand the implications of the mortgage for the future. Mrs H 
has said that had she known the position the mortgage would have been in by 2020, she 
and Mr H would never have taken out the mortgage.
Mrs H is represented in her complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H sought advice from their independent financial adviser (IFA) in 2003. This 
resulted in a lifetime mortgage of £39,600 being taken out with Aviva.
Mr and Mrs H complained to Aviva in June 2020. They chased the complaint in August 2020 
and when they didnt receive a response, referred it to this service the following month.
We notified Aviva that Mr and Mrs H had asked us to consider the complaint. Sadly, before 
the complaint was responded to, Mr H died. 
Avivas response to the complaint explained that the mortgage had been sold by an IFA and 
as such, it was not responsible for the advice that had been complained about.
One of our investigators looked at what was being complained about and who the complaint 
had been directed to.  He explained that as the advice being complained about was given by 
an IFA, Aviva wasnt responsible for the things complained about. He confirmed that in the 
circumstances where the advice was given by an IFA, Aviva was entitled to accept the 
application without providing further advice. 
Mrs Hs representative accepted that the advice wasnt given by Aviva, but questioned that it 
wasnt responsible for making sure that the IFA gave sound advice. He asked where Avivas 
checks and balances and its due governance of the process were.
The investigator confirmed that Aviva was allowed to rely on the information it was given by 
the IFA. As such, we were unable to consider the complaint against Aviva. Mrs Hs 
representative asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that this will disappoint Mrs H, but I can only find that Aviva isnt responsible for the 
advice shes unhappy with. At the time of the sale of the mortgage in question and today, if 
an IFA or independent mortgage broker provides advice, that business is responsible for 
whether the advice is suitable and any consequences if it is not. A lender was entitled to 
accept an application based on what it is told and the assumption that the IFA or broker has 
done its job correctly. As such, I cant consider this complaint further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I cant uphold this complaint against Aviva Equity Release UK 
Limited, as it is not responsible for the advice being complained about. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman