DRN-2630193
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund to him the money that he paid 
for a jacket.
What happened
Mr H used his Nationwide credit card in June 2020 to make a payment of £77.93 to a crowd 
funding platform and he says that the payment was made for him to receive a jacket from a 
supplier. He didnt receive the jacket so he contacted the supplier and the operator of the 
crowd funding platform but they didnt respond to him so he claimed a refund from 
Nationwide. 
It said that no contract was in place for the crowd funding platform to provide any goods or 
services to Mr H - which it said is what would need to be proven to raise a dispute with the 
card scheme. Mr H wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service but our 
investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld.
He said that the crowd funding platform doesnt function like a traditional business and he 
didn't agree that it had acted fraudulently or been responsible for any wrongdoing. He said 
that he couldnt see that any contract was in place for it to provide any goods or services to 
Mr H and he didnt consider that Nationwide was wrong to decline his chargeback claim. He 
also explained why Mr H didnt have a valid claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974.
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the 
crowd funding platform has taken money for an item from him (and other buyers - and 
continues to do so) but no goods have been received and this is a fraud. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
its clear from Mr Hs evidence that he considers that he paid £77.93 for a jacket but 
he didnt receive the jacket so should receive a refund;
I sympathise with Mr H for the disappointment and frustration that he feels because 
he hasnt received the jacket, but his payment was made to a crowd funding platform 
which operates in a different way to traditional providers of goods and services;
the crowd funding platform uses pledged funds to help businesses to bring creative 
projects to life and theres no guarantee that any product will be received  its terms 
and conditions say that it isnt a store and doesnt issue refunds;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the crowd funding 
platform has acted incorrectly or fraudulently;
nor am I persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mr H entered into a 
contract with the supplier for it to provide him with a jacket - and I consider that there 
was no basis on which Nationwide could make a chargeback claim for Mr Hs 
payment in these circumstances;
I dont consider that Nationwide has any liability to Mr H under section 75 for that 
payment and I consider that its response to his complaint has been fair and 
reasonable; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Nationwide to refund to 
Mr H the £77.93 that he paid to the crowd funding platform, to pay him any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman