DRN-4219522
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that NewDay Ltd, trading as Amazon Platinum Mastercard, enabled an 
unauthorised third-party to gain access to his account and with several aspects of the 
service he received from NewDay surrounding this matter.
What happened
On 28 January 2022, Mr B noticed that unauthorised transactions were taking place on his 
NewDay account. Mr B tried to contact NewDay, but the phone line was closed, so he 
followed the advice he found on NewDays website and voluntarily put a block on his 
account. However, when Mr B contacted NewDay the next morning he found that whoever 
was fraudulently accessing his account had managed to get NewDay to remove the block 
and had made further unauthorised transactions on his account. 
Mr B wasnt happy about what had happened, and felt that NewDay hadnt been helpful 
when hed contacted them about the issue and that this had greatly increased the amount of 
worry and trouble hed experienced trying to understand and resolve the matter  which he 
eventually learned had taken place because a NewDay agent had allowed an unknown third-
party to gain access to his account and change contact information without completing the 
requisite security checks on that third-party. So, he raised a complaint.
NewDay looked at Mr Bs complaint and acknowledged theyd made an error which had 
allowed the third-party to access Mr Bs account. NewDay apologised to Mr B for this and 
reimbursed the unauthorised transaction amounts to Mr Bs account so that Mr B didnt incur 
any financial detriment because of what happened. And NewDay also made a payment of 
£100 compensation to Mr B for the trouble and upset hed incurred, and later offered to pay 
a further £500 compensation to Mr B, increasing the total compensation payable to £600. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with NewDays response as he didnt feel the £600 compensation took 
sufficient account of the impact of what had happened. And Mr B was also unhappy that 
NewDay had allowed a data breach to occur on his account by allowing the third-party 
access to it, and that NewDay hadnt responded to a Data Subject Access Request 
(DSAR) hed made in a timely manner. So, he referred his complaint to this service.    
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They agreed that the £600 total 
compensation amount didnt take fair account of what had happened, and so they 
recommended that NewDay should increase the total amount of compensation by a further 
£200, to a total of £800. Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that NewDay have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr B has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr B for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr B notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr B and NewDay. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Where a business accepts that they made a mistake  as NewDay have here  it would be 
expected by this service that the business would take the action necessary to ensure that 
their customer doesnt incur any financial detriment because of that mistake.
Upon consideration, I think that NewDay have done that here. I say this because NewDay 
have reimbursed the unauthorised transaction amounts back to Mr Bs account and ensured 
that Mr B wasnt charged any interest on those amounts while they were present on his 
account. And Im satisfied that by taking these actions, NewDay have ensured that Mr B 
hasnt incurred any financial detriment on his account because of what happened. 
NewDay have also apologised to Mr B for what took place, and theyve accepted the view of 
this complaint put forwards by our investigator to pay an increased amount of £800 total 
compensation to Mr B.
Matter of compensation can be subjective, and Im aware that Mr B feels that a significantly 
higher amount of compensation is merited here. However, given the full circumstances of 
this complaint  including the time and effort Mr B had to expend trying to understand and 
resolve this matter, the trouble and upset Mr B experienced resulting from the breach of data 
that occurred because of the third-party accessing Mr Bs account, and the frustration and 
inconvenience incurred by Mr B because NewDay didnt respond to his DSAR request in a 
timely manner  I do feel that the £800 total compensation amount recommended by our 
investigator is a fair amount.
In arriving at this position, Ive considered the impact that these events have had on Mr B, as 
hes described them. And Ive also considered the general framework which this service 
uses when considering compensation amounts for distress and inconvenience  further 
details of which can be found on this services website. And upon review of all these factors, 
I feel that £800 is a fair total compensation amount.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but I must note that I dont feel that 
this services general approach to compensation awards for distress and inconvenience is in 
line with Mr Bs own expectations on this matter. And I remain confident that I have 
considered the full and combined impact of whats happened here to Mr B, and also that 
£800 is a fair award of compensation for that impact, given what Ive explained above. Finally, Im aware that Mr B is unhappy with how NewDay applied a Credit Industry Fraud 
Avoidance System (CIFAS) marker on his account, which Mr B feels was applied later than 
it should have been, and which caused him inconvenience when it was added. 
But Im satisfied that it was fair and appropriate for NewDay to have applied a CIFAS marker 
when they had satisfied themselves that fraud had occurred. And, as such, I dont feel that 
NewDay have acted unfairly by applying the CIFAS marker when they did, and I also feel 
that any inconvenience Mr B experienced because of that CIFAS marker was unfortunately a 
necessary inconvenience resulting as a consequence of it being reasonably applied.
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Bs favour, Ill only be 
doing so on the basis that NewDay must pay a further £700 to Mr B  in addition to the £100 
that theyve already paid  taking the total amount of compensation payable to Mr B to £800.
I hope that Mr B will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
Putting things right
NewDay must make a payment of £700 to Mr B.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman