DRN-4328659
The complaint
X has complained that Unum Ltd declined a critical illness claim made under their 
employers group policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full here. In summary Unum declined Xs claim because the medical evidence didnt show 
they met the policy definition for cancer.
Our investigator didnt conclude that Unum had done anything wrong. X appealed.
As no agree ment has been reached the matte r has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Im sorry to note that X has been unwell. In November 2022 a biopsy showed a  lesion 
was suspicious of lymphoma. In February 2023 a pathologist couldnt be  definitive 
about a diagnosis of lymphoma. The recommendation at the time was to  keep X 
under surveillance.
The relevant regulations say that insurers mustnt unreasonably reject 
a claim, so Ive 
carefully considered their policy in order to determine if they have been treated fairly.  
The relevant part of the cancer policy definition states:
Cancer  excluding less advanced cases
Any malignant tumour positively diagnosed with histological confirmation and  
characterised by the uncontrolled growth of malignant cells and invasion of tissue.  
The term malignant tumour includes leukaemia, sarcoma and lymphoma except  
cutaneous lymphoma (lymphoma confined to the skin).
Here, without a definitive histological diagnosis of cancer the policy definition was not  
met when Unum issued its final response. It follows that I cant say Unum treated X 
unfairly or contrary to their policy terms in declining their claim when it did.
Reading the difficulties X had with Unums portal I do understand their frustration. We 
are unable to tell insurers how to operate, as thats not part of our function. I can see 
that ultimately X requested letters to be received by post, which seems a  sensible 
alternative.
I recognise that X will be disappointed by my decision, but for the reasons given  
above I dont find that Unum treated them unfairly or contrary to their policy terms in 
declining their claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Unum Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman