DRN-2159087
The complaint
Mr A complains about the service provided by ReAssure Limited in relation to his personal 
pension.
What happened
Mr As complaint concerns ReAssures decision to review the funds it offers and the service 
he received in relation to this. His ReAssure pension drawdown plan (Retirement Account), 
is invested in four mainly international funds, and hes entitled to 20 free switches a year. 
Following a review by ReAssure of the funds it offered, Mr A wasnt happy with the 
alternative funds he was switched into. In particular he didnt agree with the replacement of 
Fund A with Fund F, and that the decision had been taken without consultation. And he 
felt hed been provided with poor service when he tried to sort things out. To resolve matters 
he wanted clarification of which funds were available, to switch to his own choice of funds, a 
statement showing his holdings and better service going forward.
ReAssures final response dated 3 December 2019 apologised for two mistakes  omitting 
his holding in Fund M which undervalued his holdings by £4,000, and for the way a call 
was handled. It provided details of the missing holding and said it had credited his account 
with compensation of £100. 
provisional decision
In my provisional decision on 1 September I said ReAssure was entitled to periodically 
review the funds it offered for Mr A to invest in. I also said there were some servicing issues 
with Mr A being provided with incorrect or unclear information on several occasions and 
being told hed failed telephone security when hed passed. I thought some problems arose 
from both the servicing and complaints team communicating with Mr A at different times and 
without coordinating their responses. But communication is complicated by Mr A being 
resident in Europe so hes unable to easily telephone, and post between him and ReAssure 
takes longer even when he uses a signed for service. 
In addition to the two errors addressed in ReAssures final response letter, Mr A experienced 
further problems trying to establish which funds were available to invest in, He was given a 
list which included funds which were due to be withdrawn. He was confused by ReAssures 
letters which he thought meant the withdrawn funds would all be closed and replaced 
straight after 28 November 2019, when actually this would be happening over time from 28 
November onwards. I said ReAssures communications could have been clearer. 
But I also said Mr A had confused matters by giving what appeared to be conflicting switch 
instructions. On 24 December 2019 he asked if his holding could be split equally across his 
three remaining funds (which included Fund M). But in his letter of 2 January 2020 which 
enclosed a fund switch form signed 24 December 2019 he asked to switch his entire holding 
in Fund A to Fund M. And both of these instructions failed to appreciate that Fund M was 
also set to close to be replaced by Fund H. Mr A has clarified he didnt intend to give 
conflicting instructions  the signed form was his instruction - the letter was just a question 
asking if this was possible. Mr A is of course entitled to ask questions, but I could see why 
ReAssure wasnt sure of Mr As intentions, which delayed the switch taking place. 
To put things right, ReAssure wrote to Mr A on 6 August 2020 to say if he provided his clear 
fund switch instructions within 28 days of that letter, the switch would be backdated to 19 
August 2019. In my provisional decision I said this offer was fair, and that ReAssure should 
pay Mr A compensation of an additional £100 to reflect the additional inconvenience caused 
by issues in addition to the two it had mentioned in its final response letter.
Responses to the provisional decision
ReAssure accepted the provisional decision but Mr A raised some queries. He thought the 
£100 compensation had only been offered not paid in December 2019 so requested details 
of which account had been credited. He asked for a statement as he still wasnt clear which 
funds hes invested in, and Fund A is still showing as available even though its supposed to 
have been withdrawn. He confirmed hed replied to ReAssures letter of 6 August with his 
switch instructions.
In response to these comments ReAssure provided the account number credited in 
December 2019 which they said was Mr As but they hadnt yet received his switch 
instructions. Mr A reiterated he had sent his instructions by signed for post and had a 
receipt. And he didnt recognise the account number. 
ReAssure admitted the number was actually their own account with a correspondent bank. 
But they confirmed £100 had been paid in December 2019 following the process used for  
Mr As drawdown payments, which theyd no reason to think hadnt reached him. So if Mr A 
maintains he didnt receive £100 in December 2019 ReAssure asked Mr A to provide his 
bank statement for the period in question to enable them to investigate further. 
So the case has been returned to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as my provisional decision.
I appreciate Mr As concern about not knowing how his funds are invested and having the 
decisions about the replacements for withdrawn funds being taken out of his hands. 
Although I accept ReAssure does this with the intention of minimising inconvenience for its 
customers. 
I also see why the wording of ReAssures letter led Mr A to believe the funds earmarked for 
closure would be withdrawn imminently rather than as part of a phased programme. And it 
was no doubt frustrating to be given information which was inaccurate, with funds hed been 
told were withdrawn continuing to be shown in the list of available funds. 
But I think ReAssures revised offer to backdate Mr As confirmed fund switches to 19 
August 2019 if he provided his instructions within 28 days of their letter of 6 August 2020 
was fair. I leave it to Mr A to liaise with ReAssure about his instructions, as so far its not 
clear theyve been received. 
Mr A has also requested a statement, so ReAssure should provide a clear and accurate 
statement of his holdings as soon as possible. And it should ensure its lists of available 
funds is accurate as far as possible.Finally ReAssure should pay Mr A a total of £200. So if it cannot be shown that ReAssure 
paid £100 to a valid account of Mr As in December 2019 it should pay him £200. If the £100 
was already paid then only the remaining £100 should be paid. 
our text here
Putting things right
So long as Mr A provided his instructions within 28 days of ReAssures letter of 6 August 
2020, ReAssure Limited should carry out Mr As fund switches backdated to 19 August 2019 
in line with its revised offer.
And it should pay Mr A a total of £200, deducting £100 if it was paid to Mr A in December 
2019, for the trouble and upset he experienced. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman