DRN-2926146
The complaint
Mr J complained his motor policy was unfairly cancelled by Tesco Underwriting Limited 
(Tesco).  
What happened
Mr J was insured on his policy with Tesco for social and domestic purposes, as well as for 
commuting to work. Sometime after hed arranged his policy, he secured a second part-time 
job working a few hours a week for a food delivery business. Following the advice of his new 
employer, Mr J took out a separate policy with another company (Z) who covered him 
whilst he used his car for the second job.
Mr J had an accident while working in his part-time job delivering food. He informed both 
insurers of the accident, as he knew this was an important requirement of his policies.
When Tesco became aware that Mr J was using his car for work purposes in a second job it 
decided to cancel his policy, as it said Mr J had breached the terms of his policy. It also said 
this activity fell outside of its underwriting criteria.
Mr J was unhappy as he didnt think he needed to inform Tesco of the second job, as hed 
secured specific additional insurance just for that activity. He didnt think hed done anything 
wrong. Because of the cancellation of his policy with Tesco, Mr J said the cost of his future 
premiums had increased significantly. Tesco also asked him to pay the remainder of his 
premiums in line with the terms of his policy, as Z initially hadnt confirmed it was covering 
the claim. However, Z has now accepted it will meet all the third-party costs from the 
accident.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think Tesco had reached a fair and 
reasonable outcome. She thought there was clear evidence that Mr J didnt intentionally fail 
to disclose information to Tesco. So, she didnt think it was fair his policy was cancelled, and 
she thought his premiums should be refunded for the cancelled period. Tesco said the failure 
to disclose information was a breach of the policy and added additional risk that it wouldnt 
normally underwrite, so it has asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 9th June 2021. I said:
Tesco said When you [Mr J] purchased the policy online, you failed to disclose a second 
job as a delivery driver. If you had disclosed this, we wouldn't have offered him cover. 
Therefore, when you made us aware of this, as per our terms and conditions, we cancelled 
the policy. I can see Tesco considered Mr Js failure to disclose information as a breach to 
the terms and conditions of the policy as opposed to a misrepresentation at renewal. It has 
confirmed it has done this to provide Mr J with a better outcome. Tesco cancelled Mr Js 
policy, whereas a misrepresentation could lead to a voided policy which it feels wouldve 
made it harder and more expensive for Mr J to acquire cover in the future. 
The terms and conditions Tesco has referred to are relevant to mid-term changes in 
circumstances. There wasnt a mid-term change in Mr Js circumstances. Instead he had 
started the part- time role before the policy began. So essentially the issue is one of 
misrepresentation. The remedies available to Tesco for misrepresentation are set out in 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). So for me to 
understand if Tesco has been reasonable in cancelling Mr Js policy (rather than avoiding it), 
I need to consider if the remedy of avoidance was fairly available to Tesco under CIDRA. If it 
wasnt then its decision to cancel the policy wouldnt provide a better outcome for Mr J or be 
considered to have treated him fairly. 
When Mr J initially took out his policy with Tesco, he would have been asked various 
questions about himself and what cover he required. Tesco used the answers to these 
questions and information provided to weigh up the risk of insuring Mr J for driving his car. 
When he came to renew his policy, Mr J wouldve been required to confirm the information 
previously provided and held by Tesco was correct. 
In simple terms Tesco was trying to assess how likely it was that Mr J would make a claim. 
Tesco relied on the answers and the information it was given to be accurate. It can be a 
misrepresentation if an answer given is inaccurate or misleadingly incomplete. But Tesco will 
only be entitled to take action if its a qualifying misrepresentation in accordance with the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Was there a misrepresentation?
I have checked the renewal documents that were sent to Mr J and I can see they say 
please check all your documentation as these provide information on your cover and the 
details we hold about you. It is important you check your details are still correct, as 
inaccurate information could result in claims not being paid or your policy being voided. I 
think Tesco has reasonably set out the requirement to check the documents. The renewal 
documents showed Mr Js full-time job. But Mr J also had a part-time job. He says he didnt 
think he needed to disclose this information to Tesco. However, Mr J needed to make sure 
Tesco had all the information about him so it could fully assess the risk of providing him 
insurance cover. So, in failing to provide all his information to Tesco, hes made a 
misrepresentation. I need to consider if I think this was a qualifying misrepresentation. Mr J 
didnt tell Tesco he was using his car for a second job. Ive not decided if this was a 
misrepresentation because either way it wouldnt change the outcome of this complaint. 
Thats because I dont think Mr J failed to take reasonable care by not declaring his use of 
the car for his PT role. So it wouldnt be a qualifying misrepresentation anyway. Ive set out 
why below. 
Did the consumer take reasonable care?
The regulations set out in CIDRA state a consumer must take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation to an insurer. Tesco said that had it looked at the case under CIDRA, it 
wouldve concluded that Mr J hadnt taken reasonable care which would have led it to 
voiding his policy. 
Mr J said he didnt think he needed to declare his part-time job to Tesco as he didnt think it 
was relevant to the cover he took out with Tesco. Mr J said that after receiving advice from 
his part time employer, he took out separate cover with the sole purpose of providing him 
with insurance cover when he worked as a delivery driver. He was also careful of informing 
both insurers of his accident. I think if he felt he needed to declare his part-time job, he 
wouldve. I think he genuinely didnt think it was relevant to his cover with Tesco.
However, his renewal documents were clear that he needed to check the information Tesco had recorded about him. I have looked at the renewal documents and the information 
recorded shows Mr Js full-time occupation. As the record didnt indicate space for part-time 
roles or additional work, I dont think its unreasonable that Mr J didnt provide this 
information. I dont think it would have occurred to a reasonable consumer. I think 
considering the circumstances, Mr J did take reasonable care in respect to the part-time role.
Mr Js renewal documents also had recorded that the use required for his car was for 
social domestic and pleasure including commuting. The renewal documents explain that 
this use excludes use for any business purpose. Mr J was using his car for business use 
when he worked as a delivery driver. However, Mr J said when he took out his cover with 
Tesco, it was not to cover him for his work as a delivery driver. I am persuaded this is the 
case from what he has said. I think there is evidence that Mr J considered his insurance 
requirements separately for his social needs and his work needs and took out separate 
cover for each. I think hes genuine when he said he didnt realise he needed to declare his 
part-time job or that he was using his car for his part-time job. Therefore, as I think Mr J has 
shown reasonable care to provide the correct information. 
I accept there was a misrepresentation, but for it to be a qualifying misrepresentation it 
would need to be shown firstly that Mr J failed to take reasonable care. I have concluded 
there wasnt a qualifying misrepresentation, as I think Mr J did take reasonable care when 
renewing his policy. Therefore, I dont think there was a case, under CIDRA, for Tesco to 
void Mr Js policy anyway.
Tesco chose to cancel Mr Js policy, as it thought this was a more favourable outcome for 
him. However, as Mr J had not made a qualifying misrepresentation there was no remedy 
available to it under CIDRA. So, it couldnt have fairly avoided his policy. There was not a 
mid-term change in Mr Js circumstances, so it wasnt possible for him to have breached the 
terms and conditions, so I dont think Tescos decision to cancel Mr Js policy was fair.
So, whilst I understand Tesco tried to do the right thing by Mr J in not considering 
misrepresentation, I dont think it has come to a fair outcome for Mr J. I think Tesco 
shouldve continued to cover Mr J for the remainder of the policy year. Then, if it didnt want 
to provide Mr J with cover in future years, it could simply not have offered a further renewal.
Mr J has now bought alternative insurance cover, so I dont intend to ask Tesco to reinstate 
the policy. Instead I intend for Tesco to remove the cancellation marker from any internal or 
external databases and treat the policy as though Mr J had cancelled it. I also intend Tesco 
to provide written confirmation to Mr J that the cancellation of his policy was unfair. This will 
enable Mr J to provide this information to his existing insurer so any adjustment to his 
existing premiums can be made. I intend for Tesco to also waive any cancellation fees (if 
applicable).
Tesco were chasing Mr J for the outstanding premiums for his current policy, but Z has now 
assumed liability. Therefore, if it hasnt already, I intend Tesco to re-calculate the 
outstanding premium due on Mr Js motor policy, so that Mr J only pays a pro-rata premium 
for the time he was on risk, up until the date of cancellation of his insurance policy.
I think in these circumstances, Mr J will have suffered distress and inconvenience from 
having to seek out alternative cover, therefore, I also intend to award £100 compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr J accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.Tesco accepted my provisional decision.  However, it said we don't post our cancellations 
externally on databases and there was no cancellation fee charged. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to change it. I have 
noted Tescos comments and I dont think its necessary to change the redress. If Tesco 
havent added any cancellation markers, it wont need to change any records on databases, 
however, it will need to treat the policy as though Mr J had cancelled it. Also, if it hasnt 
charged a cancellation fee, there wont be a need to waive it.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to:
Remove the cancellation marker where possible from any internal or external 
databases and treat the policy as though Mr J had cancelled it.
Provide written confirmation to Mr J that the cancellation of his policy was unfair.
Waive any cancellation fees (if applicable).
Pay Mr J £100 compensation  distress and inconvenience of seeking alternative 
cover. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman