DRN-3341844
The complaint
Ms T complains about the actions of Barclays Bank UK PLC when she was the victim of a 
scam in which she sent money to one of its customers accounts.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in 
full here. 
Ms T says she messaged a known celebrity through his authenticated social media page 
asking if she could interview him for an academic paper she was writing. She was provided 
with contact details for his management company. Ms T contacted the management 
company. Between October 2020 and December 2020, Ms T was asked to make a 
reservation payment and several charitable donations. She transferred a total sum of £4,250 
across five payments from her bank  C to an account held with Barclays. Unbeknownst to 
Ms T shed fallen victim to an impersonation scam. 
When Ms T realised shed likely fallen victim to a scam she contacted C, who contacted 
Barclays, but no funds remained. Ms T was unhappy that Barclays had allowed one of its 
accounts to be used fraudulently. She asked that it refund her loss. Barclays issued its 
response after Ms T had referred her complaint to our service. In summary, it said her funds 
had been spent before it had the opportunity to recover them and that it was not liable for 
Ms Ts loss. Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be 
upheld. Ms T remained unhappy for a number of reasons and asked for an Ombudsman to 
reconsider her complaint.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate Ms T will be disappointed with 
this outcome, so Ill explain why.
Account opening
I note Ms Ts submissions assume that its more likely than not that the beneficiary account 
was opened using stolen documentation (obtained from victims of investment scams). I think 
it would be helpful to explain that whilst that might be one explanation of how an account in 
receipt of fraudulently obtained funds might have been opened its not the only one. Other 
explanations include fake documents; genuine and legitimately opened accounts, which are 
later down the line used to receive fraudulently obtained funds (complicitly or unwittingly). 
Irrespective of which one, my role here is to decide whether Barclays, when opening
the account into which Ms T transferred funds, (not any other accounts which may or may 
not have been opened) couldve reasonably identified that the account it was opening would 
later be utilised to misappropriate funds. 
Here, Barclays were provided with acceptable Know Your Customer (KYC) documentation. 
The identification document (passport) is recorded as being verified using Machine 
Readable Zone (MRZ) checks. So I'm satisfied that Barclays have (as per its regulatory 
and lawful obligations) obtained the correct documentation; verified this as far as reasonably 
possible; and carried out its due diligence at account opening. At the point of opening the 
account I dont think Barclays couldve reasonably known that the account it was opening 
would later be used to receive fraudulently obtained funds. So I cant conclude that it has 
acted unfairly or that its actions at the time of opening the account can fairly be considered 
to have led to Ms Ts loss.
Account operation
Firstly, taking into account the significant volume of transactions that take place daily, it 
simply wouldnt be practical for a bank to stop and check each and every one of those 
payments  especially if its not unusual in the context of the account activity. It has to strike 
a balance between monitoring accounts and preventing fraud without unduly hindering its 
customers general use of their account. Ultimately under its customer mandate a bank must 
allow its customers to spend or withdraw their money without unnecessary delay. And 
without a good basis it cant keep interfering in the day to day operation of its customers 
account.
Id like to also point out, that all accounts operate differentlyno two accounts are the same. 
There is no such thing as a generalised normal criterion when monitoring accounts. It is 
about each individual account and whether there was enough of a change in the activity on 
that account where it can reasonably be concluded that the change ought to have raised 
fraud concerns.
Barclays have shared statements for the account which received Ms Ts funds. I can confirm 
the account was not dormant. It was an operational account with regular credits and debits. 
Im satisfied here that neither the payments Ms T had sent to the account nor the spending 
of those funds was unusual for the account. Of course, I accept even where an account is 
established and operating normally there may be obvious triggers that would warrant an 
intervention, but I dont think the payments Ms T sent or the spending of those funds meets 
the threshold of being so remarkably unusual, nor was the activity obviously characteristic of 
known methods of misappropriation where it would be fair to say Barclays ought to have 
intervened. Barclays have also confirmed that prior to Ms Ts funds arriving and being spent 
there were no notifications of fraud in relation to this account. Of course, in hindsight, now 
knowing this was fraudulent it's easy to say Barclays should've taken certain steps, but 
taking what was known to Barclays at the material time I dont think there was a reason for it 
to intervene as it couldn't have realistically known Ms Ts transactions were made as a result 
of a scam. So, taking this altogether, Im satisfied there werent any failings by Barclays in 
this regard which contributed to Ms Ts loss.
Recovery
Ive also considered the steps Barclays took once it had received notification. Having done 
so, Im satisfied it promptly took the appropriate action, but unfortunately no funds remained 
which could be returned as Ms Ts funds had already been spent.Sharing of information
Barclays are required to comply with privacy laws. If it does not have a lawful basis for 
holding and processing personal data (which includes disclosing that information to a third 
party) it would be in breach of those. Ms T references Schedule 2 (specifically 2(1)(a) & (b), 
5(2) & (3)) of the Data Protection Act 2018. Schedule 2 covers exemptions from the UK 
GDPR. But in these circumstances, there isnt an exemption or an enactment which would 
allow Barclays to share a third-partys personal data with Ms T directly. Nor do I know of any 
legal proceedings (including prospective ones) where it could be said that the GDPR 
provisions do not apply. If this information were requested by an appropriate authority, I 
would expect Barclays to co-operate. And even then, whether a firm can rely on these 
exemptions is a matter for it to decide on a case by case basis.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman