DRN-3492767
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has refused to offer a 
guarantee period on the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) part of his pension pot.
Mr D also later complained that Aviva had not backdated his pension payments to his 65th 
birthday.
Mr D is represented in this matter by his partner.
What happened
I understand that in 1990 Mr D transfer deferred benefits from an occupational pension 
scheme to a Section 32 plan with Norwich Union (now Aviva).
In early 2020 Mr D contacted Aviva as he wanted to take a retirement income from his 
pension pot. Mr D requested several illustrations. He queried why Aviva had not offered him 
a guaranteed period on the GMP part of his pension pot. He noted that information he had 
received at the time he took out the plan indicated that the payments could be guaranteed 
for the first 5 or 10 years.
Aviva explained that, in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ds plan, the GMP part of his 
pension did not include a guaranteed payment period. It did however pay Mr D £75 to 
compensate him for its slow response to his query about whether it would offer a guaranteed 
payment period on the GMP part of his pension.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and his representative referred the matter to this 
service. 
Our investigator said he didnt think Aviva had acted incorrectly by not offering a guaranteed 
payment period on the GMP part of Mr Ds pension pot. 
Mr D said he, reluctantly, accepted our investigators view on this. He then said he felt Aviva 
should backdate his pension payments to the date of his 65th birthday as he felt he had 
made it clear to Aviva that he wanted to take his pension benefits from this date. 
Our investigator responded to Mr D again. He noted that Mr D said he had delayed 
instructing Aviva to pay the benefits as he wanted the issue regarding the GMP resolved 
before the annuity was arranged. Mr D said Aviva hadnt told him that it wouldnt backdate 
his pension payments to his 65th birthday, despite being aware that he had an ongoing 
complaint regarding a guaranteed payment period on the GMP part of his pension pot.
Having considered this further aspect of Mr Ds complaint, our investigator said he didnt 
think Aviva had treated Mr D unfairly when it said his pension would only be paid once it had 
received the necessary forms from Mr D. He explained that the terms of Mr Ds policy 
allowed him to defer payment of his pension and that the pension he received from Aviva 
was based on the value of his pension pot and annuity rates at the time his application to 
take his pension was received.
He also said he hadnt seen anything that showed Mr D had asked Aviva if his pension 
payments could be backdated to his 65th birthday. 
Mr D did not accept our investigators view. In summary he said: 
From when I started the process to claim my pension at the end of March 2020, Aviva have 
never made it clear that the pension will only commence when all the forms have been 
completed. Even when I explained to them that it was always my intention to take my 
pension from age 65, I was never informed of this.
In accordance with regulations, they advised me of the complaints procedure, but at no 
point did they explain that during this complaints process, the pension would only be brought 
into payment when the forms were completed and returned, even though I had told them that 
it was always my intention to take the pension benefits from age 65 or if I had signed and 
returned them how it would have impacted my complaint.
Mr D also explained that his understanding was that if I had completed the forms provided 
by Aviva, I was confirming the annual pension and the pension commencement lump sum I 
wished to take and also the conditions of the pension payments, this was based on the 
following wording in the information received from Aviva in their Income Risk Warnings 
section Changing your mind - You've let us know that you're aware you cant change 
your mind in the future, even if your circumstances change. You'll need to think carefully 
about your decision. Once you have bought your annuity you cant usually change it or cash 
it in, even if your circumstances change.
Mr D said that as he was querying Avivas claim that there was no minimum period that the 
GMP part of his pension would be paid for, I could not see how I could complete and sign 
the forms and still refer my case to the Ombudsman service, so this was the only reason 
why I didnt complete the forms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ds position and I have very carefully considered all the information 
both Mr D and Aviva have provided in connection with this complaint.
Mr D has said he accepts our investigators view that, in line with the terms and conditions of 
his plan, Aviva was not required to offer a guaranteed payment period on the GMP part of 
his pension. As this is the case, I have not considered this aspect of his complaint in this 
decision, other than to note that I agree with our investigators view on this matter.
I have focussed my comments below on Mr Ds complaint that Aviva did not make it clear 
that the pension will only commence when all the forms have been completed. Having 
reviewed the information available, I think Aviva did make this clear to Mr D. Ill explain why.
When Aviva wrote to Mr D on 23 April 2020 enclosing the quote he had asked for, it set out 
under the heading, Your next steps, that once Mr D had reviewed the information provided 
and, if necessary, sought advice or further information he should, Decide what you want to 
do and fill in the relevant form(s). It said once the form was completed it should be returned 
to Aviva and said well do the rest. 
It also explained, under the heading, Your decision:If we do not receive anything back from you, we will automatically move your retirement date 
to 75. You can still retire at any time before then; you will just need to let us know.
Likewise, the information sent with the application form for the Aviva annuity set out:
To choose an income for your lifetime with us, youll need to buy an In-house Annuity. If this 
is the option for you fill in the I want an income for my lifetime with Aviva form.
It also explained that Mr D needed to sign a declaration confirming that he had read the 
information Aviva had provided about the annuity and said:
You must then sign the declaration so that we carry out your instructions.
In view of this I think Aviva did make it adequately clear to Mr D that it would only set up his 
annuities once he had competed and returned the relevant form(s) and declaration.
I am mindful that Mr D has said I could not see how I could complete and sign the forms and 
still refer my case to the Ombudsman service, so this was the only reason why I didnt 
complete the forms. I appreciate Mr Ds position and I understand that he was concerned 
that he might jeopardise his complaint if he returned the forms to Aviva. In his comments to 
our investigator Mr D says he feels Aviva should have told him,  during this complaints 
process, the pension would only be brought into payment when the forms were completed 
and returned, even though I had told them that it was always my intention to take the 
pension benefits from age 65 or if I had signed and returned them how it would have 
impacted my complaint.
I appreciate that it would have been helpful if Aviva had set out in its response to Mr Ds 
complaint about the GMP part of his pension, that if he wanted to take his pension benefits 
at age 65 he would need to return the necessary forms before his 65th birthday. But I must 
take into account that this was clearly explained in the illustrations Mr D received from Aviva. 
If Mr D was unsure whether he would be able to continue with his complaint after he had 
instructed Aviva to start paying his pension benefits, I think Mr D should have raised this with 
Aviva at the time. Having reviewed the correspondence Mr D sent to Aviva I cant find 
anything to show that he did query this with Aviva.
In the letter Mr D sent to Aviva dated 8 July 2020, Mr D said he was looking to take my 
pension from age 65, but this letter was sent after Mr Ds 65th birthday. I think that if Mr D 
wanted Aviva to backdate his pension payments, he should have raised this with it at the 
time. 
Aviva would then have been able to confirm that, as set out in the information it had already 
provided to Mr D, he would need to complete the relevant application forms and declaration 
confirming the options he wanted to take, before the annuities could be set up. 
My final decision
My decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited does not need to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman