DRN-3897212
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt award the correct amount of reward points on 
his credit card spending.
What happened
Mr H holds a HSBC credit card account. The account benefits include a rewards point 
scheme on any qualifying spending  two points per £1 spent. But Mr H says that  from mid 
May 2021, HSBC hasnt awarded the correct amount of reward points based on the level of 
his spending. So, he complained to HSBC.  
HSBC says that some of the spending Mr H has referred to are cash transactions which 
arent included in the reward points scheme. It acknowledged that Mr H may have received 
points for similar transactions previously, but it says that was a result of a system error.
Unhappy with HSBCs response. Mr H referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into it but she didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she didnt think 
the transactions Mr H had made qualified under the HSBC reward points scheme.
Mr H didnt accept this outcome. He pointed that HSBC hadnt treated his transactions as 
cash transactions when he made them  the transactions didnt accrue interest from the 
transaction date as cash transactions generally do. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.    
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I appreciate 
that Mr H will be disappointed as he expected to receive reward points on all his credit card 
spending. So, Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that the account terms and conditions of the reward scheme applied to 
spending on goods and services i.e. purchases. And that transactions for goods and 
services are different to a cash transactions. What is in dispute here is whether Mr Hs 
transactions fall into the category of a cash transaction and are therefore ineligible for the 
rewards scheme. So, Ive given careful thought to this. 
Ive firstly looked at Mr Hs credit card statements and Im satisfied that the transactions in 
dispute relate to Mr H using his HSBC credit card to fund an account he held with another 
account provider. 
Ive also looked at the account terms and conditions. These say: Earn 2 points for every £1 
of eligible spend and eligible spend excludes cash advances, fees, balance transfers, 
cheques, refunds, interest or any other charges. 
I accept that the transactions Mr H was undertaking dont specifically fall into the categories   
listed in the exclusions section of the reward scheme term and conditions. I also accept that 
HSBC hasnt applied interest to these transactions in the same way it does for the types of 
transactions listed above i.e. interest hasnt been applied from the date of the transaction 
such as when a cash withdrawal is made. 
But Im persuaded that the transactions that were being undertaken were more akin to a 
cash transaction - Mr H was moving his available credit from his credit card to another 
account with another provider (much like a balance transfer), rather than a purchase of 
goods and services. 
I note Mr H has received rewards prior to May 2021 for similar transactions. But HSBC has 
said that was due to a bank error. HSBC has not said those points will be retrieved by it, and 
Im satisfied thats fair. But, overall, Im not persuaded that HSBC has done anything wrong 
by excluding any further transactions to Mr Hs other account from the rewards point 
scheme. So, I wont be asking HSBC to credit Mr Hs account with any reward points as a 
result of this complaint. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman