DRN-3927793
The complaint
Mr P complains about the price he was charged and the information he was given by AXA 
Insurance UK plc (AXA) at renewal of his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P had a motor insurance policy with AXA. 
He called AXA before renewal of his policy with a question about the cover it provided him. 
During the call he asked the call handler whether AXA would price match a quotation from 
another insurer.
The call handler said they thought that AXA did price match sometimes, but that Mr P would 
need to check with the renewals team once his renewal quotation was sent to him by AXA.
Mr P said AXAs call handler had confirmed that it would price match and he complained. 
AXA listened to the call and confirmed its call handler had said Mr P needed to check, so Mr 
P hadnt been given incorrect information and it didnt uphold his complaint.
AXA then sent him the renewal quotation and Mr P found that the price of his policy had 
increased by about £7 from his 2021 policy. He wasnt happy about this and complained. 
AXA said it had priced Mr Ps policy correctly and it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr P remained unhappy and brought his complaints to this service. He was unhappy about 
AXA increasing his premium. He also says that he missed out on a cheaper quote with 
another company because he was waiting for AXA to confirm it would price match.
Our investigator looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. He didnt think AXA had done 
anything wrong.
Mr P didnt agree with the view, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at both complaints Mr P has made and will deal with them separately here. Im 
not going to uphold either of them, and Ill explain why.
Price increase at renewal
Its important for me to explain that this service is not the industry regulator. That means its 
not my role to tell an insurer how much it can charge for its policies. And our service 
generally takes the view that provided it treats people fairly an insurer is entitled to charge 
what it feels it needs to in order to cover a risk. 
Its not for me to decide what is a reasonable cost for the insurance, and what risk factors 
the insurer should take into consideration. It is important to explain my role here is to look at 
whether the insurer acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and within the terms and 
conditions of the policy in its dealings with Mr P.
AXA has confirmed that it offered Mr P the correctly calculated renewal terms.
Mr P was offered renewal of his insurance contract for a small additional premium which 
equated to an increase of about 1.7%. He wasnt obliged to accept the renewal terms he had 
been offered if he was unhappy with them. So I cant say hes been treated unfairly by AXA.
Price matching
Ive listened to the conversation between Mr P and AXAs call handler with the disputed 
phrase. Its clear to me from the call that AXAs call handler says Mr P needed to check with 
the renewals team about the price match, once hed received AXAs renewal invite. 
AXAs call handler does then add that she thinks AXA might offer a price match and uses the 
word sometimes, but she re-clarifies that Mr P needs to discuss that with AXA once his 
renewal quote has been received.
Mr P has also said hes unhappy because he wasnt able to take out a cheaper policy 
elsewhere because he thought AXA was going to price match. But as I have said, I dont 
think AXA did offer the ability to price match to Mr P, so I dont think I can fairly say AXA are 
at fault.
I dont think AXA provided Mr P with incorrect information and I dont uphold this part of his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman