DRN-3954634
The complaint
Ms D complains that ReAssure Limited incorrectly stopped collecting monthly premiums that 
she was paying to her pension savings.
What happened
Ms D held two pension plans that had previously been opened with Legal and General. That 
pension business was transferred, with the consent of the High Court, to ReAssure in 
September 2020. And as part of that transaction ReAssure has taken responsibility for any 
administrative complaints arising from Legal and Generals actions before the transfer. So, 
although it isnt clear exactly when an error was made on Ms Ds pension plan, ReAssure is 
responsible for dealing with it regardless. For ease, in this decision, I will simply refer to 
ReAssure as the responsible business throughout.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2023. In that decision I explained 
why I thought part of the complaint should be upheld, and what ReAssure needed to do in 
order to put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, 
for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, I include some extracts 
from it below. In my decision I said;
Ms D holds pension savings with ReAssure. Until recently she held two separate 
pension plans that were both opened in August 1992. ReAssure has described one 
of the plans as a DSS policy  by that it appears to mean that it was opened to 
receive rebates of national insurance contributions due to Ms D electing to opt out of 
the state earnings related pension scheme.
When Ms D opened the pension plan she agreed to make monthly contributions of 
£30. But those contributions were to be linked to increases in average earnings. So 
by the time of the matters that led to this complaint, Ms D was making monthly 
pension contributions of £100 that were enhanced by the addition of tax relief making 
a total monthly contribution of £125.
When the plan was first taken out Ms D said that she wished to take her pension 
benefits at age 55  in 2015. I can see that in 2015 she asked for her retirement date 
to be altered to her 60th birthday. And Ms D has provided us with a letter that was 
then sent to her in July 2020, after I assume further discussions with the business, 
extending her retirement age on what ReAssure has described as the DSS plan by a 
further five years.
It appears the change to the retirement age wasnt added to Ms Ds other pension 
plan. So, when she reached 60 years of age the following month ReAssure stopped 
adding any further contributions to her pension plan. It wrote to Ms D in September 
2020 to inform her that it held an overpaid contribution and that it was returning £125 
to her bank account but it didnt explicitly tell her that her contributions had stopped.
In March 2021 Ms D got in touch with ReAssure to discuss her pension savings. At 
that time she noted a lack of growth in the value of her pension investments over the 
previous year. ReAssure explained that it had not collected any contributions due to 
Ms D having reached the selected retirement age for her pension plan. Ms D told 
ReAssure that had been an error and complained about what had happened.
ReAssure offered to consider reinstating Ms Ds missed contributions. It asked Ms D 
to complete an application form. The form contained a section relating to her health, 
and required Ms D to provide ReAssure with permission to contact her doctor. Ms D 
considered that to be an unnecessary requirement and declined to complete the 
application form.
Ms D had a number of other conversations with ReAssure before bringing her 
complaint to us. But ReAssure has said that, in April 2022, Ms D took the entire 
amount of her pension savings in the main plan as a lump sum payment. It says that 
the other plan, containing the DSS benefits, remains in force.
I have set out in some detail the two pension plans that Ms D held with ReAssure. 
Both plans were opened at the same time, and via the same application form. It 
seems that Ms D wanted to open a personal pension plan and, in line with what was 
often the general approach at that time, opened an additional pension plan to opt out 
of the state earnings related pension scheme. It seems to me that Ms D drew little 
distinction between the two plans, and saw them as a combined resource to provide 
income in her retirement.
 
So it is surprising that, in 2020, the letter she was sent regarding the deferral of her 
planned retirement date was only in relation to one of the plans. It doesnt seem to 
me that would have been Ms Ds intention. But given the time that has passed, and 
the change of pension provider, I cannot be sure what led to that error.
Shortly afterwards, Ms D reached the selected retirement age on her main pension 
plan (that hadnt been updated). As a result ReAssure stopped collecting any further 
pension contributions. But it doesnt seem that was something it explicitly made Ms D 
aware of. I can see that it sent her a letter saying that it held an overpayment and 
would be returning a sum of £125 to her bank account. But without any further 
explanation I share Ms Ds assertion that it would have been unreasonable for her to 
conclude from that letter that her contributions had been stopped. I think it would 
have been helpful for ReAssure to have explained to Ms D that it was no longer 
going to collect the monthly contribution she had been paying for almost 30 years.
Ms D has explained that she didnt notice that the contributions were no longer being 
taken from her bank account. She says that her finances had been altered by the 
restrictions imposed due to the coronavirus pandemic, and so her disposable income 
was higher than before. So the additional money from the cancelled contributions 
was simply absorbed into that surplus. I think that explanation is plausible and so Im 
not persuaded that Ms D should have been aware from her bank account balance 
that her contributions had stopped.
Ms D received an annual pension statement around March 2021. At that time she got 
in touch with ReAssure, both to discuss taking some pension income and to query a 
lack of growth in her fund value. It was during that conversation that Ms D first 
became aware that her contributions had stopped being collected.
ReAssure offered Ms D the opportunity to make up the missed contributions. And it 
said that future contributions could be restarted. It sent some paperwork to Ms D that 
was described as a Reinstatement Eligibility Questionnaire. It is that form that Ms D 
has described as being unreasonable and punitive.The form that Ms D was asked to complete appears to have been designed for use 
when a consumer had either deliberately or inadvertently stopped making pension 
contributions, and now wanted to restart them. The form would allow ReAssure to 
decide whether to allow the reinstatement of a pension plan. But that is very different 
from the situation here. Ms D had not asked for her contributions to be stopped  that 
was an action taken independently by ReAssure. So I can understand why Ms D 
would be frustrated at needing to complete a form to allow ReAssure to correct an 
error that she considered it had made.
Ive looked carefully at the content of the form Ms D was sent, along with the three 
pages of guidance notes that accompanied it. Ms D has highlighted section 5 of the 
form as being of greatest concern since it asked for details of any medical conditions, 
and access to her medical records.
But the guidance notes say that section is only required to be completed for pension 
plans that include any protection benefits, for example Waiver of Premium or 
Pension Term Assurance. My understanding is that those sorts of benefits didnt 
form part of Ms Ds pension plan, and so I dont think she was required to complete 
that section of the form.
So, had Ms D understood more correctly the request that ReAssure was making, she 
might have been more inclined to complete the form. But it remains very much the 
case that she only needed to complete this form because ReAssure had stopped 
collecting her premiums  not because of a decision Ms D had made.
 
Im not persuaded that, at the time, Ms D would have found it attractive to make up 
the contributions that had previously been missed. Her call to ReAssure was to 
discuss taking benefits from her pension savings, rather than adding to them. But 
I cannot entirely discount that Ms D might have restarted the contributions had the 
process not required her to complete the application form. But, ReAssure wasnt the 
only pension provider available  had Ms D wanted to continue making monthly 
pension contributions she could have done so with an alternative provider. So, on 
balance, Im not persuaded that the requirement ReAssure imposed for the 
completion of the reinstatement application form is the only reason that Ms D didnt 
restart her pension contributions.
I dont think ReAssure treated Ms D fairly when it stopped collecting her pension 
contributions. On balance I think it most likely that Ms D had informed Legal and 
General that the retirement date for both her pension plans should be altered to her 
65th birthday. Whilst I entirely accept that information might not have been correctly 
migrated to ReAssure, I dont think that means it can place the blame for the failure 
elsewhere.
But whilst I accept that, had nothing gone wrong, Ms D might have continued to pay 
her pension contributions each month, I think ReAssure provided her with sufficient 
opportunity to catch up, or restart those contributions. Whilst it might seem a little 
unreasonable for Ms D to need to apply for the mistake to be corrected, I dont think 
that the form she was asked to complete was as onerous as she concluded  I think 
the guidance notes made it clear that she wasnt required to complete the medical 
section.
So Im not going to make any directions about ReAssure needing to reinstate Ms Ds 
pension contributions. To do so, particularly given that Ms D has now taken all her 
benefits from those pension savings, would be problematic, and might reasonably lead to Ms D needing to repay some or all of the benefits she has taken so far. I think 
that Ms D could restart her pension savings with another provider, or in an alternative 
plan with ReAssure, if that is what she now wants to do.
But as Ive said earlier, I dont think ReAssure treated Ms D fairly in the first place 
when it stopped collecting her contributions and didnt advise her of that decision. 
There is no doubt that has caused her distress and inconvenience. I am currently 
minded that the compensation our investigator proposed doesnt adequately reflect 
the inconvenience Ms D has been caused. So, subject to any further representations 
in response to this provisional decision, I intend to direct ReAssure to pay Ms D the 
sum of £500 instead.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. ReAssure hasnt provided us with anything further. Ms D doesnt agree 
with my provisional findings and has provided some extensive comments. Although I am 
only summarising here what Ms D has said, I want to reassure her that I have read, and 
carefully considered, her entire response.
Ms D has confirmed that she has never paid any contributions into what has been called her 
DSS plan  that plan only received her rebated national insurance contributions. All her 
contributions were paid into the other plan.
She says that throughout her complaint ReAssure was adamant that she would need to 
complete the medical questionnaire so that her benefits wouldnt be affected should she die. 
She says that she was unable to persuade ReAssure that her benefits were not in the form 
of life insurance policies.
Ms D says that she had no desire to back date the missed contributions  she simply wanted 
to restart her plan. She says that the fact that the contributions were stopped was entirely 
due to ReAssures error. Ms D says that completing any forms to restart those contributions 
would have been tacit approval that she was responsible for the contributions stopping.
Ms D took the benefits from her pension plan in April 2022. She asks that ReAssure be 
asked to pay her the interest and bonusses the pension would have accrued had her 
contributions not been stopped.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything that Ms D has told us, Im not persuaded that 
I should change the findings I set out in my provisional decision. But I would like to comment 
further on some of the matters that Ms D has raised in response.
As I have explained in my provisional decision, there is no doubt that Ms D had little 
involvement in her pension contributions being stopped. And I am satisfied that the letter 
ReAssure sent to her about the refund of an overpaid contribution was insufficient to make 
her reasonably aware of the change. So it wasnt until Ms D received her annual statement 
in March 2021, and spoke to ReAssure about the information it contained, that she became 
reasonably aware that her contributions had stopped.
But Im still of the opinion that it is likely that, by that time, Ms Ds financial circumstances 
had altered, and paying monthly pension contributions might have been less attractive. She 
was calling ReAssure to discuss taking some pension benefits rather than adding to them. I think it likely that the extended period without making pension contributions had seen Ms D 
find alternative uses for those monies.
Of course it still remains true that Ms D was only placed into that position by the decision 
that ReAssure took to stop collecting her contributions. I think it most likely that, had 
ReAssure not taken that action, Ms Ds contributions would have continued unaltered. But 
the fact is that her contributions did stop. I dont think it either fair, or reasonable, that Ms D 
should derive any benefits from contributions that she didnt make.
I havent seen anything that makes me think the benefits that will be available to Ms D at 
retirement in what has been called the DSS plan have been affected by the cancellation of 
her regular contributions. And, until Ms D took her benefits from the other pension plan her 
savings will have continued to attract investment returns in line with the terms of the plan. 
The benefits Ms D ultimately took will have been reduced since they didnt contain the 
missing contributions, but as Ive explained, Ms D had the benefit of those monies to meet 
other day to day living costs.
I accept that Ms D was asked to complete the medical section of the reinstatement 
questionnaire. And I agree with her that it would have been much better customer service if 
she hadnt been asked to complete the form at all. But Im not persuaded that the completion 
of that form was the only reason she failed to restart her pension contributions, or catch up 
on those that had been previously missed.
So I still conclude that what would be fair and reasonable to resolve this complaint would be 
for ReAssure to pay some compensation to Ms D for the inconvenience she has been 
caused. I dont think that, given Ms D was given the opportunity to restart her contributions 
and pay any missed contributions, she has otherwise lost out in financial terms. So I direct 
ReAssure to pay Ms D the sum of £500 for the inconvenience she has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Ms Ds complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman