DRN-2189305
The complaint
Mr W complains that Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetter provided misleading 
information about the outstanding balance on his fixed sum loan agreement. 
What happened
In early 2017, Mr W entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with RateSetter for £3,000. He 
was required to make 60 monthly repayments of around £73. Since late 2019, Mr W had 
increased his monthly repayments to £100, which were paid by direct debit. In May 2020, he 
began making ad-hoc overpayments to the loan in addition to the regular payment of £100.
Mr W complained to RateSetter at the end of May 2020 about the information it was 
displaying online about his outstanding balance. He said that he had logged into his 
RateSetter account and it showed an outstanding balance of around £900. He said that he 
made an ad-hoc payment of £300 and it later showed he had an outstanding balance of 
around £1,000.
RateSetter said the information it had displayed was correct. It said that at certain times of 
the month the outstanding balance doesnt include any pending direct debit payments. It said 
at the time Mr W checked the account, his regular £100 direct debit was due to collect very 
soon, it was therefore displaying a balance £100 lower to avoid him accidentally overpaying 
the loan. It said the balance of £1,000 didnt include the £300 overpayment as it would take a 
few days to credit the account. 
Mr W didnt think this was clear enough on the online account. He said that RateSetter had 
failed in its duty to give clear and accurate information about the loan and in particular the 
amounts outstanding. 
Mr W continued to make further overpayments to the loan and made his final repayment on 
26 June 2020. This was after confirming with RateSetter by email the exact settlement 
figure. He said the online screens continued to show misleading information about what was 
due as these indicated the settlement figure was £100 less than overall outstanding balance. 
RateSetter applied the final payment to settle the loan on 2 July 2020. Mr W raised a further 
complaint to say that the loan should have been settled in June 2020. He said he wanted 
RateSetter to amend his credit file to show he settled the account in June. 
RateSetter didnt agree. It said before Mr W had made the payment it had told him that its 
systems couldnt accept a payment until after 29 June 2020 because the usual direct debit 
was due to collect. It said because Mr W had cancelled his direct debit and was making a 
larger one-off payment by bank transfer instead, it had applied the final payment in line with 
the terms and conditions of the loan and it was correctly showing as settled on 2 July 2020. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought that RateSetter had 
provided a clear explanation for why the settlement figure showed as it did on the online 
account. He said that as Mr W didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of that information 
and that it had given an explanation soon after Mr W asked about, he didnt think it needed 
to do more to put things right. Lastly, he was satisfied that RateSetter didnt act unfairly in 
recording the loan as settled in July 2020. 
Mr W didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr W would have been alarmed to see that his outstanding balance 
had appeared to increase despite him making an overpayment. Ive reviewed the 
screenshots of the online account which gave Mr W information about the outstanding 
balance on his loan. Having done so, I can see why it wouldnt have been immediately clear 
to Mr W why this had happened. 
RateSetter responded quickly to Mr Ws concerns and gave him a clear explanation of why 
the balance had displayed in the way that it had. It has also provided a statement of account 
to show that all of Mr Ws payments have been applied correctly and that his outstanding 
balance was amended each time as it should. Having reviewed these, Im satisfied Mr W 
doesnt appear to have suffered any financial loss.  
Mr W says that RateSetter has a duty to provide clear information about the outstanding 
balance of the account. While it is debatable whether the information on the online account 
is clear enough, Mr W was given clear information about the status of his loan, including the 
outstanding balance when he queried it directly with RateSetter. I therefore think irrespective 
of what the online account was showing, RateSetter has ensured its provided clear 
information to Mr W. 
Im not the regulator of the financial services industry so it isnt my role to set out how 
RateSetter is required to make information available to its consumers. Instead, my role is to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of Mr Ws complaint. As 
Ive already mentioned, Mr W hasnt suffered any financial loss as a result of the information 
on the online account. While I acknowledge he will have been distressed with what he 
thought was a serious accounting error, RateSetter quickly put right that misunderstanding 
and gave adequate assurances and clear information about the outstanding balance of his 
loan. So, taking everything into account, I think RateSetter dealt with Mr Ws complaint in a 
fair and reasonable way. 
Mr W raised further concerns at a later date about how RateSetter was recording the 
settlement of the loan on his credit file. He says that as he made his final payment in 
June 2020, the loan should be showing as settled in June.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the loan agreement. Mr Ws final payment wasnt 
his usual direct debit payment as this had been cancelled. Instead, Mr W was making a bank 
transfer to settle the entire outstanding balance. Section 2.7 of the loan terms sets out that 
any overpayments will be credited to your loan two working days following the date it is 
received and/or identified (the Settlement Date). This means that the payment Mr W made 
would have credited the loan either two working days after the payment was received by 
RateSetter or two working days after the settlement date.
Mr W made the payment by bank transfer. Section 2.7.3 sets out what is considered the 
settlement date in relation to payments by bank transfer. It says the settlement date will be 
two working days after it has been received and identified as applicable to your loan.RateSetter says that because the payment window for the regular direct debit was open 
until 29 June 2020, it couldnt process Mr Ws additional payment until after that date. This 
was because it needed to ensure that the direct debit wouldnt collect first causing Mr W to 
have paid more than he owed. It says it told Mr W this prior to him making the payment on 
26 June 2020. 
The terms and conditions say that it will take two working days to credit the loan after the 
date the payment has been received and identified as belonging to Mr Ws loan. RateSetter 
have given a reasonable explanation for why it couldnt identify the payment until after 
29 June 2020, even though it may have been received earlier. The first day it could have 
therefore began to process the payment was 30 June 2020. As it then applied the payment 
to the loan two working days after this, on 2 July 2020, I dont think RateSetter has acted 
against the terms of the loan or acted unreasonably or unfairly in how its treated the 
payment. Taking everything into account, I dont think RateSetter needs to do anything else 
to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman