DRN-3198549
The complaint
Mr T complains about the decision by AXA Insurance UK Plc to turn down his claim for the 
theft of his motorhome. 
What happened
Mr T held insurance cover for his motorhome with AXA. The policy renewed in September 
2017. 
Mr T decided to sell his motorhome. In April 2018, Mr T signed a broker sales agreement 
with a dealer (that Ill call S). It was agreed that S would sell the motorhome and would pay 
a return price of £38,280 to Mr T within 30 days of the sale. However, S then sold the 
motorhome for £32,000, and didnt pay any of the sale proceeds to Mr T. Several other 
motorhome owners had a similar experience. S then went into liquidation.
Mr T made a claim under his policy for theft. AXA turned down the claim by relying on 
exclusions relating to deception. Unhappy with this, Mr Ts representative brought a 
complaint to this service on his behalf. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. The investigator thought it had 
been reasonable for AXA to conclude that the claim fell under the relevant exclusions.
Mr Ts representative didnt accept our investigators findings for a number of reasons. He 
also thought AXA had provided this service with the incorrect policy terms and therefore 
thought the exclusions relied upon by AXA couldnt apply. 
The matter has therefore been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has provided this service with policy terms dated February 2017. These refer to the 
Caravan and Motorhome Club. AXA obtained the policy terms from the broker, and has 
relied upon the exclusions relating to deception within it. These exclude:
Loss or damage to the motorhome where possession is gained by any form of deception or 
fraud. 
Losing money because you are deceived, or do not receive all the money you agree when 
you sell the motorhome.
Mr Ts representative has provided a renewal document sent to Mr T in September 2017. 
This refers to various changes in the policy terms from renewal, and he quite rightly points 
out that those changes (together with their page numbers) dont correspond with the policy 
terms provided by AXA. 
Weve asked AXA about this, but it hasnt responded. Given the number of times weve 
asked AXA for clarification on this, Ill assume it doesnt intend to respond. 
Based on the renewal document, I think its apparent that AXA has provided the wrong policy 
terms and conditions. However, unfortunately, Mr T didnt keep his copy of the policy terms 
and so he cant provide this either. 
Mr Ts representative has downloaded a copy of a policy document (with the title AXA 
Motorhome Insurance) from the internet. This policy includes a different deception clause to 
the policy terms provided by AXA, and instead excludes:
Loss of your motorhome by deception of someone who claims to be a buyer or agent.
Ive looked carefully at this document. Whilst its dated May 2017, I see that this also doesnt 
correspond with all the changes set out in the renewal document. 
Mr Ts representative says that the information Mr T was given (the renewal notice, policy 
schedule, and certificate of motor insurance) made him think hed taken out a policy 
provided by AXA Motorhome, rather than the Caravan and Motorhome Club. 
However, I see that Mr Ts representative previously provided this service with a key facts 
document titled Caravan and Motorhome Club Motorhome Insurance Policy Summary. This 
contained a summary of the cover under the policy and was dated February 2017. 
The key facts document provided by Mr T sets out significant and unusual exclusions or 
limitations. One of those says:
Loss or damage to the motorhome where possession is gained by any form of deception or 
fraud.
This exclusion corresponds with one of the exclusions that AXA has relied upon to turn down 
the claim. The renewal document from September 2017 doesnt say that any changes were 
made to this exclusion. Therefore, although neither party has been able to provide the 
correct policy terms and conditions, we know Mr T had been provided with the key facts 
document which set out this exclusion. Therefore, I think its reasonable to conclude that this 
exclusion most likely applied at the time of loss. 
The next point for me to consider is whether it was fair for AXA to turn down the claim, based 
on this exclusion.
Mr Ts representative has provided an email from the liquidator of Ss business. She says 
she was engaged by Ss director prior to the liquidation, as the director thought they may be 
able to trade their way through the situation. Mr Ts representative thinks this shows there 
wasnt an outright intent to deceive on Ss directors part when the agreement with Mr T was 
made. He also thinks S may have paid the agreed return price to some customers.
I see that S was investigated by the Insolvency Service, and the director of S signed a 
Disqualification Undertaking. In this, the director of S made it clear that when she entered 
into brokerage agreements between January and May 2018, she knew or ought to have 
known that S was insolvent and unable to pay the agreed return price to customers. Also, from May 2017, the director of S entered into similar brokerage agreements to Mr Ts, but 
used customer funds to settle historic liabilities. 
The agreement between Mr T and S was that payment of the return price of £38,280 would 
be made to Mr T 30 days after the sale of the vehicle had been concluded. Taking the above 
into account, I think its more likely than not that S knew they wouldnt be able to honour this 
agreement (even if they hoped they may be eventually able to repay Mr T). Consequently, I 
think its fair to say that S deceived Mr T into handing over his motorhome.
Mr Ts representative thinks this service shouldnt rely on the information provided in the 
Disqualification Undertaking document, as this was produced for the purposes of the 
Company Director Disqualification Act 1986. 
Given that the document relates to Ss directors knowledge at the time the agreement with 
Mr T was made, I think its appropriate for this service to take it into account. Though in any 
event, I see that the information Ive referred to above that was contained in the document 
was also published in the public domain by the Insolvency Service. 
Mr Ts representative also argues that the sales agreement with Mr T was entered into by an 
employee of S, and that this employee didnt intend to deceive Mr T. However, Im satisfied 
the agreement was entered into by the employee on Ss behalf, and the director of S had 
overall responsibility for this, as evidenced by the statements contained in the 
Disqualification Undertaking.
Mr Ts representative has provided this service with an email written by the police. This says 
their assessment of the circumstances was that the director of S hadnt used trickery or 
deception to commit a fraud. They thought she had committed the crime of embezzlement, 
and had initially been charged with this rather than fraud. 
Ive also seen a later letter written by the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service 
(COPFS). This says that criminal proceedings had been raised against the director of S, and 
there was sufficient evidence to libel a charge of theft.  It also says that at the point the 
vehicles were in the director of Ss possession, there was no evidence of deception. 
To be clear, Ive only considered whether it was reasonable for AXA to conclude thered 
been deception based on the relevant insurance exclusion and the ordinary meaning of the 
word. I would assume the police and the COPFS were considering this in the context of 
criminal law, and deciding which charges to raise against the director of S. 
I recognise that Mr T will be disappointed by this decision. The loss of his motorhome has 
resulted in a significant financial loss for him. However, I think AXAs claims decision was fair 
as Im satisfied it was reasonable for AXA to conclude that possession of Mr Ts motorhome 
was gained through deception.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman