DRN-3193596
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the poor standard of repairs carried out when she made a
claim under her home insurance policy with Zurich Insurance PLC. Shes also unhappy with
the service she received from Zurich.
What happened
In 2007 Mrs M made a claim for flood damage to her property which her insurer, Zurich
accepted. Repairs were carried out to the property and a replacement wood burning stove
was installed along with replacing the tiled flooring throughout downstairs.
Mrs M identified cracks in the chimney breast when in use. Mrs M says she contacted the 
contractor who arranged the installation at the time but was told it wasnt an installation 
issue. 
Mrs M contacted Zurich in January 2019. In May 2019 Mrs M also discovered cracks to the 
some of the floor tiles, so she contacted Zurich about this too. 
Zurich instructed a contractor to inspect the installation works for the stove and the flooring.
Mrs M gave Zurich details of the Nation Association of Chimney Engineers (NACE) as the
appropriate expert to provide a report on the installation of the stove. However, Zurichs
agent sent different contractors out three times to Mrs Ms property  all who were unable to
investigate - before it was agreed to appoint a NACE specialist.
In May 2019 the NACE specialist reported a number of serious failings in the original
installation of the stove.
The contractor for the flooring reported that the cause of the damage was due to an escape
of water. But a further report carried out by a leak detection company said there was no
evidence of a leak.
Zurich accepted that the cracks to the chimney breast and to the floor tiles were both caused
by poor workmanship.
Mrs M arranged for her preferred contractors to carry out the rectification repairs and Zurich
agreed to cover the costs by paying Mrs M a cash settlement.
In August 2019 Mrs M complained to Zurich about the way it handled the concerns she
raised with it. She said from the outset Zurichs agents had made it difficult despite Mrs M
providing information from experts to support her concerns. Mrs M was very upset about the
length of time it took for Zurich to accept that the repairs had been carried out poorly. She
said the worry and upset when she and Mr M discovered the stove hadnt been safely
installed was significant.
It was agreed between Mrs M and Zurich that her complaint would be investigated after the
repairs were completed. This was in October 2020. Zurich settled Mrs Ms claim by paying a
cash settlement  Mrs M used her preferred contractors to carry out the repair works.
Zurich said it wouldnt consider the impact of what might have happened. But it upheld Mrs
Ms complaint. For the distress and upset caused, it paid £2,000 compensation.
Mrs M asked us to look at her complaint. She didnt think the amount Zurich had paid was
enough.
Our investigator thought Zurich should pay Mrs M a further £1,000 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience caused. She highlighted findings of the NACE report which
commented on the qualifications of the contractors and quality of the work. And she said
Zurich was ultimately responsible for the contractors poor workmanship and actions  and
that Zurich hadnt fully considered the distress this experience had caused to Mrs M.
Mrs M accepted the investigators findings. Zurich didnt agree. In summary it said:
 Some of the failed building regulation requirements referenced in the NACEs report
came into effect in 2010. The installation took place in 2009 and so the health and
safety checks were different to that reported. For example; it wasnt a requirement to
have a carbon monoxide detector fitted.
 Mrs M was unhappy with the choice of approved contractor by Zurich for the original
works and so she chose the contractor who carried out the installation in 2009. Had it
been a Zurich approved contractor, it agrees the qualifications of the contractor
would have been suitably checked and something Zurich was responsible for. Zurich
however disagreed that the qualifications of the installer needed to be as described in
the NACE report.
 Due to the time that has passed, it could no longer check if Mrs M was or wasnt
provided with the appropriate certificates for the works. It doesnt believe this should
be considered as it is out of time for Zurich to be able to investigate.
Our investigator explained that although Mrs M didnt appreciate the seriousness of the
problem until May 2019, she knew something was wrong each time she used the stove as
cracks would appear on the chimney breast and this caused her worry and inconvenience in
having contractors look at the issue and carry out plastering repairs  only to fail once the
stove was lit again. The investigator considered Zurichs comments on the building
regulations from the NACE report. But she said there was no dispute that the installation of
the stove was very poor, dangerous and failed to meet the minimum safety requirements. So
although Zurich approved contractor didnt carry out the works, the investigator felt Zurich
was ultimately responsible for the repairs under the claim.
Zurich didnt agree. It said it properly considered Mrs Ms complaint and the compensation it 
awarded was reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 November 2021. I thought Zurich had done enough to 
resolve Mrs Ms complaint. 
Zurich didnt reply to my provisional decision. Mrs M replied and Ive addressed the salient 
points in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease Ive set out the complaints under headings below.
DelayIts clear from the timeline that Zurich caused unnecessary delay in its handling of the claim
when Mrs M contacted it in January 2019 to raise her concerns. Mrs M says she gave Zurich
details of a contact at the NACE as they were the appropriate body to report on the
installation of the stove and the damage to the chimney. However Zurichs agent arranged
for three visits to Mrs Ms property between March and April 2019 by contractors that were
unable to provide a report due to the works requiring a specialist opinion. This caused a
preventable delay of five months.
When Mrs M reported damage to the flooring in May 2019, she advised that a specialist had
looked at the flooring and told her it hadnt been properly fitted. Zurich went on to instruct a
contractor to inspect the flooring  and in May 2019 they report that the damage was due to
a water leak.
Mrs M agreed for a leak detection company to carry out a further inspection. They found no
evidence of a water leak. It wasnt until September 2019 that Zurich agreed for a specialist to
inspect Mrs Ms floor. They confirmed the information Mrs M provided when she first
reported the damage  that the floor hadnt been poorly fitted.
It took approximately a year from the time Zurich agreed poor workmanship was the cause
of the damage to Mrs Ms property until October 2020. While I understand that Mrs M used
her preferred contractors to carry out the work  I have to keep in mind that had the works
been originally properly carried out, this further year of considerable disruption wouldnt have
been necessary for Mrs M and her family. Zurich considered the impact of the poor
workmanship carried out when it decided to pay Mrs M compensation of £2,000. Its clear
that the service Mrs M received from Zurich was extremely poor. Ive addressed the issue of
compensation later in my decision.
NACE report
I can see that Zurich doesnt accept some of the findings in the NACE report in relation to
safety guidelines in place at the time and the qualifications of the installer(s). Its provided a
copy of the LA report from 2007 which shows that they suggested a contractor to carry out
the works, but Mrs M refused and asked to use a different contractor, G which had carried
out work to her property before. So I dont think Zurich instructed G. But this doesnt change
the outcome  as Zurich accepts that its ultimately responsible for the poor installation of the
stove under the claim.
I understand the investigators mention of the lack of documentation: certificate for
completion of works, guarantees or warranties provided to Mrs M at the time the works were
carried out  based on the NACE report. I also understand that Zurich believes this shouldnt
be taken into account. It says Mrs M would have been aware if shed received no
documentation at the time and had six years to raise any concerns about that with Zurich.
However, as the investigator explained, when looking at jurisdiction issues or disputes in
order to consider the complaint out of jurisdiction we would need to be satisfied that Mrs M
knew (or ought to have reasonably known) the following three things:
-There was a problem.
-They have suffered or they may suffer a loss.
-That someone else is responsible for the problem (and who that someone is).
All three points need to be present, although I agree with the investigator that the third point
is particularly relevant here. Mrs M didnt become aware that someone else (Zurich) was
responsible for the problem with the installation of the stove until she sought specialistadvice in 2018 about the cracks in the chimney breast. And as soon as she was made
aware, she contacted Zurich.
It wasnt until Mrs M sought specialist advice that she was made aware that the works in
2009 should have been signed off. So I dont think this is something Mrs M ought to have
reasonably known before  having no experience of building work.
Zurich has accepted responsibility for the poor workmanship carried out under the claim in
2009. And so I think it reasonably follows that Zurich is responsible for the impact of the poor
workmanship on Mrs M.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs M says she never instructed the third party 
contractor that carried out the installation of the stove. But Ive found that Zurich is ultimately 
responsible and so Ive upheld this complaint point. 
The impact on Mrs M
Mrs M says that between 2004 and 2009 she was flooded several times and spent two years
living in a caravan. Mrs M says she and her family moved back into the home in the winter of
2009. Since then she said shes spent over three years having to deal with several agencies
to enforce the arrangement of suitable flooding defences on neighbouring land. For over
three years Mrs M says Zurich withdrew offering insurance due to the risk the property
imposed of being repeatedly flooded.
Mrs M says its been harrowing having to deal with being flooded. She says the personal
cost on her mental health and relationships has been serious and significant. Mrs M says
between October 2019 and October 2020 she received next to no contact from Zurich  it
was she who notified them when the works were completed  and advised them that shed
negotiated the costs so that she owed Zurich a refund of £124.68 on the cash settlement it
paid her.
Ive carefully considered what Mrs M has said here. I dont doubt it has been a very difficult 
time. And Ive considered the additional comments Mrs M has made in response to my 
provisional decision. She says that when she accepted for the third party contractor to carry 
out the works in 2009, by this stage her home had been flooded five times and the contractor 
had carried out satisfactory works in 2004. She wants consideration of the mental anguish 
that goes with having to deal with such events to be taken into account here. 
However, as I explained in my provisional decision, my role is to take an even handed 
approach as to what Zurich was responsible for, what the impact of their failings were and 
what it has done to put things right.
We do not consider the impact of what might have happened. Fortunately in this case, there
was no physical harm caused as a result of the poor installation of the stove. And I can see
that Mrs M became aware of the extent of the poor installation when a NACE specialist
inspected the stove in May 2019.
I cant say that Zurich is responsible for all of the upset and upheaval Mrs M and her family
have been through as a result of their home being flooded on several occasions. But I think
its clear that Mrs M and her family were caused serious distress and inconvenience by the
poor service and poor installation of the stove - which Zurich accepts responsibility for.
However, I think the compensation of £2,000 Zurich has paid is reasonable and in line with
awards we make for similar cases, taking into account the actual impact of the poor
installation and handling of the claim. I think it reflects the seriousness of Zurichs failings.I realise Mrs M is very disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons Ive given, Im not 
upholding her complaint as I think Zurich has done enough to resolve it. So Im not asking it 
to increase the compensation its already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman