DRN-4508361
The complaint
Through a representative, Mr G complains that Gate Capital Group Ltd (which was at that 
time known as Plutus Group) unsuitably advised him to transfer his personal pensions to an 
Intelligent Money SIPP in order to access a portfolio managed on a discretionary basis by 
Organic Investment Management (OIM).
What happened
On 15 & 20 June 2016, Gate wrote to Mr Gs existing pension providers (Scottish Widows
and Phoenix) from its central email address requesting policy information and enclosing a
letter of authority signed by Mr G, detailing its FCA registration number.
The responses it received confirmed that the Scottish Widows plan was invested in Pension
Portfolio Two with a value of £56,207. Its Annual Management Charge (AMC) was 0.45%.
There were 73 funds to choose from with a maximum of 10 at any time.
The Phoenix plan was invested in a with-profits fund and had implicit annual charges of
1.27% (including the policy fee) if it grew at the regulators middle projection rate. It was
based on a guaranteed basic sum of £2,781 to which accrued bonus of £927 had been
added, but was then reduced for early payment. Including a terminal bonus of £666 the
amount payable was £2,875.
Gate also obtained an Intelligent Money (IM) illustration on 22 August 2016. It then wrote to
Mr G on 2 September, enclosing two suitability reports, an IM SIPP application and a
disclosure form for Valbury, the custodian of the OIM discretionary portfolio. The reports
noted the below about Mr G:
He was 46 and divorced with 2 dependent children aged 11 and 9
He had recently been made redundant and was using his savings to support his
lifestyle
He was in good health
Core household expenditure was £2,884 per month and total expenditure was £3,067
per month
Assets were recorded as £32,000 cash, £28,000 ISAs and £50,000 Premium Bonds
Liabilities were recorded as a £3,000 credit card
He also held a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension projected to pay him
£5,850pa at age 65
If Mr G was entitled to a full state pension it would be £8,093pa at age 67
Gate also recorded that Mr G had a Medium High attitude to risk (5 on a scale from 1-6
where 1 was No risk), based on the results of its questionnaire. He had confirmed that the
two personal pensions were an important part of his retirement planning but was willing to
put them at risk in exchange for potential growth. So, he could afford to lose about 18% in
any 12-month period without it significantly impacting on his standard of basic living in
retirement. He had experience of investing in this way as his Scottish Widows policy had an
element invested in shares.
His objectives were recorded as:
To understand how pensions work and what they are worth
To achieve better growth than from his current pension plans
To take tax free cash at 55 and then retire at 65, taking income as required
He would require an approximate income of £24,000pa for core expenditure at age 65
To provide better and more flexible death benefits for his two children
To receive ongoing advice
One report advised Mr G not to transfer his DB pension. The second report advised him to
transfer his two personal pensions to an IM SIPP and invest in OIMs discretionary portfolio.
It appears to be partly because of the existing plans inability to facilitate charges for ongoing
advice from the fund that a transfer was recommended. But also because neither plan
allowed drawdown of income when the time came to do that.
Gate highlighted that a SIPP would allow him control over his funds and the opportunity to
outperform his existing investments, plus provide for his children better on his death 
including by successor drawdown. Under a drawdown strategy the adviser estimated that
Mr Gs funds could sustain an income of £11,790pa for him until age 100, based on annual
returns of 5.88% net of charges. So, he would only be short of his retirement objective by
£2,466pa. This was why additional monthly contributions were recommended.
However the new SIPP was more expensive to run overall than his existing plans for
reasons including the £150 annual charge to IM. Gate said that this was a better option than
a stakeholder pension which had a cap on its charges, but didnt allow access to a
discretionary manager or beneficiary drawdown.
Gate indicated it had carried out due diligence into using OIM as a discretionary manager. It
highlighted this was a boutique investment house, didnt manage its own funds and wasnt
constrained in its investment selection. Although it acknowledged OIMs overall cost
could be higher than others in the marketplace, it considered the selection was justified by its
approach to researching and analysing investments, and acting entirely independently by
making decisions without emotional ties via automated assessment tools.
The suitability report said OIM mapped Mr Gs attitude to risk across to its Ambitious
model portfolio. A very recent factsheet was provided for this portfolio which indicated that it
would be invested as follows:
Corporate bonds 34.4% Market neutral 19%
Developed markets equities 25.2% Commodities 8%
Emerging markets equities 8.4% Cash 2%
Government bonds 8.0%[sic - the percentages total 105%]
The factsheet said the portfolio was designed to provide long-term growth by investing in
bonds, ETFs, global equities and UCITS funds. It was designed to move dynamically to
adjust to major trends within the marketplace. The portfolio had been established in January
2015 and had performed similarly to its benchmark (75% world equity, 25% global capital
bond) since then, although had outperformed it by about 7% in the last 12 months.
The small print on the factsheet added that A proportion of the portfolio may be in higher
risk securities. A proportion of the portfolio may be invested in funds in which Organic
Investment Management have an agreement to manage such funds. Early redemption
charges may apply to some investments. The investments and services referred to in this
document may not be suitable for all investors
Gate signed a Valbury/OIM SIPP application form on 2 September 2016, confirmingadvice had been given on the suitability of the investments and the risks involved. OIM
charged a 0.25% dealing fee, 0.30%pa ongoing fee and 0.10%pa custody fee. In addition
there was a 4% initial adviser fee and a 1%pa ongoing adviser fee. Mr G signed the
document together with IMs application form on 5 September 2016 with Power of Attorney
to be granted to OIM from 9 September 2016.
The SIPP application detailed a normal retirement age of 65, named Mr Gs beneficiaries as
his son and daughter, stated he was unemployed and detailed a £10 per month contribution.
Gate was also stated on the application form as the adviser, with an address in Kent which
Im aware was the address registered with the FCA for one of its Appointed Representatives
(ARs) at the time. The covering letter to IM stated clearly that the adviser was representing
that AR and his principal was Gate.
On 12 and 13 September 2016, Phoenix and Scottish Widows paid a total of £65,407 to IM.
Forms supplied by Intelligent Money for the Origo Options online transfer system it used,
detail Gate as the adviser for both these transfers.
On 22 September 2016, Gate sent Mr G a further suitability report and declaration page. The
agreed risk profile was detailed as Growth, which was the 5th highest of the 6 risk profiles
detailed. There is no such portfolio of that name on the Valbury disclosure form, where
OIMs Ambitious Model Portfolio (risk level 4 out of 6) has been selected. It appears that
£59,082 was to be transferred into that portfolio.
On 17 March 2017 the same adviser that had signed all of the transfer documentation for
Gate wrote to Mr G explaining that his custom had been moved to the advisers new firm, 
which Ill call H. He followed this up on 18 October 2017 to offer an annual review. The 
letter detailed Mr G was a Moderately Adventurous / Medium High investor and that he was 
invested in the OIM Medium High Portfolio fund, adding This portfolio is suitable for your 
current risk profile. A similar letter was sent on 30 November 2018.
I note that Mr G was still paying his £10 monthly contributions in 2019. IM wrote to him in
March that year to explain that OIM had entered administration, and a portion of the Organic
Bond and Organic Long Short Alpha fund included in his portfolio were illiquid. H had also 
entered administration. But before doing so H had instructed IM to disinvest as much as 
possible from OIM. This meant Mr G held £48,656 in the SIPP bank account and £7,028 
remained in illiquid investments with OIM. It appears some of this was later returned to the 
bank account by OIMs administrators.
The last letter Mr G has from H is dated 3 May 2019. This marks the conclusion of a period 
of correspondence advising him that it had made a claim for the outstanding sum from OIM 
and put him in touch with a solicitor regarding making a claim (through the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme  FSCS) about the management of those funds, because it 
did not intend to apply for a separate Claims Management licence.
On 1 May 2020 IM as trustee of Mr Gs SIPP signed an application to transfer £48,531 from
his SIPP bank account to be managed by A J Bell. An individual holding a controlled function
at Plutus Wealth Management LLP was apparently copied into A J Bells letter of 18 May
advising IM of the same. That firm took a £500 initial adviser charge for reinvesting Mr Gs
money and a 0.9%pa ongoing charge. Despite the name being similar to Gates former
name, Ive been unable to identify a connection in directorships or ownership between the
two firms.
Mr Gs representative complained on his behalf in August 2022 that a transfer to a SIPP was
considered by FCA to be unsuitable for less than £100,000 due to the high fees involved.
And it thought the discretionary portfolio was unsuitable for his attitude to risk.As Gate didnt respond, Mr Gs representative referred the complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service. Gate told us that it had no records of advice given other than a SIPP
application form filled out by an adviser it said was its former appointed representative.
The representative supplied the evidence it had gathered from IM and Valbury to this
service. They added that they had complained to the FSCS on account of OIMs collapse  
and that scheme had been unable to consider its complaint against OIM until completion of 
this complaint against Gate.
Gate also provided the following comments to our investigator which are relevant to this 
decision:
On previous occasions, this service had determined that losses should only be 
calculated up to the point the adviser moved the clients to H (March 2017) and was 
responsible for giving advice. At the most this date should be pushed back by a few 
months to allow the adviser time to make revised recommendations.
Further, we had said that Gates due diligence into OIM as an investment manager 
wasnt defective to the extent that it should become responsible for losses caused by 
OIMs mismanagement of, amongst others, the Organic Bond and Organic Long 
Short Alpha fund mentioned above. So a proxy value should be used for a portfolio 
based on the benchmark it was originally intended to be managed to.
Excluding advice fees, the difference in the middle regulatory projection between the 
Scottish Widows plan and the entire SIPP was £81,400 vs £78,600. This could be 
bridged by the anticipated outperformance in the OIM portfolio.
Mr G could have switched off the ongoing advice fee if hed wanted to, but it would 
be reasonable to expect him to pay an ongoing fee through the Scottish Widows plan 
if advised to switch funds within this plan.
OIM had a proven track record as a discretionary manager and met Mr Gs aim of 
achieving more growth, notwithstanding the slightly higher charges.
Gates cashflow modelling mis-stated the amount payable separately from Mr Gs DB 
pension at retirement as £1,651pa, when in fact the suitability report for this transfer 
projected it to be £5,850pa. So the anticipated drawdown income would likely cover 
Mr Gs entire income shortfall.
The guarantee in the Phoenix plan only amounted to a built-in return of 1.3%pa 
(unless further bonuses were added).
The OIM Ambitious model portfolio matched Mr Gs medium high attitude to risk. 
Gate asked Mr G to accept responsibility for ensuring that the definition of this 
category was appropriate for him at the time.
It has access to details of the reviews at H where Mr G was assessed as having a 
medium high attitude to risk in both October 2017 and November 2018.
My earlier Provisional Decisions
Ive issued two Provisional Decisions on this complaint, on 21 July and 6 November 2013. 
The following is a summary of the overall conclusions reached at the conclusion of the 
second Provisional Decision:
Did Gate provide Mr G with suitable advice?
Mr Gs existing Scottish Widows plan was invested in portfolio two of its four pension 
portfolios, with only portfolio one containing more shares. So, it was broadly the 
same as the 5 out of 6 Gate assessed him as on risk (or the 4/6 for the OIM portfolio 
Gate placed him in).His other smaller pension took a more cautious investment approach in with-profits 
funds. He also had an existing DB pension. Taking all of these into account and 
noting he was a moderate way from retirement, Im satisfied he was willing to take 
broadly a medium risk with his pension provision.
I share the investigators concerns that the advice to switch the personal pensions 
didnt follow the standards expected by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in its 
2008 thematic review on quality of advice on pension switching, including where a 
pension incurred extra product costs without good reason. 
Gates view that the comparison of illustrations didnt need to take the advice charges 
into account was flawed. It is only if a product can be shown to benefit the client 
overall, after the impact of charges, that suitability can be demonstrated. 
The Scottish Widows plan had practically unbeatable low charges and was set up in 
such a way that the portfolio was proactively managed to Mr Gs attitude to risk.
If the new plan had features that were worth paying for, including superior fund 
performance, I would expect that to be demonstrated contemporaneously. It isnt 
sufficient to simply opt to receive ongoing advice and use that as the reason to 
change to a plan that was much more expensive.
I explained why I thought a reasonable estimate would be that the total cost of using 
OIM (based on what OIM itself said) would be about 0.4%pa more than the 0.4% IM 
had already allowed for in its illustration. So the reduction in yield based on all these 
charges  including spreading the initial advice cost over the full term to age 65  
would have been about 2.3%pa: over five times the Scottish Widows charges.
The Phoenix charge at 1.27%pa was still a lot less than IM and with-profits provided 
underlying guarantees, bringing added diversification to Mr Gs planning. The 
weighted average across both policies was much closer to Scottish Widows 0.45%. 
The future ability to use income drawdown wasnt a reason to transfer early and pay 
charges that were this much higher. There wasnt an overwhelming need to have 
funds managed on a discretionary basis. The terminal bonus on the Phoenix plan 
could have been crystallised if desired and more cheaply transferred to Scottish 
Widows, which was already managed to one overall attitude to risk. 
My assertion that the transfer increased the overall costs of Mr Gs pension five-fold 
continued to be disputed by Gate  principally because it didnt think the initial and ongoing 
advice charges should be included in that comparison. In its view this totally changed the 
basis of my decision, as it was possible to overcome this differential with the expected 
superior performance from OIM. In my second Provisional Decision I addressed this point: 
Gates fees appear to have been contingent on the transfer going ahead, to the extent that the 
adviser said to Mr G it wouldnt be able to add an ongoing advice charge to his current plans if he 
remained in those. But Ive already argued that there was no need to move the plans: they were 
substantially cheaper and proactively managed broadly to Mr Gs attitude to risk already. So in 
effect the need to charge for ongoing advice was actually created by moving the pensions and 
not the other way around. That means it is reasonable to take the total cost of the proposition into 
account, including the initial and ongoing advice fees, in line with the concerns raised by the 
FSAs thematic review. 
So, when it comes to providing redress, Im still of the view that the starting position is that the 
losses Mr G suffered from these higher charges, and the performance of the OIM portfolio, all 
flow from Gates advice. Thats what this service would normally award as compensation: we 
dont expect the complainant to pursue each fund manager alleging that theyd made the matter 
worse. The fact that Mr G in this case has tried to pursue OIM with FSCS isnt something Im 
bound to take into account, as clearly I cannot anticipate the outcome of any other action. 
Similarly, we wouldnt look to exclude the impact of the 1%pa ongoing advice charge simply 
because it went to H subsequently and not Gate. Thats irrelevant as none of these losses would have occurred but for Gates advice, because Mr G wouldnt have been in a pension plan which 
allowed them to occur.
Due diligence into OIM
OIM didnt have a track record, so the growth potential was relatively unknown and 
Gate had to be more rigorous in its due diligence.
Gates due diligence was been based on specific questions the adviser put to an OIM 
director between May and August 2016. The adviser didnt simply accept OIMs 
marketing material without question. He went on to check out the pedigree of those 
running the business, and its external compliance consultants.
The adviser recorded his overall conclusions in a summary document which set out 
concerns he had at the time about OIMs balance sheet and separation between 
internal management and the external compliance function. But he felt this was 
mitigated by Valbury rather than OIM itself having custody of client funds. 
He perceived that there were potentially benefits as well as risks in OIM being a 
smaller, more nimble operation. But from what I can see, he also wasnt yet confident 
about what would be the result. His notes show that he was looking to confirm that 
the situation had improved in the next filing of accounts, and that Portfolio checks 
required, at least when performing client reviews. 
In August 2016 OIM provided assurances to Gate that the model portfolios wouldnt 
be invested in non-standard assets and that they would not be managing any funds 
directly; the latter being apparently at odds to the small print on the factsheet. 
OIMs later demise seems to be partly attributable to their decision to do these things, 
but I think Gate was entitled to conclude that OIM didnt intend at that time to do so; 
nor (as I believe has been the case) to increase their charges to 0.75%pa more than  
the upper limit of 1% that OIM implied originally.
Monitoring of the portfolio by the adviser would represent good industry practice. But 
the adviser changed agency on Mr Gs SIPP within six months, and Im not 
considering a complaint about H. I accept that it would have been difficult during the 
brief time Gate was responsible for advising Mr G, for it to pick up on the subsequent 
changes that took place within the OIM portfolio.
In December 2018 OIMs permissions as an investment manager were revoked by 
the FCA, which said it had become concerned not only by the illiquid assets in the 
funds OIM managed itself but also some of the things which the adviser himself 
noted in his original due diligence. This included OIMs low staff count (which had 
become lower still) and reliance on an external compliance function. 
Whilst I think the extent of Gates due diligence enquiries here was reasonable, I 
have to question why it would have been suitable advice for Mr G to go into any sort 
of discretionary managed portfolio as this would involve leaving the significantly lower 
cost Scottish Widows plan. Charges were likely to have the most influence on the 
amount of growth Mr G could achieve.
It was unrealistic to expect any discretionary manager to better Mr Gs existing plans 
by some 2%pa with a broadly medium attitude to risk. 
The redress that would normally result from such a conclusion is that Gate would 
become responsible for the subsequent underperformance of the OIM portfolio  
which it recommended  as part of putting Mr G back into the position he would have 
been in but for its advice. 
Consistency of the ombudsman services decisions
Gate had argued that consistency should be applied between this services decisions, and there was no compelling rationale to depart from a previous decision wed issued that had 
excluded OIMs losses from what Gate should pay; or another that allowed those losses to 
be capped after the client changed advisers. If there was such a rationale, Gate said that I 
should set that out those reasons clearly. 
I responded as follows in my second Provisional Decision:
It is a matter for the ombudsman in an individual case to set out what fair compensation looks 
like for that case. Whilst I understand Gates point about consistency, due to the range of 
competing considerations being weighed up in the judgement of the ombudsman, compensation 
might look different in cases that share some similar features, because two cases are rarely 
exactly the same. In the particular circumstances of some complaints, the performance of the 
OIM portfolio was replaced by an index when working out compensation. That is also an 
approximation as from what I can see, the portfolio didnt go wrong from day one. But in any 
event Gate seems to be mistaken if it thinks compensation has always been awarded this way. 
Gate referred me to two decisions where it says my colleague didnt award any losses suffered in 
the OIM portfolio as part of the compensation. From what I can see, she did do that: there was 
no instruction to replace the value of the OIM portfolio by any sort of alternative index, which 
Gate is asking me to do here. I think this has become confused with another matter, which is the 
question of whether the growing losses are capped at a subsequent point when the consumer 
was no longer Gates client. In some of the cases Gate has mentioned, this capping took place 
before the Organic Bond fund and Long/Short Alpha funds were suspended, which would have 
had a similar effect [to what Gate is asking me to do here] if a large part of the losses in the OIM 
portfolio were excluded as a result.
As the focus of Gates points about consistency are how I address the potential responsibility 
of two other parties  OIM and H  Ive also summarised my findings on those issues at the 
point of the second Provisional Decision, below.
Should Gate be responsible for all of Mr Gs losses?
a) OIMs potential responsibility
Gate had argued that the portfolio only became unsuitable after Mr G had transferred 
his agency away from Gate and OIM began to invest in a higher proportion of 
unregulated products with higher charges.
At the point when Mr G moved to the AJ Bell SIPP in May 2020, the 
underperformance of the non-suspended funds doesnt appear catastrophic. A 
significant part of that underperformance was going to be due to the increase in 
charges I referred to and which I didnt think Mr G needed to suffer.
The FSAs Finalised Guidance on Assessing suitability: Replacement business and 
centralised investment propositions1 (July 2012) highlighted firms not considering the 
impact of additional charges, and said that it wasnt acceptable to shoe-horn all 
clients into the same solution. From what I could see, thats what Gate had been 
doing with all its clients here.
I was struck in Mr Gs case by just how unsuitable the recommendation was, when 
the pension he transferred out of was being appropriately managed to his attitude to 
risk, without a need for annual advisory reviews, for a charge as low as 0.45%pa in 
total. The prospect of Mr G benefiting at all from the recommendation in this 
particular case was vanishingly small.
I thought that Gates advice was given with total disregard for his circumstances and 
exposed him to significant losses caused by higher charges  notwithstanding that 
OIM may have exacerbated that differential in charges further.
1 https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised-guidance/fg12-16.pdfWhat happened with OIM could also be seen as the fruition (albeit not one which 
Gate necessarily expected and to the same degree) of risks from higher charges and 
the liquidity risk of alternative investments that the adviser said in the suitability 
report Mr G should accept. 
b) Hs [and Mr Gs] potential responsibility
H carried out annual reviews in October 2017 and November 2018. All we know of 
what actually happened is that at some point between its November 2018 review and 
IM writing to Mr G in March 2019, the adviser had asked for the OIM funds to be 
disinvested  and the two Organic funds (Bond and Long Short Alpha) couldnt be 
sold, as they were illiquid.
As of 31 August 2017, Mr G already had 6.4% in the Bond fund and 18.6% in the 
Long/Short Alpha fund. By 27 November 2018 he had £17,275 (28.3%) in the Bond 
fund and £13,339 (21.9%) in the Long/Short Alpha fund. 
The FCA had been issuing warnings to OIM since December 2016 but had not made 
those public at the time. Its later Final Notice2 confirms the two funds above were 
suspended on 14 November 2018.
I cannot safely conclude that warning signs that were apparent to the FCA but not 
publicised, would already have been apparent to H at the time of its October 2017 
annual review. That was both because the extent of exposure to the two problematic 
funds had begun low and was increasing over this period, and because Gate itself 
says it wasnt aware of these issues until March 2018.
Potentially a very significant part of Mr Gs losses were caused by leaving the much 
lower-charging environment of the Scottish Widows pension, which was likely a 
special deal Mr G previously enjoyed which couldnt simply be restored by H.
In response, Gate asserted that it had pro-actively contacted all former clients including 
Mr G, and also the former adviser at H directly, to inform them of its concerns about OIMs 
management of the portfolio. It argued that Gate cannot be held responsible simply because 
H simply failed to act on the prompting of Gates contact with him, and his clients.
Gate said it shouldnt matter whether H was unaware of the FCA investigation, if Ive 
determined that the SIPP portfolio was already unsuitable at the outset. On that basis, H 
should have advised Mr G that the total ongoing charges were too much, so that he could 
have moved again to a cheaper provider; at the same time steering him away from the 
increasingly unsuitable OIM portfolio.
I addressed these arguments in my second Provisional Decision as follows:
Gatesprovided a template of two letters it recorded on a spreadsheet as being sent to 16 
clients, who it understands all moved with the adviser to H. I attach the letter templates to 
this [Provisional] decision, dated 23 February and 12 July 2018. Gates also sent us its notes 
of progress it was making to contact each of the 16 clients individually. Mr G is one of those 
clients, and obviously one it was unsuccessful in obtaining a response from. Notably, 12 
clients did respond to the letters and this resulted in their funds being moved from IM (and 
OIM) to a new Nucleus SIPP.
For most of these clients, the process of disinvesting from IM (and OIM) was started during 
April-May 2018 (after receipt of Gates first letter). Theres evidence of some delays in 
disinvestment of between 4-6 weeks. Gates notes say: The mutual funds take between 5 
and 10 days for the proceeds to be returned and allocated to the custody account. Delays 
2 https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/supervisory-notices/first-supervisory-notice-organic-investment-
management-limited-2019.pdf were also experienced where Once trades are settled and correctly allocated to the Valbury 
custody account, Organic create a redemption request for Valbury send monies back to 
Intelligent Money. The last client responded to Gates July 2018 letter, and was still 
extricated into a new SIPP by 17 September 2018  two months before the OIM funds 
became illiquid.
Gate also says it notified the former adviser directly at H with its concerns about OIM. It 
states that it had various conversations with him in the last three months of 2017, including a 
meeting in November 2017, in which Gate informed him it would be writing to clients to 
recommend that they disinvest from OIM portfolios. The subsequent letters saying this show 
Gate clearly did have concerns by at least then about the portfolios. As a majority of clients 
responded to the letters, I find it plausible both that they were sent, and that discussions with 
the adviser consistent with these letters took place.
All of this calls into question whether the adviser, whilst at H, could reasonably wait until the 
next annual review (by which it would have been too late) to discuss this pressing matter 
with Mr G. Its more likely than not he would have known what Gates concerns were, even 
though the results of the FCA investigation werent public. 
Gates spreadsheet gives an address to which letters were sent which corresponds to Mr Gs 
address at the time he took out the SIPP. I noticed that H sent its October 2017 annual 
review letter to that address, but the November 2018 letter to a different one. So, I asked 
Mr Gs representative if they could provide evidence of when he moved. It produced a new 
tenancy agreement dated 8 August 2018 (for occupation from 1 September 2018). As Gate 
had Mr Gs correct address in both February and July that year, and there is wider evidence 
to show he was on a list of people it was writing to (12 of whom responded), I think its more 
likely than not that the letters were sent and received by Mr G.
The first letter is little more specific than saying OIM no longer met Gates criteria. It was 
captioned as urgent, said that Gate wouldnt accept any future claim from Mr G in relation to 
these investments, and strongly recommend[ed] he took advice on alternatives to OIM. But 
it wasnt clear that this was because Gate thought the portfolio was being mismanaged in a 
way that could seriously affect Mr Gs pension, and I think that in order to limit its liability in 
this way Gate would have needed to say this. Gate had originally recommended OIM as an 
investment, and COBS 2.1.2R in the regulators handbook makes clear that Gate cant 
simply restrict a duty or liability it otherwise owes to a client under the regulatory system.
The second letter did go further than the first. Again marked as urgent, it said that Gate had 
carried out due diligence into OIM which had raised some concerns about the service it was 
providing. And what it wasnt accepting responsibility for included any liquidity issue with the 
investments. Bearing in mind that Gate couldnt actually provide advice to Mr G as he was 
no longer its client, I think this broadly did enough to highlight there were matters of sufficient 
concern that he should speak to the adviser at H without further delay.
Im also now satisfied that the action Gate took with those clients who did respond to the 
letters shows that the adviser, whilst at H, would have been capable of moving Mr G into 
something more suitable before the Organic Bond and Organic Long Short Alpha funds were 
suspended. As the number of Gates former clients still with the same adviser and yet to 
move funds doesnt appear to be substantial, I no longer think its likely that the suspension 
date would simply have been moved forward and thwarted their attempts to move. 
On balance, I now think it probable that Mr G could still have left the OIM portfolio in time, 
and it would have been reasonable  based on the letters Gate sent  for Mr G to approach 
H (or if he preferred, Gate, or another adviser) seeking that advice. So, I accept that there is 
now a case for attributing more of a responsibility to the adviser (and Mr G himself) to act, 
than I did in the first Provisional Decision.The actual content of the review letters H did send to Mr G is also revealing. The October 
2017 annual review said that the OIM portfolio was still appropriate but discussed a change 
to the risk rating system H was using for clients, and a need to have a meeting to assess 
Mr G for the new system. The November 2018 annual review letter was almost identical, 
referring back to Mr Gs original objectives (when at Gate) for this portfolio and making no 
reference to any meeting that had happened since October 2017. From what Mr G has sent 
us, statements of the OIM portfolio were only sent to him at these times: one dated 31 
August 2017 and one dated 27 November 2018.
It doesnt therefore seem that Mr G hadnt engaged further with H, despite receiving these 
invitations which hes sent to us. I cant dismiss the possibility that the adviser might have 
sent them more as a means of justifying the collection of his annual charge, rather than any 
intention of giving further advice unless Mr G was proactive in seeking it  as the letters do 
make a point of reminding Mr G that the adviser is collecting this charge. And its particularly 
striking that the letter in late November 2018 was unchanged, even though by that point the 
adviser should not only have been known of the problems with the portfolio (from Gate 
directly or through mutual clients), but also that the Organic Bond and Organic Long Short 
Alpha funds had already been suspended for two weeks. 
For the November 2018 letter to be almost identical to the October 2017 one  despite the 
changing circumstances  obviously invites some serious questions, but those are not for 
me to answer in this decision. As a result, its difficult to tell even what would have happened 
if Mr G had contacted the adviser at H at least after Gates July 2018 letter, which I think it 
would have been reasonable for him to do  particularly as he had already paid to get advice 
from H. I cant exclude the possibility that the adviser would have maintained that the OIM 
portfolio remained suitable for Mr G, but he would have had to justify why the concerns raise 
by Gate in its letter werent valid. And in any case, as such advice would have proven to be 
misplaced it would then have given Mr G cause for complaint against H. 
Gate argues that if I consider the recommendation of OIM was unsuitable, then it was 
equally unsuitable when H took over the portfolio within six months of Gate setting it up, so H 
should immediately have recommended Mr G move away from the portfolio. But this misses 
the point that the reason I thought the portfolio was unsuitable was because it was part of an 
overall switch to the SIPP that was unsuitable on a more widespread basis. 
If H gave Mr G advice again soon after he became his client, it would no longer be 
comparing the cost of his SIPP and DFM arrangement with the much lower cost and 
availability of managed funds in the pension plans Mr G had left the previous year. Mr G 
couldnt simply to back into the GPP he had with a special discounted charge of 0.45%pa. H 
would have had to repeat the exercise Gate should have carried out when it gave its advice 
 of assessing the overall cost (including any initial advice charge) of potentially switching 
providers again. 
As I said in my [first] Provisional Decision, Im not in a position to conclude that H should 
have switched Mr G out of the OIM portfolio at a point before Gate itself was writing to clients 
saying it had concerns about this portfolio. That would make no sense. Realisation of this 
would have been a gradual process: in my [first] Provisional Decision I looked at the 
worsening position in the asset split in the OIM portfolio between 31 August 2017 and 27 
November 2018. 
I dont have any more information than this to go on, but Ive taken into account everything 
Gate has said about its meeting with the adviser and the letters it sent to mutual clients. I 
havent been able to safely conclude that this advice from H (or anyone else) would have 
been triggered any sooner than around July 2018  when Mr G received Gates second 
letter, emphasizing more clearly the need for him to act. In effect its Mr Gs failure to 
mitigate his potential loss by seeking that advice from this point onwards that results in the calculation of compensation being capped. To allow a reasonable period for advice to be 
taken Im going to take the date of Gates second letter to Mr G and add one month  
resulting in the date of 12 August 2018 for the calculation to be capped.
Responses to my second Provisional Decision
Mr Gs representative responded that Mr G didnt recall receiving the letters from Gate dated 
23 February and 12 July 2018. He keeps all correspondence received and those arent 
there. He doubts these letters were sent. It added that Mr G would prefer compensation paid 
in cash because he required it to pay his representatives fees.
Gate responded under two main headings as follows:
Suitability
It continues to disagree that that the 4% and 1%pa adviser fees were contingent on a 
pension switch taking place. The advisers statement that the existing plans couldnt 
facilitate the ongoing adviser charge makes no difference, as it simply means the 
ongoing charge would have had to be paid outside the plans. 
The suitability report clearly highlights that Mr G could have chosen to pay the initial 
and ongoing adviser fees himself but had elected to have them paid from his pension 
fund. 
The 1% adviser fee could be shut off at any time, if Mr G decided not to take 
advantage of ongoing advice given that his Scottish Widows pension had over 50 
funds to choose from.
Consistency
Consistency on decision making suggests that this service should apply the same 
principles as it did in another decision I made because it addressed the same issue 
of OIMs mismanagement. 
Gate cannot understand why I appear to have changed my mind about the 
appropriate approach, and it is not fair or reasonable to do so.
It continues to refer to a decision made by my colleague where Gates liability was 
capped shortly after the appointment of the new adviser in May 2017  even though it 
relates to similar circumstances (in that the proposed SIPP was deemed to be higher 
costing than the existing arrangements). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fundamentally, I think Gate gave Mr G unsuitable advice to leave his existing pension plans 
because of the increase in charges. However this is looked at, the charges increase was 
considerable because Mr G already enjoyed such low charges in the Scottish Widows policy 
which formed the vast majority of his pension provision. It is relatively rare to see overall 
charges for a policy with funds that are proactively managed as low as this. This is the key 
point from which my initial conclusions on suitability follow.
Gate is disputing whether the increase was as much as five-fold, compared with the charges 
Mr G would have had to pay if Gate had advised him to remain in the same funds in his 
existing pension and charged him for that advice. To address the 1%pa ongoing advice 
charges first, the FSA had explained the purpose of its thematic review of pension switching 
in 2008:The project was undertaken because we were concerned about the risk that consumers 
may have been switched into higher charging pensions with features or additional flexibility 
they did not need.
Ongoing investment advice 
Where an asset allocation approach has been recommended, the scheme needs to be 
reviewed periodically and rebalanced where necessary, to ensure it continues to be suitable. 
Otherwise, a portfolio made up of individual funds to meet a certain asset allocation will 
become unbalanced over time and this may mean the solution no longer meets the 
customers attitude to risk and personal circumstances. The same risk applies when funds 
with different risk profiles are used. In order to be suitable in these cases, the adviser has to 
explain the importance of such reviews, or offer them, or put them in place.

We use the expression asset allocation approach to cover the situation where the adviser 
recommends a spread of individual funds (each usually investing in a single asset class or 
sector) to meet an asset allocation profile that is suitable for the customers ATR and 
personal circumstances.
Mr Gs existing pensions didnt take this asset allocation approach that required ongoing 
advice: they were both being automatically rebalanced by the insurers. So I dont accept that 
Gate advising Mr G to stay in those policies and funds  which is the advice I think it should 
have given him  necessitated the sale of an ongoing review service. I dont think Gate 
would have been treating Mr G fairly to insist he took up that service and in any event its 
much more likely Mr G would have cancelled it as there would have been no apparent 
benefit to it. 
Turning to the initial charge, I accept that Gate cant be expected to provide its advice for 
free, but many advisers did operate at that time on a contingent charging basis (meaning, 
the charges taken from those clients who went ahead with a recommendation cross-
subsidised those who did not).
Gates suitability report says Mr G had chosen to pay the charges for its recommendation of 
the SIPP by deduction from the plan  rather than paying them in cash. As this report is 
predicated on Mr G going ahead with the SIPP, those charges include the cost of actually 
arranging the SIPP and I dont think are compelling evidence of what Gate would have 
sought to charge him if it had decided it couldnt support a transfer at all. 
Neither Gate nor Mr G has produced a terms of business document signed by Mr G  with 
Gate initially telling Mr Gs representative that it had no paperwork for the sale of Mr Gs 
transfer at all. Ive seen the standard terms of business document Gate used at the time on 
other cases and note that the 4% Mr G was charged here is referred to in these as a 
percentage of the amount you invest and/or transfer. The terms of business go on to 
suggest that Gate had the right to charge a one-off fee of £500 for a consultation.
So, it's not entirely clear to me how Gate would have been able to justify on a fair and 
reasonable basis, charging 4% of Mr Gs transfer value (£2,600) for the work that would be 
necessary to establish that the charges and fund selection in his current plans best met his 
needs; confirming to him that he should stay in those plans; and thereby not incurring the 
additional cost of arranging a SIPP. It looks to me that this is where the £500 cost of a 
consultation might have applied, as I think Gate would have had difficulty securing £2,600 
from Mr G for advice to remain where he was  particularly if he hadnt signed something 
unequivocally stating this would be the charge in advance. 
But even if Im wrong on that, even a 4% initial charge alone, when spread out over the 
whole term to Mr Gs planned retirement at age 65 (nearly twenty years from the advice), 
wouldnt materially alter the conclusion Ive reached that the SIPP and discretionary management arrangement was substantially more expensive than Mr Gs existing plans. So, 
I dont agree with Gate that my conclusions on suitability are fundamentally altered by its 
assessment of the overall financial impact of him transferring.
In any case the selection of a particular method of redress in this complaint isnt determined 
by whether the increase in charges was five-fold, or a lower multiple. Im required to review 
all the circumstances of the complaint to decide whats fair and reasonable. I took into 
account the unsuitability of the advice Gate gave to Mr G, the impact that other parties (H, 
OIM and Mr G himself) had on the end result, but also the inherent limitations in the methods 
of redress Gate would prefer me to use. 
Specifically, Ive considered that replacing OIMs performance with an index from day one 
runs contrary to the fact that Gates adviser recommended this discretionary manager 
despite it being a recent entrant into the market with a different compliance structure and 
unproven performance. I havent said that these features made OIM an inappropriate 
selection in and of itself (if Mr G had required a SIPP, which Im not persuaded he did). But 
one of my reasons for concluding this was that the adviser had written in his due diligence 
report for Gate that OIM would require more careful monitoring in view of these features. 
Gate went on to do that monitoring after the adviser left (if not for Mr G, for its other clients), 
and it subsequently did identify some concerns. All of these actions are consistent with Gate 
accepting responsibility, as I think it reasonably should, for its choice of discretionary 
manager when the adviser worked for Gate. Ive already said Gate (and H) couldnt have 
known from day one that OIM was going to depart from its mandate. If there were already 
signs of this from the very beginning, I wouldnt have concluded that OIM was an appropriate 
selection of discretionary manager in the first place. 
Ive reached the view that this departure from the mandate happened gradually over time 
such that it was apparent to Gate, by the time that it wrote to Mr G in mid-2018, that action 
needed to be taken. So as Ive already explained, it follows that I havent found reason to 
conclude that the adviser, when at H six months after the sale, should already have been 
advising Mr G to switch back out of the plan and discretionary manager hed only recently 
selected when at Gate  particularly when it wasnt straightforward for Mr G to return to his 
previous scheme charging only 0.45%pa. That moment would reasonably have come later.
All of these features of this case mean that, in my view, it represents fair compensation for 
Gate to initially have responsibility for the performance of the OIM portfolio it recommended 
as suitable for Mr G, and for that not to be immediately stopped when H became the adviser 
on Mr Gs SIPP. 
Gate appears to be objecting that my view of these changes in the OIM portfolio happening 
gradually after H took over as Mr Gs adviser, is a new item in my decision-making. The 
decision-making process has been iterative, or I would not have been issuing Provisional 
Decisions at all. I make no apology for refining my thinking as the case has progressed. Im 
not bound by previous decisions Ive issued on other complaints, nor those of my 
colleagues. Beyond what Ive already said in the Provisional Decisions, this decision is not 
the vehicle to rehearse any further why decisions were reached in other complaints. 
Ive also carefully considered Mr Gs comments in response to the second Provisional 
Decision. Hes clear in his view that he ought to have copies of Gates letters of 23 February 
and 12 July 2018 if they were sent to him, as hes kept copies of other correspondence 
relating to the advice Gate gave him. I realise that I must be persuaded on balance that Mr G 
received those letters for the arguments I made in my second Provisional Decision to apply  
namely, that he ought to have acted to mitigate his loss by 12 August 2018.
I dont doubt that Mr G has made every effort to remember if he got these letters, or that he doesnt have them to hand now. However Ive found the evidence Gate provided of its 
collation of responses from other clients to these letters persuasive, for the reasons I 
explained in my second Provisional Decision. I have more evidence than just letter templates 
and addresses they were sent to. The wider evidence suggests that Gate did indeed write to 
these clients and was successful in extricating some of them from the OIM portfolio when 
they responded to its letters.
So on balance, having weighed up what Mr G has said with the evidence Gate has provided, 
Im satisfied on balance that Gate sent these letters to him. And as Gate had Mr Gs correct 
address at the time, they would more likely than not have been received. I therefore remain 
of the view that its appropriate to cap this part of the calculation on 12 August 2018.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr G as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think Mr G 
would likely have remained with his previous providers.
Gate should ask Scottish Widows to include a £12.50 monthly contribution including tax 
relief from 8 November 2016 until 8 August 2018 when requesting a notional value as at 12 
August 2018 from that provider. Gate should also ask Phoenix to provide a notional value if 
Mr Gs with-profits investment with that provider had continued until 12 August 2018.
To the extent that either provider cannot provide part or all of the valuations on this basis, 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index may be substituted to determine 
the necessary part of these notional values.
Ive chosen this index because Mr G wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some 
investment risk. The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. Although it 
is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is close enough 
to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr G's circumstances 
and risk attitude.
Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable, taking all of the above into 
account and given Mr G's circumstances and objectives when he invested. To compensate 
Mr G fairly, Gate Capital Group Ltd must:
Compare the actual value of Mr G's SIPP on 12 August 2018 with the combined 
notional values set out above. If the actual value is greater than the combined 
notional value, no compensation is payable. If the combined notional value is greater 
than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, this must then be adjusted up to the date of my Final Decision, 
again using the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index, which I 
consider remains appropriate for the same rationale given above.
Gate should pay into Mr G's pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of the 
adjusted loss at the date of my Final Decision. Its payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Gate is unable to pay the compensation into Mr G's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr G wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Mr 
G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction 
would equal 20%. As Mr G would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 15%.
In addition, Gate must pay Mr G £200 for inappropriate pension switching and 
investment advice that has resulted in unnecessarily high charges and less 
appropriate investments than his original providers, which has caused him undue 
distress.
Gate must provide the details of the calculation to Mr G in a clear, simple format.
Mr G will presumably have been notified by his representative in accordance with CMCOB 
4.2.9R that in the case of pension-related claims, its fee may become payable before he has 
access to his pension, and he will where necessary need to pay its fees from his own funds. 
If he hasn't been notified then it's a matter between him and his representative. This doesn't 
provide a reason for me to depart from our usual approach to redress which is, as far as is 
possible, to restore the missing funds to Mr Gs pension plan.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint and require Gate Capital Group Ltd to pay him compensation as 
set out in the steps above. If compensation is not paid within 28 days of Gate receiving 
Mr Gs acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of that decision to the date of payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman