DRN-2214669
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC are withholding information that he has 
requested under a subject access request, and that he believes they hold.    
What happened
Mr H previously made a complaint to Barclays in 2019 regarding his account being locked. 
This investigation was concluded following a referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Following the conclusion of this investigation Mr H made a request to Barclays for the 
evidence of his online banking log on history for the period 8-9 April 2019. This time period 
was relevant to the previous investigation. 
Barclays provided Mr H with print outs of log on data which covers the period up to 19.50 on 
8 April 2019, and from 20.50 on 9 April 2019. Mr H tells us that Barclays have not provided 
him with the full data that they hold, because data is missing for the late evening of 8 April 
and the early part of the day of 9 April. Mr H has told us that this is when Barclays alleged in 
the previous case that Mr H had attempted to log on using incorrect information and was 
locked out of his account. Mr H considers that Barclays have the information but are 
withholding it from him.  
Barclays have provided us with the records they currently hold, which are the same as those 
provided to Mr H. They have told us that they do not hold any further records. This is 
because log on data for online banking is only held for 90 days. They are unable to look 
back any further than that, so they are unable to obtain it now, some 18 months afterwards. 
The data provided to Mr H for 8 and 9 April is the data that they had on file because it was 
saved during the course of the previous investigation. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Hs complaint and has decided that Barclays do 
not need to do anything further.  This is because she has accepted Barclays evidence that 
they do not hold the data for more than 90 days back. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  Mr 
H has also suggested that the data should be kept for longer than 90 days.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also viewed Mr Hs previous complaint file to see what information was provided. 
I have not upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Firstly, I would like to make it clear that I am not, in this case, considering the issues that we 
previously looked at in 2019 which gave rise to Mr Hs subject access request.  
What I have to decide is in this case only relates to the request made by Mr H for the log on 
data. I need to consider whether it is likely that Barclays hold this information, and if so, 
whether they have could have provided it to him. 
I have seen the log on data sent to Mr H. I have also seen screen shots provided by 
Barclays which show that they are unable to provide log on data more than 90 days old. I 
have no reason to doubt that is all they hold on their systems or to conclude that they hold 
any more information than they have already provided.
While I understand Mr Hs point about the fact Barclays was able to provide the surrounding 
data, this isnt itself evidence that the bank still held the records he sought. The extracts are 
for specific dates and times, which suggests they were produced separately and are not a 
continuous single report. 
In addition, on viewing Mr Hs previous file I can see that log on data for 8 and 9 April was 
provided in its entirety by Barclays as part of the previous investigation, including for the 
time period that Mr H is now asking Barclays to provide. I also note that with Barclays 
consent we sent all the call data from our records to Mr H at the conclusion of his previous 
case in January 2020. Mr H is therefore already in possession of the data that he is asking 
Barclays to provide and was in possession of it when he made his request. I am therefore 
not persuaded Mr H has been inconvenienced by Barclays inability to provide him with the 
data and in those circumstances, an award for inconvenience is not appropriate.  
Mr H has also expressed some concerns about whether the data should be retained for 
more than 90 days. He has not pointed to any regulation or guidelines supporting a minimum 
retention period for such data, and it is not for me to set such a period. The Information 
Commissioners guidance to businesses says that the General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR) leaves it for businesses to judge how long they should retail personal data. But in 
the interest of clarity, Im not persuaded Barclays has acted unfairly by deleting the data 
when it did.  
My final decision
I will not therefore be asking Barclays Bank UK Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman