DRN-3346232
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect them when they 
were deceived into sending money to a relative for his own gain. In total they have lost 
£260,000.  
On bringing their complaint to us, Mr and Mrs N were represented by their daughter Mrs B. 
More recently this has changed to another daughter, Ms N. But for the purposes of this 
decision, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs N throughout as they are the complainants. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to all parties, so Ill only provide an overview 
of some key events here.  
A close relation of Mr and Mrs N, who Ill refer to as L, informed them that he had a savings 
account through his employer (the bank), that would also let family and friends put money 
into it. L told Mr and Mrs N that he received a higher rate of interest on the savings account 
as a bank employee. L worked for the bank as a cashier, but hed dishonestly told Mr and 
Mrs N hed been promoted and so, they believed he was working for the bank as an audit 
director. They were told by L it would be better to place their money into this account rather 
than a regular savings account. 
Mr and Mrs N say they asked L if there was a bank guarantee to protect the money going 
into the account as they were aware banks protect a certain amount. They were told by L 
separate insurances had been taken out by him and so, it would-be risk-free putting money 
into his account. 
Between 2014 and 2017, Mr and Mrs N proceeded to make payments into Ls savings 
account, totalling £260,000. 
Mr and Mrs N have explained they made payments to L when they had spare money to do 
so. Which is why there was a long gap in-between the first three payments they made. Then 
in late 2016, they received an inheritance after a relative of Mr N sadly passed away. They 
were looking to invest the money in another property but say L persuaded them that theyd 
get a better return by putting the money into the savings account. 
L told Mr and Mrs N the interest rate became higher as the account balance increased. This 
is when they made the payment of £135,000 to L. 
For ease I have set out all the payments below: 
Date Transaction type Amount 
21/06/2014 Faster payment £5,000
27/04/2015 Cheque payment £100,000
03/08/2016 Cheque payment £10,000
18/11/2016 Cheque payment £135,000
25/01/2017 Cheque payment £10,000
Total loss £260,000
For completeness, I think it helpful to set out that further payments were made to the same 
recipient for the same purpose by close relatives of Mr and Mrs N. The payments made by 
their relatives were made after those made by Mr and Mrs N. These later payments have 
been considered under a separate complaint reference with us.  
Mr and Mrs Ns close relatives received a visit from the police around mid-2020. The visit 
was in relation to L and it was at this time, the relatives learnt that L was under investigation 
by HSBC. They asked the police about the money Mr and Mrs N along with themselves had 
sent to Ls account. The police informed them no money remained in Ls account. Mr and 
Mrs N were then told the money theyd sent to the savings account was gone. 
The close relatives of Mr and Mrs N contacted HSBC in September 2020, on their behalf, to 
report the loss and ask for its help. 
HSBC having looked into the matter said it didnt feel it had any liability for Ls actions and so 
didnt reimburse Mr and Mrs N the money theyd lost. It added that Ls actions went outside 
of his role at the bank and he didnt have the authority to offer to invest Mr and Mrs Ns 
money in the way that he did.   
Mr and Mrs N remained unhappy and brought their complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things and didnt think HSBC ought to reimburse Mr and Mrs N the 
money theyd lost. Having considered the previous account activity he didnt think the initial 
faster payment was unusual or suspicious that HSBC ought to have intervened before 
processing it. He recognised the further payments made were by cheque and for larger 
amounts. But he concluded that even had HSBC got in touch about the cheque payments he 
didnt think this wouldve made a difference in this case. When thinking about the likely 
answers Mr and Mrs N wouldve given had HSBC asked questions about the cheque 
payments he didnt think the answers they were likely to have given wouldve caused it 
concern or put HSBC on notice that they might be at risk of financial harm. He also didnt 
think there was anything more HSBC couldve done to help recover the money theyd lost.  
Mr and Mrs N didnt accept our investigators view. In summary, Mr and Mrs N feel the 
investigator has made assumptions as to how the conversation wouldve gone had the bank 
got in touch with them about the payments. Its been said Mrs N would have been open in 
giving information that L worked for the bank and that he got preferential rates. Mr and Mrs N 
say the crux of the complaint is that no call was made by HSBC and because of this the 
bank is at fault and should compensate them for this. 
As Mr and Mrs N havent accepted our investigators view, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I am mindful Mr and Mrs Ns representative within their submissions to me has asked 
questions which relate to other actions/transactions L made. But the questions asked are not 
subject to this complaint. My decision here focuses solely on the complaint Mr and Mrs N 
have raised about the payments they made to L.Having carefully considered everything Ive seen and been told; I dont uphold this complaint. 
I will now explain why. 
I think it is important to recognise Mr and Mrs Ns strength of feeling about what has 
happened here. I am aware Ive summarised briefly what has happened and in my own 
words. If there is something I have not specifically mentioned, this isnt because Ive ignored 
it  I havent. I have simply commented on the aspects that I feel are key to this complaint. 
Id also like to acknowledge that Mr and Mrs N have been the victims of a crime here and 
that what has happened has been made even more sensitive given the circumstances 
surrounding the loss of their money and the close relationship to L. I assure Mr and Mrs N 
that I recognise the significant impact this has had on them and that theyve been left out of 
pocket by a very significant sum of money. This said, the main cause of their loss was the 
result of the actions of L who deceived them. 
All but the initial payment to L were cheque payments. A cheque is a written order from an 
accountholder, instructing their bank to pay a specified sum of money to a named recipient. 
A cheque is not considered a payment service under the previous or present Payment 
Service Regulations (PSRs), so the provisions of those regulations do not apply to this type 
of payment. 
A banks principal duty is to obey its customers payment mandate under the terms and 
conditions of the account contract. This position has long been recognised at common law. 
So, if it fails to comply with a validly-executed payment order, the bank could be held liable in 
damages  as could the drawer (i.e. payer) where the payment method used is a cheque.
The starting position is that the bank is expected to process payments that a customer 
instructs it to make without undue delay. So, presented with a cheque drawn in accordance 
with the terms of the contract, a bank must honour the payment unless there are legal, 
regulatory or contractual grounds which may, in exceptional circumstances, allow refusal of 
a payment instruction. 
Here Ive seen no dispute that Mr and Mrs N authorised the payment mandates as they 
issued the cheques to the named payee - L. At the time, Mr and Mrs N intended to pay L 
believing they were placing their money in his savings account which benefited from a higher 
interest rate and there was no mistake made in the execution of the payment  HSBC was 
complying with Mr and Mrs Ns instructions. So, under the terms and conditions of the 
account, Mr and Mrs N are presumed liable for any loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly in processing Mr and Mrs Ns payments, or 
whether they shouldve done more to prevent the payments from being made. 
Should HSBC have done more to prevent the payments?
Having looked through Mr and Mrs Ns bank statements around 12 months prior to the scam, 
I dont think the initial payment of £5,000 was so unusual that HSBC ought to have 
reasonably intervened before allowing the payment to be processed. I say this because, 
Mr and Mrs N have told us theyd made payments to L previously, which is supported by the 
bank statements Ive seen. As theyd paid L before, at the time of making the first scam 
payment, L would have been an existing payee on the account. While the amount is larger 
than the previous payments Ive seen that were made to L, Im mindful that it is not untypical 
for customers to make one-off payments from their accounts from time to time. So, I dont 
think HSBC acted unreasonably in not making enquiries about this payment. 
Ive then gone on to think carefully about the further payments Mr and Mrs N made to L by 
cheque. From what Ive seen, I think it is arguable whether these payments wouldve raised 
concerns with HSBC at the time, when taking into account that the payments werent made 
closely together. The payments were made months apart, with there being over a year 
between the two largest cheque payments. 
And as Ive said above, Mr and Mrs N had paid money to L previously, for example theyve 
told us for university fees. Although, I do appreciate the amounts involved are unlikely to 
have been in the region of the largest cheque payments. 
Im not fully persuaded I can fairly and reasonably say HSBC ought to have been concerned 
that Mr and Mrs N were at risk of fraud or financial harm, for the reasons Ive said above, but 
I do appreciate this is finely balanced. So, Ive gone on to think about what is more likely 
than not to have happened had HSBC intervened. And having done so, I dont think it would 
have made a difference and I think Mr and Mrs N would have continued to make the 
payments.   
Firstly, I think it helpful to acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ns feelings around assumptions being 
made within our investigation of this case. I note the comments made in relation to our 
investigator pre-empting what wouldve been said had a call taken place and that they dont 
see how we could do that. I also recognise they feel the crux of this complaint is that no 
phone call was made by HSBC in respect of the cheque payments and, by virtue of this it 
should compensate them to some degree  even if this is not the full amount theyve lost. 
This service was set up to resolve individual disputes between complainants and business 
and it does not perform the role of the industry regulator  Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). This means I have no powers to fine or punish businesses for its actions or tell them 
to improve their processes. My role here is limited to deciding whether or not HSBC 
reasonably did enough to prevent, or to respond to, the alleged fraud. And if it didnt whether 
its acts or omission resulted in Mr and Mrs Ns loss. And where there is a dispute about what 
happened, and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I need to reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in light of the available evidence.
With the above in mind, even though Im not fully persuaded that HSBC ought to have been 
concerned that Mr and Mrs N may have been at risk of financial harm, I have, in any event, 
gone on to consider what I think is more likely than not to have happened had HSBC intervened and asked Mr and Mrs N about the cheque payments.  Having done so, I dont 
think it more likely than not that there is anything that Mr and Mrs N would have told HSBC 
about the payments, that ought to have suggested to HSBC that they were potentially the 
victims of deception.
Mr and Mrs N say they would have been honest with HSBC about the payments had they 
intervened and asked questions about them. But had HSBC contacted Mr and Mrs N about 
the payments they were asking to make, I think it is more likely than not that they would have 
said the payments were being made to a close relation  L. And while I recognise theyve 
said they would have shared more detailed information with the bank, such as, L being an 
employee of the bank and that the payments were being made to Ls savings account as it 
benefited from a higher interest rate, Im not wholly persuaded that this would have been the 
case. Mr and Mrs N have told us that L was very convincing in what he told them and that at 
no point did they have any reason to doubt what hed said. Im also mindful that as a result of 
what L said, Mr and Mrs N decided to proceed and place the money within Ls savings 
account despite at the time looking to invest the money in another property. I think this 
showed there was significant trust between Mr and Mrs N and L. On balance, when thinking 
about the likely answers they wouldve given, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ns 
answers/information wouldve necessarily reached this level of detail. 
I think HSBC would have been reassured by the likely answers they wouldve given and, that 
this wouldve made it more difficult for it to expose the deception. Especially when 
considering Mr and Mrs N have told us theyd previously made payments to L, for example, 
for university fees. And so, there were previous payments made to the same L, with no 
obvious indication of fraud. I think HSBC wouldve been reasonably satisfied Mr and Mrs N 
knew the account they were asking to pay and that they wouldve been satisfied the 
payments were going to a family member theyd paid in the past. But in any event, even if I 
consider that the conversation wouldve reached this level of detail and questioning, Im still 
not persuaded HSBC wouldve been concerned that they were at risk of financial harm in the 
specific circumstances of this case. 
Mr and Mrs N have said that had contact been made by HSBC it wouldve given them cause 
for concern. But on balance, with all things considered  the close relationship between the 
parties, how convincing Mr and Mr N say L was when asking him questions and, that they 
themselves say there was no reason to doubt L was acting in their best interests  
persuades me that I dont think HSBC suspicions would have been raised by answers 
Mr and Mrs N are likely to have given, to any questions it should reasonably have asked 
about the payments.  
So, even if I consider that HSBC could have done more here and asked questions about the 
payments  I think any intervention by it would more likely than not have been ineffective. I 
simply cant fairly or reasonably say that there would have been enough going on that HSBC 
ought to have been concerned that Mr and Mrs N may have been at risk. 
Could HSBC have recovered the funds for Mr and Mrs N?
Ive gone on to think about whether HSBC did what it shouldve done in attempting to 
recover Mr and Mrs Ns money, once it was aware of the scam. Unfortunately, I dont think 
there was anything more HSBC couldve done to recover their money. This is because, 
when the close relatives of Mr and Mrs N were visited by the police and became aware 
theyd fallen victim to a scam, the police had already confirmed no funds remained in Ls 
account.
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont require HSBC to reimburse Mr and Mrs N. In saying this, I want to stress I do appreciate theyve lost a considerable sum of money, and 
that this has been very difficult and upsetting for them. I also recognise that this has had a 
significant impact on their wellbeing and lives and my findings within this decision do not in 
any way take away from this. But based on everything Ive seen and been told, I cant fairly 
ask HSBC to refund them.
For completeness, I recognise Mr and Mrs N and their representative feel the branch that L 
worked at should be investigated further. While I note their views, carrying out an 
investigation into a bank branch is not within the role of our service. So, this point doesnt 
change my conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman