DRN-2270364
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) supplied him under a 
hire purchase agreement was of unsatisfactory quality and was misrepresented to him. He 
asks to reject it.
What happened
I set out the background to Mr Ms complaint in my provisional decision. But Ill go through it 
again here, so that all relevant information is in this final decision.
In March 2020, Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle to acquire a used 
car. The car was four years old and had travelled around 79,000 miles. When Mr M 
inspected the car, after the finance had been approved, he noticed several minor defects 
mostly cosmetic scratches and dents to the bodywork and some cosmetic damage to the 
rear seat. He also felt the brake pads were low and entered a negotiation with the dealership 
for a discount on this basis.
Mr M says he noticed a ticking noise from the engine. He asked the dealership about the 
engine noise but says the dealership assured him the engine was fine and there were no 
faults with the car. He says he was looking for £1000 discount and eventually negotiated a 
£784 discount. Mr says the dealership confirmed there were no faults with the car, other than 
the minor cosmetic issues discussed. Mr M accepted the dealerships assurances and took 
the car, but within the next few days the engine noise grew progressively louder and more 
concerning.
On 30 March 2020, Mr M took the car for an independent diagnostic at a Mercedes 
dealership. It diagnosed underlying ECU faults which would be potentially costly to
repair in relation to parts and labour and said it could uncover other issues once the engine 
was looked at in detail.
Mr M tried to contact the dealership. Eventually the manager responded to Mr M and said 
the discount was in respect of the engine noise present at the point of sale and the car had 
been sold as seen and so it wasnt prepared to do anything further.
Mr M was very unhappy and complained to Oodle. In its final response dated 28 April 2020, 
it didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said Mr M was aware of the noise from the engine and
agreed to a discount on that basis and that he wasn't entitled to reject the car.
An investigator looked into things for Mr M. He found, on balance, that it was more likely 
than not the car had been misrepresented to Mr M. This was on the basis that Mr M felt he 
had been assured there was no fault with the engine but within days of purchase an 
independent garage had confirmed present faults that potentially would be very costly to 
repair. He thought, had Mr M been aware of this he wouldnt have entered into the 
agreement. On the same basis he didnt find the car to be of satisfactory quality at the point 
of sale and so he agreed Mr M should be allowed to reject the car.
Oodle disagreed. It provided CCTV evidence which it felt proved Mr M had negotiated a 
discount knowing there was an engine noise and that the car was sold as seen. Another 
investigator reviewed the additional information from Oodle. He didnt agree the CCTV 
conclusively showed the detail of the negotiation, whilst the visual was clear most of the 
footage was inaudible. He agreed with the initial view that the car had been misrepresented 
and wasnt of a satisfactory quality. He agreed Mr M should be allowed to reject the car.
Oodle disagreed. It says the video and sound recording provide reasonable evidence that Mr 
M was aware of the engine noise and successfully negotiated a discount on this basis. As 
such it says under section 24 of the CRA, the dealer is not obliged to accept rejection or 
replacement of the vehicle, carry out repairs or accept further price reductions. It asked for 
an ombudsman review.
I looked at all the information from both parties afresh. I agreed with the investigators view 
and I said I intended to uphold this complaint. 
Mr M has raised two issues in bringing his complaint to this service. He says the car he 
acquired was both misrepresented to him and of unsatisfactory quality.
Was the agreement misrepresented to Mr M?
I explained the relevant law says, amongst other things, that the finance agreement 
shouldnt be misrepresented. If it was, and Mr M was told something that persuaded him to 
enter into the agreement, then Oodle, as the finance company, would be responsible and 
would need to take some action to put things right. So, in order to decide whether there's 
been a misrepresentation, I said I would need to look at all the available evidence and 
determine, on the balance of probability, whether Mr M was given incorrect or misleading 
information at the point of supply. 
Mr M says although he noticed a noise from the car, he was told by the dealership that it was 
not a problem and the car had no faults. After an independent garage completed the 
diagnostic testing within 14 days of purchasing the car, its clear the car has faults. I said 
from what Ive seen Mr M wasnt made aware that the car had faults only that it was making 
a noise.  I reviewed the CCTV footage and whilst the visuals are clear the sound quality is 
poor. I can hear Mr M suggesting there seems to be a noise from the car and there seems to 
be some reassurance from the dealership which leads Mr M to say his brother is a mechanic 
and he can look at it. But Im not persuaded that any faults were disclosed to Mr M. Oodle 
have gone on to say Mr M negotiated a discount based on disclosed faults and the car was 
sold as seen. I havent seen any evidence in the CCTV footage or any written evidence to 
suggest Mr M entered into the agreement on this basis. On balance, I said I was persuaded 
that Mr M wasn't informed of the full extent of the problems with the car and I believe a 
misrepresentation has taken place.
Was the car of satisfactory quality?
Because Oodle has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied 
term that the car is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable considering all the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
I said I would expect a second-hand car, such as that supplied to Mr M, to have a degree of 
wear and tear. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I said I would need to be satisfied that 
the car had an inherent defect rather than issues caused by general wear and tear. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs within the first 6 months, theres 
a presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply unless the 
business can show otherwise. 
Mr M had a diagnostic report completed within 2 weeks. This is a car which cost over 
£15,000 and had travelled around 80,000 miles so I dont find it reasonable that the engine 
would make this loud noise, have a fault evident, and require a repair with 30 days of 
purchase. I said I was satisfied that the car more likely than not had an inherent fault at the 
point of sale and as such was not of satisfactory quality and Mr M should be allowed to reject 
it.
In terms of redress, I said my starting point is to put Mr M back in the position he would have 
been in, had he not entered into the agreement. I understand, however, the current mileage 
on the car to be around 82,700 and so Mr M has had some use of the car. I said I agreed 
with the investigators 2nd view that this equates to around 2-month finance payments, which 
Mr M should pay. I also understand Mr M has suffered a great deal of trouble and upset in 
attempting to sort out this matter and it has impacted on his home and work life significantly 
and I also took this into account.
I said I intended to direct Oodle Financial Services Limited to:
-end the agreement with nothing further to pay
-collect the car at no further cost to Mr M
-refund the deposit with 8% interest
-remove the agreement from Mr Ms credit file
-refund all monthly payments except from two which Oodle can retain considering the usage
on the car.
-refund the independent diagnostic fee of £78
-pay Mr M £150 trouble and upset.
I invited both Mr M and Oodle to respond to my provisional decision with any further 
comments either party would like me to consider.
Oodle responded to say it only received the provision decision on 28 September and asked 
for a further 48 hours to respond. I have received no further comments.
Mr M responded to say he accepted the findings in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both Mr M and Oodle for confirming that theyd received my provisional decision. Ive 
re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reviewed the complete file again and revisited my 
provisional decision.
Mr M has accepted the findings of my provisional decision. Oodle hasnt taken the 
opportunity to comment on my provisional decision or to supply any new information. I think 
it has had a fair chance to do this, if it had wanted to do so. It follows, given that there is no 
further evidence that I need to consider, that I have reached the same conclusions as I did in 
my provisional decision and for the same reasons.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold this complaint, and I direct Oodle Financial Services 
Limited to:
-end the agreement with nothing further to pay
-collect the car at no further cost to Mr M
-refund the deposit with 8% interest
-remove the agreement from Mr Ms credit file
-refund all monthly payments except from two which Oodle can retain considering the usage
on the car.
-refund the independent diagnostic fee of £78
-pay Mr M £150 trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman