DRN-2798851
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) incorrectly diagnosed that a 
leaking pipe under her floor was the cause of her boiler fault, leaving her without hot water 
and heating. Mrs As claim was under her home emergency policy which covers her central 
heating in the event of a breakdown.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Great Lakes accepted that the private engineers employed by Mrs A correctly 
diagnosed the fault which its own engineer hadnt done. It asked her to provide a 
copy of the report, for which she paid £45, so I think its fair that Great Lakes 
reimburses Mrs A, along with 8% simple interest.
The cost of repairs was more than the market value of Mrs As boiler. Therefore, had 
Great Lakes diagnosed the fault, it wouldve deemed the boiler beyond economical 
repair. The terms of the policy wouldve limited its liability to a contribution of £500 
towards a new boiler, less any outstanding premiums. Im satisfied that Great Lakes 
offer to consider Mrs As claim under the terms and limitations of the policy was fair.
Mrs A is unhappy that Great Lakes didnt offer alternative accommodation. The policy 
provides for a contribution of up to £150 towards accommodation if she cant live in 
her home for more than 24 hours. For broader reasons, Mrs A remained at home 
over the following weeks. The policy also excludes cover for any costs Great Lakes 
hasnt first agreed to. Im satisfied Mrs A didnt incur accommodation costs covered 
under the policy.
Mrs A would like Great Lakes to cover the cost of new electric radiators and her 
associated energy usage while she was without heating and hot water. As Ive said, 
cover is excluded for any costs which Great Lakes hasnt agreed to and I think thats 
a fair term. Thats because it couldve limited the costs had it known of Mrs As 
intended actions. Im satisfied that payment isnt warranted under the terms of the 
policy.
Mrs A would like compensation for the inconvenience and distress caused by Great 
Lakes unwillingness to investigate the incorrect diagnosis. The evidence shows 
Great Lakes only suspected a leak in the pipework and if the fault happened again 
thermal imaging may be necessary. The policy doesnt cover thermal imaging, so 
Mrs A was to seek help from her home insurance. So, I dont think its fair to say 
Great Lakes was unwilling to investigate. That said, I accept that Mrs A wouldve 
experienced upset and inconvenience during the time without heating and hot water, 
so I think its reasonable that Great Lakes pays compensation of £200 by way of 
apology.
For the above reasons, Im satisfied that Great Lakes made a fair offer to consider 
the claim under the terms of the policy, but the additional actions mentioned here are 
warranted.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mrs As complaint and Great Lakes Insurance 
SE must:
reimburse Mrs A £45 for the cost of the engineers report, plus 8% simple interest* 
from the date she paid to the date of settlement, and
pay Mrs A £200 compensation by way of apology for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
*If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs A how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs A a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman