DRN-1938306
 
The complaint
Mr B complained about a loan he took out with PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender). 
What happened
In June 2014 Mr B took out a loan for £300 repayable in one instalment seven days later. In 
the event, Mr B rolled over the loan repayment twice so it took longer to repay and this 
added to the overall cost.
Rolling over payments means that instead of making the full payment hed signed up to 
make on the original due date Mr B arranged instead to make a smaller repayment of 
interest only. And he put off paying back the amount hed borrowed, plus all the interest he 
owed, until a later date. 
Each time Mr B rolled over payments this cost him extra interest. 
Mr B said that he had already taken out several loans with other payday loan
companies and he had to keep borrowing to cover the cost of repayments. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr B and Mr Lender told us about this loan. 
In summary, our adjudicator mainly thought that given the loan amount, what was apparent 
about Mr Bs circumstances at the time and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been 
proportionate to ask Mr B for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. And she didn't think there wasnt anything in the information Mr B provided or 
the information Mr Lender shouldve been aware of, which meant that Mr Lender shouldve 
taken steps to verify what Mr B had told Mr Lender about his financial circumstances.
Overall, our adjudicator didn't feel shed seen enough to say that Mr Lender shouldnt have 
provided the loan or agreed the roll overs. And although Mr B had been unhappy about the 
way his complaint had been handled by Mr Lender, she explained that Mr Lender hadnt 
been able to locate an account linked to his email. Overall, our adjudicator didn't uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. He mainly said that 
he had numerous amounts of credit with different companies during this time which caused 
him financial difficulty and Mr Lender wouldve seen the extent of his money problems if it 
had done proper checks.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint. 
Mr Lender provided Mr B with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan (or rollovers) irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr B could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Before lending to Mr B, Mr Lender asked him for information about his financial situation, 
such as his monthly income and his outgoings. It also carried out credit checks. 
This was Mr Bs first loan with Mr Lender. So I think Mr Lender could potentially rely on the 
information Mr B provided. Looking at the loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and 
taking into account all the information Mr Lender had on record for Mr B, including what it 
appears Mr B told Mr Lender about his monthly income and what he was paying out, this 
loan looked affordable for Mr B.  
Im sorry that Mr B had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan was difficult for him. 
I accept that in reality Mr Bs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in 
the information he provided or the other information Mr Lender obtained. 
But its reasonable to expect that Mr Lender couldve only decided Mr Bs lending application 
based on the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending 
relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Mr Lender to probe any 
more deeply into Mr Bs finances or ask Mr B to prove what he was declaring or check other 
information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial 
circumstances. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr Lender to lend or agree the rollovers it allowed  
especially as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr B 
wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
Ive also taken into account what Mr B said about the way another complaint was dealt with. 
But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that 
apply in this particular case and what happened on other case doesnt change my 
conclusion here.  
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that Mr Lender did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr B. 
I appreciate that Mr B is also unhappy with the service he has received from Mr Lender in 
the course of it responding to his complaint. Although it is clear this has caused him some 
frustration, overall I dont consider theres sufficient reason to award Mr B compensation for 
this.
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr B but I hope that setting 
out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman