DRN-3722587
The complaint
Mr B complains about a declined Buyer Protection claim with PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie 
SCA (PayPal).
What happened
Mr B bought an item through a third-party seller that he says he wanted to cancel. As the 
third party had already dispatched the item, Mr B says he was told by the seller to reject the 
item on delivery. 
Mr B says he did this but didnt get a refund. So, he raised a buyer dispute with PayPal. 
PayPal investigated the claim, but it was declined. PayPal said it contacted the seller and 
they provided tracking information to show the item was delivered. Mr B remained unhappy, 
so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator agreed that the tracking information evidenced the item had been delivered. 
Following our investigators view, Mr B sent our service a letter written by a delivery driver 
that said the item was rejected on delivery. Our investigator considered this evidence and 
sent it to PayPal but neither changed their outcome 
So, the complaints been passed to me to issue a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
For a Buyer Protection claim to be successful, there are conditions that needs to be met. 
These are listed in the PayPal user agreement. 
Item Not Received claims
Your claim will not qualify for a refund under PayPal Buyer Protection for an Item Not 
Received claim, if:
The seller has provided proof of delivery.
Proof of delivery is defined as. 
Online or physical documentation from a shipping company that includes:
An online and verifiable tracking number
Date of delivery and delivered status
An address for the recipient that matches the shipping address on the 
"Transaction Details" page
An address for the recipient showing at least the city/state, city/country, or 
zip/postal code (or international equivalent).
On this occasion, PayPal have contacted the third-party seller and all the above has 
been provided. So, based on this, I dont find PayPal have acted unfairly or against their 
user agreement when it has declined the claim. 
There is also no dispute that the item was sent to the correct address, as Mr B says he 
rejected it. So, what needs to be decided here is whether the package remained with    
Mr B or the delivery driver took it back. If the parcel had been rejected, Id expect the 
courier driver to mark this on the tracking information instead of delivered. 
Mr B has provided a letter from a courier driver that he says disputes the item as being 
delivered. Although I understand why Mr B has provided this, Im not persuaded this sets 
aside the tracking information. Firstly, the letter was completed some months after the 
item was recorded as delivered. The online tracking information was also completed by 
the courier company and forms an official record of delivery. So, Im satisfied that this is 
what should be used to verify the status of the package. 
Mr B has mentioned several calls that he would like our service to listen to. Although they 
were requested, unfortunately, these calls are not available. So, Ive had to base my findings 
on the evidence that is available, and the information provided by both parties. 
In summary, PayPal have provided information to show the package was delivered, and Im 
satisfied that PayPal havent acted unfairly when it rejected the claim because of this. Mr B 
may now want to raise a dispute with the courier company if he thinks the status of the 
parcel has been incorrectly recorded on the tracking information.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman