DRN-2021221
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly 
declined a claim on their legal expenses policy.
What happened
In early 2020, Mr and Mrs G made a claim on their legal expenses policy. DAS 
understanding of the claim at that time was that Mr and Mrs G had made a loan to a third 
party who hadnt made payments. DAS considered this under the contract disputes section 
of the policy but declined cover, saying the claim didnt relate to the purchase of goods or 
services or the sale of goods  which is the extent of cover available. 
Mr and Mrs G disputed this decision. And on speaking to DAS, they explained that it wasnt 
a loan that they made to a third party  theyd sold bonds. DAS reviewed the claim, but it 
didnt think bonds would be considered as goods. It said goods are tangible, portable 
items. So it maintained its rejection of the claim. It also referred to a policy exclusion for a 
contract regarding a profession, business or employment.
Mr and Mrs G brought a complaint to our service. They said they had taken advice from a 
solicitor who is satisfied they have a contract with the third party. And that bonds would 
constitute goods for the purposes of the policy. But our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She was satisfied that DAS answer was fair and in line with the policy terms. So 
she didnt ask it to do anything to put things right.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with our investigator. They say the contract dispute against the 
company who borrowed money from them as a loan should be covered. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Gs policy says it will cover contract disputes defined as the buying or hiring of 
any goods or services, or the selling of any goods. So to be covered, its not enough for 
there to be a contract  it must be a contract for buying or hiring goods or services, or selling 
goods. 
There appears to be some inconsistency about whether this dispute arises from a loan or a 
bond. Given Mr and Mrs Gs latest email to us, Im inclined to believe this relates to a loan. 
But either way, I dont think its covered under the policy terms above. 
The policy doesnt define goods but the definition of this generally refers to something 
tangible. Whether it was a bond or a loan, what Mr and Mrs G did was effectively to lend 
money to someone else in the expectation it would be repaid at a later date, with interest. Im 
not persuaded this would be classed as goods. Nor were Mr and Mrs G buying or hiring 
services.
Ive also thought about the policy exclusion DAS has referred to which says theres no cover 
for any claim relating toa contract regarding your profession, business or employment. I 
havent seen any indication that this transaction arises out of anything other than a personal 
capacity. And whilst I appreciate DAS comments that the transaction was for financial gain, 
Im satisfied that most sales of goods are for that reason. So I dont think this exclusion 
applies, but Im satisfied that DAS decision to decline cover on the basis that this claim 
doesnt arise from the selling of goods is fair and reasonable. So Im not asking it to do 
anything. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2020. 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman