DRN-4264983
The complaint
Mr P complains that The On-Line Partnership Limited (On-Line) gave him unsuitable advice 
to switch his defined contribution occupational pension scheme (DCOPS) to a personal 
pension plan (PPP) with flexible access drawdown.
What happened
This complaint is about the advice that On-Line gave Mr P regarding his DCOPS in July 
2018. Hed been made redundant by his employer in June 2018. 
This advice followed on from a recommendation that On-Line had given Mr P in January 
2017 when he became aware of the impending redundancy. Mr P was aware at that stage 
that he would receive a redundancy payment around £110,000. And had decided to take the 
maximum amount that he could take tax free as income. Which was £30,000. He decided to 
use the remaining £80,000 redundancy settlement as a contribution to his DCOPS. Which 
meant he had a DCOPS fund around £200,000 when obtaining this advice from On-Line.
In its advice in 2017 On-Line recommended that Mr P transfer the deferred benefits that he 
held in a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (DBOPS) to a PPP. Which meant 
that, when this advice was being given Mr P also had a PPP that had a fund size in the 
region of £290,000 as a result of that transfer. 
On-Line were aware of the following facts regarding Mr Ps circumstances:
He was aged 57 and married with no dependent children
He had no outstanding mortgage having used his redundancy settlement to clear that
He was working two part time jobs earning a total of £12,000 a year
He had no other savings and no other debts
His state pension age was 67
In its written recommendation On-Line described Mr P as having the following objectives:
Wanted to have flexibility to take the income he needed from this pension
Wanted to use his pension to subsidise his part time income to reach a target income 
around £24,000 a year
Wanted to be able to pay for ongoing financial advice from his pension provider
Wanted to have all pensions in one place.
On-Line recommended that Mr P switch his DCOPS to his existing PPP that allowed flexible 
drawdown. And recommended that the transferred value went into the same investment fund 
as the existing balance in that PPP.
Mr P complained to On-Line, via a representative, in 2022 about the advice given in both 
2017 and 2018. The complaint was that it was against Mr Ps best interests to transfer both 
of his occupational pension schemes.
On-Line rejected Mr Ps complaint explaining that it thought Mr P, would be able to meet his 
objectives of reducing his mortgage, replenishing his emergency cash fund, and taking 
flexible income allowing him to accept work at a lower rate of pay.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what happened in 
2017 and 2018 and thought that both of Mr Ps complaints should be upheld. On-Line didnt 
agree with our investigators opinion and this case was referred to an ombudsman.
I looked into what happened and issued both parties a provisional decision. I explained that I 
wasnt minded to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
I thought that Mr Ps circumstances meant that he had a genuine need to fund a 
shortfall in his income after his redundancy.
I had separately decided that the advice to transfer the DBOPS in 2017 was 
unsuitable and explained how On-Line should compensate Mr P for that. But that 
meant that I didnt think Mr P would likely have needed to have accessed that 
pension until its normal retirement age.
Mr Ps decision to take most of his redundancy settlement as a pension contribution 
meant that he would likely need to access his DCOPS to supplement his income up 
to his retirement age. So transferring this to enable him to do that wasnt unsuitable.
Ive had no responses to my provisional decision on this case. But I have been made aware 
that On-Line has compensated Mr P for the loss he suffered from its recommendation to 
transfer his DBOPS in 2017. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have referred to above, Mr P also complained about the earlier advice On-Line gave 
him in January 2017. I considered the circumstances of that case in a separate complaint 
and didnt think On-Lines recommendation was suitable for Mr P. I didnt think it was in his 
best interests to transfer his DBOPS. 
On-Lines recommendation that is the subject of this complaint was given around 18 months 
later. But followed on directly from that earlier advice. Both recommendations were 
addressing how Mr P would be able to manage his financial position following his June 2018 
redundancy. Because of the earlier advice, Mr P had a PPP that allowed flexible drawdown. 
And had a fund size of £290,000. It meant that Mr P already had the means to be able to 
fund any immediate and medium term income deficit following his redundancy without 
needing to transfer his DCOPS in 2018.
But there are very close links between these cases and Ive considered the circumstances of 
both complaints jointly. I therefore think that its fair and reasonable to take into account my 
decision regarding On-Lines 2017 recommendation when deciding what ought to have 
happened in this case. I say that because our role is to try to put a consumer into the 
position they would most likely be but for a businesss mistake. And On-Line has already 
compensated Mr P to put things right regarding his DBOPS transfer. Which I decided was a 
transfer he would likely not have made if given suitable advice in 2017.
On-Line identified a number of objectives for Mr P in 2018. They were set out for Mr P in its 
written recommendation. So I think that Mr P was aware of the objectives On-Line considered him to have. And didnt question or challenge those. I dont think that it is a 
coincidence that Mr P sought financial advice when he was made redundant. I therefore 
think that his most likely motivator was to help him understand how he could meet his 
financial needs following the loss of his main salary. 
On-Lines fact-find of 2016 indicated Mr P had a salary of £38,000 a year from his employer. 
As well as a part time salary of £6,000 a year. In contrast, by July 2018 Mr P was working 
two part time jobs earning a total around £12,000. He had been able to pay his remaining 
mortgage which saved him around £4,000 a year in mortgage payments. But he was still 
facing a significant drop in his available household income following his redundancy.
On-Line determined that Mr P wanted around £24,000 a year in income after his 
redundancy. Given the income and expenditure exercise that On-Line did in November 
2016, this did seem to be a figure that would allow Mr P to comfortably exceed his 
household expenditure. 
Only £30,000 of Mr Ps £110,000 redundancy settlement could be made tax free according 
to HMRC rules. Mr P could have taken the remaining £80,000 as a lump sum but would 
have had to pay tax and National Insurance contributions on that sum. Given his other 
income in that year, much of it would be taxed at 40%. Mr P instead made the decision to 
have it paid into his DCOPS. I havent seen that he was advised to do this by On-Line. But I 
wouldnt expect On-Line to have advised him against it. This decision provided Mr P with a 
means to access that redundancy settlement in a controlled way and meant he was likely to 
end up paying less tax on it. So, as a starting point, I dont think that Mr P would have been 
better advised to have taken his redundancy payment as a one off lump sum in 2018. 
On-Line were basing its advice on, amongst other things, Mr Ps need to find another 
£12,000 a year to complement his income. As Ive already said, the existence of Mr Ps 
existing PPP in 2018, that allowed flexible drawdown, meant that he could already use 
drawdown to meet this objective without switching his DCOPS. But Mr P has argued that it 
wasnt suitable for him to have transferred his DBOPS to that PPP. And in my decision on 
that complaint I agreed with that. And hes been compensated now as if he hadnt done that. 
So, in fairness in considering this complaint, Ive thought about what would have been a 
suitable recommendation for the DCOPS had Mr P been advised not to transfer his DBOPS.
Ive already explained that I think Mr Ps objective of raising an additional £12,000 a year to 
supplement his reduced income was reasonable. And given that Mr P has said that he ought 
not to have had a PPP with a fund of £290,000 in July 2018, Ive considered how Mr P might 
have otherwise met this objective.
He had no access to other savings. He may have continued to have looked for other, better 
paid, work. But that was not guaranteed, and I believe he would quite reasonably have 
wanted to use the pension that was available to him at that time to raise the income he 
needed. His DCOPS fund size of £200,000 meant that he could flexibly take the income he 
needed, varying it in the future if he found other work. But Mr Ps DCOPS didnt allow flexible 
access drawdown. Which means that I think Mr P would, more likely than not, have needed 
to have switched his DCOPS into a PPP that did.
I understand that other objectives were given that On-Line said made its recommendation 
suitable. But I dont intend to comment on these greatly as I find the other objectives to be 
far less convincing. Mr P already had a degree of fund choice in his DCOPS for example. 
And it paid out death benefits in a similar way because it was still a defined contribution 
pension fund. I also recognise that Mr Ps DCOPS offered very good value. Any PPP or stakeholder 
pension would have annual management charges. Which Mr P did not have to pay for his 
DCOPS. But, taken as a whole, I think it was more suitable in Mr Ps circumstances to 
recommend this switch as an appropriate way for him to start taking his benefits, rather than 
the DBOPS transfer. The pension fund was built up in order to provide benefits in retirement 
(or from the age of 55). And it wasnt unsuitable to recommend Mr P use it in this way. 
Ive considered whether the recommended PPP was suitable. It was provided by a 
mainstream provider. On-Line have shown that it considered Mr Ps attitude to risk and 
decided that he had a low to balanced attitude to risk. The recommended investment choice 
appeared to be in line with Mr Ps agreed attitude to risk. So I dont think that the PPP or 
fund chosen were unsuitable for Mr P. 
For the reasons Ive given, and considering the overall sequence of events following Mr Ps 
first involvement with On-Line, I dont think it is fair or reasonable to uphold Mr Ps complaint 
about this pension switch. I think the journey to this point would have been different for Mr P 
if On-Line had given him suitable advice throughout. And the reasons that On-Line gave for 
this switch may not have been entirely suitable following on from its earlier, unsuitable 
advice. But I think that Mr P would still have ended up with a recommendation to switch this 
pension. Only for slightly different reasons. So I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman