DRN-3487871
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc havent refunded money he lost as a result of a 
scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2017 Mr W was contacted by a 
merchant, Ill refer to as B, about an investment. He was told that the investment would be 
made in small trades in currencies and the investment would be over a period of twelve 
months which he said appealed to him. He was given a portal and log in credentials to watch 
his investment and the trades that would be made on his behalf. 
In September 2017 Mr W thought he was making payments to B on his debit card. He sent 
five separate payments all for £5,000 totalling £25,000 but they went to a different merchant 
 Ill refer to as C. In October 2017 Mr W saw that his investments were growing at a good 
rate in the online portal, so he decided to make three further online payments through a 
legitimate currency exchange totalling £70,000. 
Mr W started to become concerned when he saw larger trades (around £40,000 worth) 
placed on the account. He contacted B to query this but wasnt happy with the responses he 
was receiving. So, he started to conduct some research into B and found negative reviews 
from people who had lost their money and were then blocked from accessing their accounts. 
Mr W contacted HSBC in September 2018 for help getting his money back.   
HSBC said it couldnt return any of Mr Ws funds, so he made a complaint. HSBC 
considered the complaint but didnt offer to refund any of the payments. It said he authorised 
the payments and it didnt think a chargeback would be successful for the debit card 
payments. And it wasnt able to retrieve any of the money that was sent to the legitimate 
currency exchange. Mr W remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. He said that the debit card payments to 
C werent sufficiently unusual that HSBC shouldve taken action to speak to Mr W about 
them. But he did think the online payments shouldve been flagged and if they had HSBC 
wouldve likely uncovered the scam. As a result, he felt HSBC should refund the online 
payments Mr W made with 8% interest. 
HSBC disagreed with the investigators opinion and asked for an Ombudsmans review. It 
said it didnt think any of the payments were sufficiently unusual for any of them to flag on its 
system and even if they had it didnt think it wouldve been able to uncover the scam. It 
added that the online payments were made to a regulated currency exchange so there was 
no reason for it to suspect fraud at the time. 
I considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. I said that the payments Mr W 
made were not unusual or uncharacteristic compared to his previous account activity and 
HSBC hadnt treated Mr W unfairly when it decided not to raise a chargeback for those 
payments on his behalf. I didnt think I needed to make a finding on whether the online 
payments were sufficiently unusual here because I dont think HSBC having a conversation 
and providing a fraud and scams warning wouldve made a difference. So, I didnt think I 
could ask HSBC to take any further action here. 
Mr W disagreed. He said the payments towards this scam were unusual compared to the 
previous payments he had made on his account as they werent the same payment type and 
his previous large payments were rare and sent to a trusted solicitor. So, the scam payments 
were rare compared to the rest of his account activity. Mr W added that it wouldve been 
prudent for HSBC to contact him about the payments he made towards the scam here. He 
said the tactics the scammers used were deliberately put in place to bypass HSBCs 
systems and that a call from HSBC wouldve raised his suspicions about these tactics to 
send money in various payments, rather than in one go, and that he wasnt aware he was 
sending money to a currency exchange company. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Im sorry to hear that Mr W has been the victim of 
a cruel scam. I know he feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
It is common ground that Mr W authorised the scam payments of around £95,000. I accept 
that these were authorised payments even though Mr W was the victim of a scam. So, 
although it wasnt his intention to pay money to the scammers, under the relevant 
regulations and the terms of his account, Mr W is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for HSBC to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The debit card payments
Ive reviewed Mr Ws bank account statements in order to consider whether the debit card 
payments he made were unusual or uncharacteristic. I note a payment was made on 
03 October 2016 for £15,000, on 26 July 2017 for £2,500 and then two payments to 
solicitors on 26 August 2017 for £25,000 and 27 August 2017 for £14,187. Id expect HSBC 
to flag any payments that were unusual compared to Mr Ws previous spending, but the 
debit card payments were smaller than some of his previous transactions. And when 
considering unusual payments this service considers all outgoing payments regardless of 
the method used.  
I appreciate Mr W has said the solicitors were trusted to him and that the majority of people 
would purchase a home at some point in their lives and potentially fall victim to a scam in 
similar circumstances to him because larger legitimate payments had been made. But there 
were no available warnings about B for HSBC to update its payments systems with in order 
to flag suspicious payments. As time has gone on and due to the prevalence of scams 
increasing, this service expects more of banks in terms of the monitoring and intervention in transactions. But it wouldnt be fair to retrospectively apply modern day standards to 2017. 
So, I dont think HSBC treated Mr W unfairly by not flagging the debit card payments here. 
As a result, I dont think there was sufficient reason for HSBC to intervene in these debit card 
payments. 
Because the payments totalling £25,000 were made on a debit card, chargeback was the 
only option for HSBC to potentially pursue a refund for Mr W. Whilst there are some 
protections under the relevant chargeback scheme, this isnt a guarantee of a refund. 
The investigator has already set out what criteria is needed to attempt a chargeback, so I 
wont repeat that here. But essentially, the chargeback process is voluntary and run by the 
card scheme whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and 
customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is 
subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback 
can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the 
card scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted 
fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf 
of Mr W.
Unfortunately, a successful chargeback needed very specific evidence of Mr Ws available 
balance and that a withdrawal of an available balance had been attempted the same day, 
but Mr W only had a screenshot showing no available balance left, so he didnt meet this 
criteria. 
So, I cant reasonably ask HSBC to refund the debit card payments here.
The online payments
The investigator said that the first online payment of £25,000 in October 2017 was 
sufficiently unusual and shouldve been flagged by HSBC. Its arguable that this payment 
was the same amount Mr W sent to solicitors a few weeks before which explains why it 
wasnt flagged by HSBC at the time. But I dont think I need to make a finding on this point to 
decide this complaint because Im not persuaded that any intervention by HSBC wouldve 
made a difference. Thats because Ive seen that Mr W was involved in a sophisticated scam 
where hed previously sent payments (totalling around £25,000) to the scammers and 
received multiple communications about an online portal and a one-year project where he 
was told he would be making lower value trades in currency. 
Where a bank identifies unusual payment instructions, Id expect it to ask probing questions 
of its customer, designed to unearth a possible scam. Mr W said that he didnt realise the 
online payments were going to a different company. But I think this wouldve most likely led 
to HSBC looking into the legitimate currency exchange and asking him questions about why 
he was making the payments to a regulated trading company. 
As a result, I think its more likely that if HSBC had flagged the first payment to the legitimate 
currency exchange and spoken to him about it, HSBC wouldnt have uncovered the scam 
and wouldnt have had enough persuasive evidence to refuse Mr Ws payment instruction. 
HSBC wouldve most likely asked if he had completed his own research into B (which he had 
and there were no negative reviews at the time of the payments) and whether he was happy 
to continue with the payment (which he was as he had already invested a considerable sum 
by that point due to the persuasiveness of the scammers and continued to do so over the 
following days). 
So, even after a fraud and scams warning, I believe its most likely Mr W wouldnt have had 
appropriate concerns about this scam until sometime after they were made. And thats what 
happened here  with the scam not being raised until around twelve months after the payments  which is in line with Mr Ws expectations about when he expected to see a 
return. 
HSBC wouldve seen that Mr W was making the payment to a regulated FCA company.  So, 
that wouldnt have given HSBC a reason to be suspicious of that particular payment or the 
ones that followed. Mr W couldve queried why the online payments were sent to a legitimate 
currency exchange by reviewing his statements anytime, before he raised the scam in 2018, 
if he was concerned by that  especially considering the amounts involved here. I think Mr W 
wouldve told HSBC, when asked, that he had been given advice that he was going to be 
investing in low risk trades involving currency  which is one of the services the legitimate 
currency exchange provides which wouldnt have given HSBC any further reason to query 
with Mr W why money was being sent to that exchange. And that this was an investment that 
was going to be over 12 months in low risk trades. 
These arent clear warning signs of a binary options scam. Ive also considered there were 
no live warnings available for HSBC to refer to on the Financial Conduct Authoritys website 
or the International Organizations of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) portal about B or C at 
the time Mr W made the payments. Binary options werent banned in the UK until April 2019 
and the Euro Securities Markets Authority (ESMA) ban on binary options wasnt in place until 
02 July 2018. So, HSBC wouldve had more information to refer to if the payments had been 
made in late 2018 when the scam was raised. And the tactics the scammers used and the 
available warnings are all things that HSBC wouldve been more experienced at looking for 
at a later date. But I cant hold HSBC to a higher and later standard here. I need to review 
the information that was available to it at the time of the payments. 
As a result, I dont think its more likely than not that a fraud and scams warning wouldve 
made a difference here. Sadly, I think Mr W was the victim of a sophisticated scam and I 
dont think theres enough persuasive evidence that HSBC treated him unfairly when it 
allowed the payments to be sent. 
Ive seen that Mr W has told this service that other members of the public have received 
some of their money back from other banks. Im sure that will be a further source of 
frustration and disappointment for him, but I can only consider the circumstances of his 
complaint not whats happened to other customers who hold accounts with other banks.
Recovery of the online payments 
The scam was raised in early September 2018 and a request for recovery of the online funds 
was sent to the beneficiary bank the same day. HSBC were later told that no funds would be 
returned. Its reasonable they relied on the information from the beneficiary bank and I dont 
think HSBC were responsible for any unreasonable delays. 
Its also unlikely that the scammers left any money in its account with the legitimate currency 
exchange. Its very common for scammers to move money very quickly after its received. 
And the scam was raised almost a year after Mr W made the online payments.  
Im sorry to hear Mr W lost the funds to the scammers. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think HSBC have acted unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman