DRN-3188653
The complaint
Mrs C complaints about Amtrust Europe Limiteds (Amtrust) handling of claims she made 
under her building warranty.
  
What happened
In 2014, Mrs C bought a new build property and took out a warranty. While she says she 
expected some snagging issues with a new build, in her opinion the work needed on the 
property was so extensive, it should never have been signed off as complete and ready for 
her family to move into. 
In 2016, Amtrust took over the claim. It responded to Mrs Cs complaints. In the final 
response letter of October 2020, it accepted the claim hadnt been handled well, and offered 
Mrs C £750. Mrs C said this wasnt sufficient to reflect the stress and inconvenience her 
family experienced, or the hundreds of pieces of correspondence taken to get the claim 
resolved. 
Mrs C referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator said there were some 
complaints made by Mrs C that couldnt be considered because they hadnt been referred to 
us in time. But of those the investigator could consider, he thought the compensation offered 
by Amtrust wasnt sufficient. He recommended this be increased by £1,000. Amtrust 
accepted the investigators conclusion by Mrs C didnt. She considered the compensation 
ought to be significantly higher. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At this point, its helpful for me to clarify that whilst Ive considered all the available evidence 
and arguments, my background summary and final decision focuses on what I consider to 
the most relevant issues in this complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mrs C or 
Amtrust. Rather its a reflection of the informal nature of this service. 
Ive considered Mrs Cs views we should be able to consider if the complaint about the 
property being signed off. However, Ive agreed here with the conclusion our investigator 
reached in that the signing off of the property is not a regulated activity.
The rules governing the types of complaint our service can look at are set out in law and are
also set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), within their dispute resolutions rules
(DISP). Essentially, rule 2.3.1 R sets out our compulsory jurisdiction relates to regulated 
activities. It goes on to define those regulated activities.
Mrs C says that she considers two of the regulated activities referring to home purchase 
plans mean this service should be able to consider whether her property should be signed 
off. But I dont agree. Whether a new build property meets the required building and planning 
regulations is not the same as the regulated activities of arranging (bringing about) or 
making arrangements with a view to a home purchase plan as she considers. It follows, Ill 
only be considering whether the distress and inconvenience caused 
Impact on Mrs C
As the claim itself has been now been resolved, what I now need to consider is Amtrusts 
handling of the claim. Amtrust had paid Mrs C £750. It said this payment was made in 
recognition of the obvious inconvenience and stress experienced through severe delays 
and disruption due to the complexity of the claim.  
Its helpful for me to start by clarifying the regulated activity Im considering here is carrying 
out a contact of insurance. Until October 2016, the developer was responsible for putting 
right any defects identified. This first phase is referred to as the conciliation phase. It ended 
in October 2016, when Amtrust then took over the claim.
The claim wasnt resolved until October 2020. Amtrust has provided its claim notes, but no 
further explanation as to why it considers the claims resolution took such a long time. Its 
clear from reviewing the notes that some issues were identified during the remedial works. 
But some issues, like the boiler, were raised by Mrs C early on. 
Mrs C was in almost constant contact with Amtrust to try and move the claim forward. There 
were several people at Amtrust, and its contractors, involved with the claim, and I can see 
there were occasions where delays seemed to be unavoidable  such as the original 
contractor no longer being able to do the works. But there is no denying that from the point 
Amtrust stepped in to manage the claim, it took a significantly long time to be resolved. 
In order for the remedial works to be completed, Mrs C and her family moved out of their 
home for several months, returning in September 2018. And I think what would have caused 
significant disappointment and frustration for Mrs C was at the point they moved back into 
the property, they discovered there were still problems that were unresolved. I understand 
that Mrs C found this very difficult and disappointing at the time. And some of these issues 
seem may have been avoidable. 
I note that having been out of their home for several months, they returned to find a smell of 
sewage, and further problems with the windows. A key example of the works that were 
outstanding at the point the several of the windows replaced during the remedial works had 
drafts. I think it absolutely reasonable Mrs C should have expected for all of these issues 
should have been quality checked and identified issues resolved before her family moved 
back in. As it was, almost a year after moving back in, seven windows were identified as 
leaking. 
Another example Mrs C has talked about was the boiler. Mrs C says she was told by a third-
party company in 2014 the boiler was too small for the house, but Amtrust disregarded this. I 
can see this is mentioned frequently in the notes. These indicated that, contrary to what Mrs 
C considers, Amtrust carried out some checks to determine if the boiler was of a satisfactory 
size for the property. The boiler did end up being replaced for a larger one. Amtrust hasnt 
provided a substantive explanation as to why it took this step so long after Mrs C first raised 
this issue. On this basis, Ive concluded this is a key example of where Mrs C says the right 
course of action was not taken at the earliest opportunity. 
Thats not to say that Amtrust didnt take steps to keep Mrs C updated  there are clear 
examples of where it did proactively contact her to keep her updated. And this was a 
complex claim with a number of issues to be resolved. The starting point of Mrs C having to 
raise the claim was beyond Amtrusts control. However, I think Amtrust could have done more to effectively manage this claim and reduce the impact this complex and long running 
matter had on Mrs C. 
Im satisfied Amtrusts handling of the claim impacted Mrs C. I think its important here that I 
clarify there isnt a formula for making an award for the distress and inconvenience 
experienced by a consumer. Having reflected on the handling of the claim between October 
2016 and October 2020, I dont consider Amtrusts initial award of £750 to be sufficient. 
However, for the reasons Ive given, I consider a total payment of £1,750 fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience that Mrs C experienced between October 2016 and October 
2020 for those issues that I have been able to consider. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Mrs C a total of £1,750 for 
the distress and inconvenience experienced, less any payments already made.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman