DRN-3645433
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy about Revolut Ltds decision not to refund an online card payment he 
made.  He also complains about the customer service he received from Revolut.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mr G says he purchased a single product online (using his Revolut card) from a company I 
will refer to as M in this decision.  He says he believed he would be paying M £89 for the 
product and that it would provide free Wi-Fi for life.  However, Mr G was in fact charged £265 
and received more than one of the products he says he thought he was purchasing.  Mr G 
also says he has discovered that the product does not provide free unlimited Wi-Fi.
Mr G contacted Revolut and asked it to refund him the money concerned.  As this did not 
happen, Mr G raised a complaint which he referred to our Service
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mr G did not 
accept the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Fraud
Mr G says that he made an online card payment to M for a single product amounting to £89.  
However, Mr G was in fact charged £265 (in a single transaction).  Mr G argues that this was 
fraud.
For me to treat Mr Gs transaction as fraud, I would have to be satisfied, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, that it was unauthorised.  That is, the transaction was not 
authenticated and/or Mr G did not consent to the execution of it. 
As Mr G agrees he made a transaction to M (albeit for a different amount), I am satisfied that 
it was authenticated.  So, I will now turn to the issue of consent.
Mr G accepts that he did consent to a transaction amounting to £89, but not for £265.  
Having considered this, I am persuaded Mr G did consent to the £265 as well.  I say this 
because under the 2017 Regulations, the fact Mr G claims he did not get what he paid for: 
does not negate his authorisation of the single transaction he made. In other words, Mr Gs 
belief in what he says he thought he was paying for and the corresponding amount  does 
not mean, under the 2017 Regulations, he did not authorise the £265 transaction.
For the above reasons, I find that the £265 transaction was authorised by Mr G.
Chargeback
Chargeback is an entirely voluntary scheme, which means banks are under no formal 
obligation to raise a chargeback claim.  The scheme operator can ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them.  
However, such an arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed.  My role is to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (in this case, Revolut) acted fairly and reasonably in its decision not to continue 
with the chargeback claim it raised on behalf of its cardholder (in this case, Mr G).
In addition to Mr Gs complaint point about the amount M charged him, he has also told this 
Service, amongst other things: Not only that the company (or rather fraudsters) gave a 
completely incorrect description of the product. They advised the product would produce free 
WiFi for life. As soon as they took the money they advised charges for the wifi.
Based on the evidence before me  particularly Ms defence in the chargeback process  I 
am persuaded, on balance, that Mr G made the purchase amounting to £265.  I am 
particularly persuaded by the payment journey Mr G would have gone through; the checkout 
information he would have been presented with; and the order summary emailed to him 
thereafter.  Moreover, I have not been provided with anything to support that there was, for 
example, an error with Ms website at the time.
Further, it appears that at the time, Mr G asked Revolut to dispute the transaction on the 
basis of the amount he paid  not that he was promised the product would provide free Wi-Fi 
for life.  With this in mind, I am satisfied Revolut raised the chargeback it did on the correct 
basis.
For the above reasons, I do not find that Revolut acted unfairly or unreasonably by not 
continuing with the chargeback process on Mr Gs behalf.
Service-related issues
To my mind, Revolut provided Mr G with the service I would expect in the circumstances of 
his complaint.
As the investigator set out in her findings, it is a matter for Revolut to decide how it will 
communicate with its customers.  In relation to the Revolut App, I find that Revolut 
responded to Mr G in a reasonable amount of time.  In fact, I can see occasions in the App 
where Mr G himself did not engage with Revolut  despite it chasing him.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr G says he was not able to raise his dispute properly in the first 
instance  this was remedied by Revolut in a timely fashion and resulted in Mr Gs 
chargeback claim being ultimately unsuccessful. Finally, I acknowledge Mr G would like Revolut to raise this matter with the police.  However, 
this is not something I would expect Revolut to do  there is certainly no obligation on it to do 
so given the circumstances of this case.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman