DRN-3690876
The complaint
Mr E complains AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited hasnt offered him a fair 
amount to settle his home insurance claim.
What happened
Mr E made a claim after a tree fell during a storm and damaged his roof. Mr E had the tree 
removed and undertook temporary repairs. AA appointed a surveyor, and following the 
surveyors visit, Mr E submitted a quote for the permanent repairs. Mr Es quote was 
£4,020, which included VAT.
AA offered £1,358.60 for the permanent repairs, less the £350 excess, i.e. £1,008.60. AA 
also offered to pay £271.72 for VAT on receipt of a valid VAT invoice. Because Mr E was 
unhappy with the cash settlement offer a complaint was raised.
In response to Mr Es complaint, AA noted that as per the policy terms, if the policyholder 
chooses to use their own contractor, the cash settlement will be limited to the amount it 
would have cost AA to do the repairs. 
However, AA noted it hadnt yet requested Mr Es tree removal invoices, and it had failed to 
provide Mr E with the call transcripts he had previously asked for. To apologise, AA sent 
Mr E £150 compensation.
Mr E remained unhappy about the claim settlement, so he brought a complaint about that to 
our service. Mr E noted he has paid £5,605 for the repairs, so after his £350 excess, hes 
claiming for £5,255. AA has only paid him £2,438.60:
- £1,150 for the tree removal
- £280 for the temporary repairs
- £1,008.60 for the permanent repairs
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. 
Because Mr E disagreed, his complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining I intended to uphold the complaint. In my 
provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es costs
Ill start by clarifying Mr Es costs. When contacting our service, he quoted £5,605. However, 
based on the quotes and invoices Ive seen, its my understanding the correct figure is 
£5,560:
-Tree removal company one: £600
-Tree removal company two: £660
-Temporary repairs: £280
-Permanent repairs: £4,020
The policy terms
Theres a term in Mr Es policy that explains a cash settlement will be limited to the amount 
AA would have to pay for the repairs if it was to use its own contractors. However, AA cant 
reasonably rely on that policy term unless it has offered its own contractor, or the 
policyholder hasnt given AA an opportunity to use its own contractor. 
The offer of AAs contractors
AA says it offered Mr E its contractors during a call on 12 January 2022, but he declined. Ive 
listened to that call. AAs agent explained AA wanted to offer a cash settlement of £1,008.60. 
In response, Mr E explained he thought AA would be responsible for the repairs. The agent 
acknowledged Mr E would like to use AAs contractors, but she noted AAs contractors 
probably couldnt start until around March/April. 
Mr E explained he couldnt get the repairs done for the amount offered and invited the agent 
to provide details of a contractor who could do the work for that amount. The agent advised 
him if he was unhappy with the cash settlement offer, he could provide a breakdown of his 
quote for further consideration. Because Mr E was unhappy the agent offered to raise a 
complaint. Mr E agreed and the call ended amicably.
An offer to use AAs contractors wasnt actually made during the call, and having listened to 
the call, in my view, the agent inferred AAs contractors werent a viable option or indeed on 
offer. The only options given to Mr E was £1,008.60 or to submit a more detailed quote. No 
information was provided to Mr E about the process of using AAs contractors, and nor was 
any reassurance offered about what would happen should the temporary repairs fail whilst 
waiting for AAs contractors to become available. I can understand why Mr E left the call 
with the impression only a cash settlement was being offered.
I accept Mr Es quote provided limited information about the work to be done and how the 
costs were broken down. However, the question of relevance here, is whether Mr E was 
offered AAs contractors.
Mr E called AA again on 29 January 2022. We havent been provided with a copy of this call, 
but Ive seen AAs call notes. The notes show that whilst Mr E was waiting to hear back from 
AA about his complaint, the temporary repairs had failed during a further storm. 
As I understand it, AA offered Mr E a without prejudice payment for the amount previously 
offered, and it told him the issues caused by the further storm may not have arisen had he 
already done the permanent repairs. I also understand Mr E felt he was left with no option 
but to get the permanent repairs completed for the quote he had received. 
Evidently, the reason the permanent repairs hadnt been undertaken yet was because AAs 
contractors werent available, and AA hadnt agreed to meet Mr Es quote in the meantime. 
In my view, AA ought reasonably to have offered to cover further temporary repairs whilst 
Mr E either waited for AAs contractors or whilst he obtained a more detailed quote.
I find it reasonable Mr E went ahead with the permanent repairs given AA hadnt offered to 
cover further temporary repairs, and AA had implied he was responsible for any further 
issues having not yet carried out the permanent repairs. So, based on the information that has been provided, Im not persuaded it can reasonably be 
said Mr E was offered AAs contractor. I also havent seen Mr E refused AAs contractor or 
insisted on a cash settlement. But rather, the cash settlement route was driven by AA. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded AA can fairly limit the settlement to its contractor rates.
The cash settlement amount
Given the limited information on Mr Es quote, I accept it wasnt unreasonable for AA to have 
required a further breakdown before agreeing to meet it. However, as explained above, I can 
also understand why Mr E went ahead with the quote given AAs response so far. So, in the 
circumstances, I consider it fair and reasonable for AA to now settle the claim based on 
Mr Es invoice.
Furthermore, the cash settlement was based on AAs scope of work, and Im not persuaded 
the scope reflected all the required repairs. AAs surveyor reported the roof tiles had been 
damaged across both elevations and the area requiring renewal was approximately 30m2. 
However, AAs scope of work was based on 10m2. 
I also note that whilst AA offered to pay £271.72 for VAT on receipt of a VAT invoice for the 
roof repairs, it hasnt paid this sum despite having received a VAT invoice.
Putting matters right
To put matters right, I intend to decide AA should meet Mr Es £4,020 roof repair invoice, 
less his £350 excess, i.e. £3,670. AA has so far paid £1,008.60, so a further £2,661.40 
would be due. 
AA would need to pay 8% simple interest per annum on the £2,661.40, from the date Mr E 
paid the roof repair invoice to the date of settlement.
I note AA hasnt paid the £110 VAT for the £660 tree removal invoice. Should Mr E provide 
AA with a valid VAT number for that tree removal company, AA will also need to settle this 
amount.
I also intend to award Mr E a further £100 compensation for the upset and inconvenience 
caused by AAs handling of his claim and its cash settlement offer, on top of the £150 
compensation previously paid.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr E also clarified the £45 difference between the £5,605 and the £5,560 figures. The £45 
was for a security camera that was damaged by the tree. However, he says the item was 
later withdrawn from the claim because he couldnt find the purchase invoice. Mr E also 
noted he had provided AA with the VAT invoice for the tree removal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the information that has been presented, Ive reached the same 
outcome I reached in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. Given both parties 
accepted my provisional decision, Ill simply focus on the two points Mr E noted in his 
response. In respect of the damaged security camera, I wont comment on this item given its not being 
pursued as part of the claim and it didnt form part of the complaint. 
In respect of the tree removal, Ive seen two invoices from different companies. One invoice 
was for £600, and it didnt include VAT. AA has settled the £600. The other invoice was for 
£550 plus £110 VAT, i.e. £660. However, the invoice didnt include a VAT number and AA 
has only settled £550. Mr E says he provided AA with the VAT invoice in May 2022, but if 
hes referring to the invoice Ive seen (which doesnt have a VAT number), hell need to 
obtain a VAT number from the company concerned and provide it to AA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited should:
- pay Mr E a further £2,661.40 for his roof repairs, plus 8% simple interest per annum 
from the date Mr E paid the invoice to the date of settlement.
- pay Mr E £110 for the VAT on his £660 tree removal invoice, subject to Mr E 
providing a valid VAT number for that company; and
- pay Mr E a further £100 compensation.
If AA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Mr E how much its taken off. If requested, AA should also give 
Mr E a certificate showing the amount deducted, so he can reclaim it from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman