DRN-1901027
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the settlement offer Aviva Insurance Limited (trading as 
Quotemehappy.com) has made under his car insurance policy when his car was written off. 
What happened
When Mr Bs car was written off, Aviva valued it at £3,560. Mr B doesnt think Avivas 
valuation is fair and reasonable. He thinks it should be increased by £800.
When Mr B complained to Aviva about the valuation, it didnt uphold his complaint. But Aviva 
acknowledged thered been unnecessary delay in its handling of some aspects of Mr Bs 
claim. So it offered Mr B compensation of £100 (as well as interest on the settlement amount 
it had offered). I understand Mr B has accepted this compensation.
Mr B then brought his complaint about the valuation to us. The investigator who looked at  
Mr Bs complaint didnt uphold it. He thought Avivas offer was fair. 
Mr B disagrees and so his complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons I shall give help him to understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Before I explain why Im not upholding this complaint, I should say that, although Mr B has 
said hed like to discuss his complaint with me before my decision is sent out, I dont think 
thats necessary. Mr B has clearly and fully articulated the reasons why he doesnt think 
Aviva has treated him fairly. And I have all the information I need to decide this complaint 
without asking any more of Mr B or Aviva.
My starting point is Mr Bs car insurance policy. This says Aviva wont pay Mr B more than 
the market value of his car at the time of the loss (less his excess). The policy goes on to 
say market value means the cost of replacing Mr Bs car with another of the same make, 
model, specification and condition as his.
I should say my role here isnt to place a value on Mr Bs car. Instead, its to decide if Avivas 
settlement offer is within a fair and reasonable range. We think the fairest way for an insurer 
to decide the market value for a car is to look at the main motor industry guides (Glasss, 
CAP, Cazana and, sometimes, Parkers). We think these are persuasive because their 
valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. As Mr B has noted, the 
guides dont have access to actual retail selling prices but use advertised prices and auction 
prices to work out what likely selling prices wouldve been.  
Ive looked at the valuation report Aviva got from the engineer who assessed Mr Bs car. It 
gave a value for Mr Bs car of £3,560. It says Avivas engineer assumed the car was in good 
pre-accident condition and used the mileage Mr B gave for the car. The report gives three 
mileage-adjusted valuations  from Glasss (£3,040), CAP (£3,133) and Parkers (£3,060). 
The engineer included £175 for some of the extras on Mr Bs car. And the report says he 
also researched the market place looking for similar vehicles to confirm the guide figures 
are a realistic representation of the market. From Avivas case file, it looks as if he found 
similar cars for prices ranging between £3,495 and £4,685 (although I havent seen any 
actual advertisements for these cars).
Our investigator also got valuations from Glasss and CAP, as well as Cazana (as our 
investigator has explained to Mr B, it seems Aviva didnt get a valuation from Cazana). Our 
investigator didnt get a valuation from Parkers because this isnt available online for historic 
claims older than three months. The valuations our investigator got (which included, where 
possible, the modifications Mr B says his car had) were: Glasss: £3,040, CAP: £3,125 and 
Cazana: £3,513.
Establishing the pre-accident replacement cost of a car isnt an exact science. Its usually 
possible to find adverts for cars for sale at a much higher figure than someone would 
actually have to pay if they shopped around. Ive seen the adverts Mr B sent Aviva for similar 
cars advertised at higher figures. But we find advertised prices are generally less reliable 
than the motor trade guides Ive referred to. As in this case, they often vary widely and also 
tend to have a margin built in for negotiating the price down.
So, based on our research, and looking at how Aviva has approached Mr Bs claim, Im 
satisfied the amount Aviva has assessed to settle Mr Bs claim is fair and reasonable, takes 
into account the specification of Mr Bs car and is in line with the terms of his car insurance 
policy. 
Ive carefully considered all of Mr Bs comments on this complaint  including his views on 
the motor trade guides. But they dont change my findings on his complaint. I can also see 
Mr B suggested Aviva find him an exact replacement car, rather than pay him its settlement 
amount. But, under the terms of his car insurance policy, this isnt something Aviva was 
required to do.
I understand Aviva has already paid Mr B its settlement amount of £3,560 (as well as the 
compensation and interest Ive already mentioned). It follows that I dont think Aviva needs to 
do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman