DRN-1344006
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that The Society of Lloyds has declined to deal with a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Bs car was stolen from his driveway on 6 May 2019 by thieves using an electronic signal 
booster to copy the code from his car keys. The car was recovered the next day. As there 
was minimal damage Mr B said he wasnt sure he wanted to make a claim on his policy. It 
was suggested to him that he should consider getting his keys recoded to help secure his 
car and the cost of doing so would be covered under his policy subject to certain limits. 
Mr B says he contacted his local manufacturer dealer garage on 15 May 2019 to arrange an 
appointment for this but the earliest time available was some weeks away.  
On 20 May 2019 Mr B was advised that his car wouldnt be covered against further theft until 
his keys were recoded. He then asked the approved repairer to collect it so it would be 
covered and this was arranged for 02.00 on 21 May 2019 to fit in with his work pattern. But 
the car was stolen again at around 22.10 to 22.30 on 20 May 2019 before it was collected. 
Mr B says he didnt keep the subsequent appointment for the recoding of the keys as he no 
longer had the car.
The Society of Lloyds has declined to deal with Mr Bs claim as it says there isnt 
satisfactory evidence Mr B had booked the appointment to recode the keys.
Mr B disagrees and wants The Society of Lloyds to deal with the claim.
Our investigator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said:
It isnt disputed that the theft of Mr Bs car was an insured event covered by the 
policy. Its then up to The Society of Lloyds to show he hasnt complied with the 
policy terms.
Mr Bs policy says loss and damage isnt covered in some circumstances when the 
car is left unoccupied including if reasonable precautions havent been taken to 
protect it.
The Society of Lloyds says the advice given to Mr B to recode his keys was a 
reasonable precaution to secure his vehicle and it isnt satisfied there is sufficient 
evidence he booked an appointment to do so.
The manager of the manufacturers dealership has confirmed Mr B contacted it on 15 
May 2019. Theres also evidence Mr B phoned its call centre that day and was 
transferred to the particular garage. But unfortunately the call cant apparently be 
retrieved. It also says booking confirmations arent sent when an appointment is 
booked and when an appointment isn't kept it drops off the booking system.
Its been shown Mr B called the garage on 15 May 2019 and it is likely this was to 
arrange an appointment to get the keys recoded. It isnt fair to hold Mr B responsible 
for the failings of the manufacturer and dealership to hold records of the appointment. In this case The Society of Lloyds hasnt shown the policy terms havent been 
complied with. And other security requirements suggested by the underwriters 
werent a requirement. Its therefore unfair for The Society of Lloyds to decline Mr Bs 
claim and it should consider it in line with the rest of the policy terms.
The Society of Lloyds doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. In summary 
it says it appears Mr B also says he contacted the garage on 8 May 2019 so why didnt he 
make the appointment at that stage when it was possible one mayve been available in eight 
days time. Mr B was aware of an increased risk to his car and his evidence including about 
the calls, security measures used and dates of the appointment are inconsistent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision based on what I think is more likely to have happened than not. 
I agree with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
I have taken note of the Society of Lloyds submissions including about the inconsistencies 
of Mr Bs evidence. He has said he made a call to the dealership on 8 May 2019. I accept 
this was to enquire about recoding his keys and he says he was told an appointment may 
take 2 to 3 weeks. After pressing matters he was apparently advised an appointment may be 
accommodated in eight days but theres nothing to show that wouldve in fact been the case 
or that an appointment wouldve been available before the car was subsequently stolen.
Theres also evidence to show Mr B rang the manufacturer and was transferred to the 
dealership on 15 May 2019. Its unfortunate that theres no recording of this call and that the 
manufacturer and dealership cannot provide any more evidence of what was arranged at 
that time. But thats not Mr Bs fault. 
Based on the available evidence, including what Mr B has said, I think on balance that its 
more likely that this call related to arranging an appointment to recode the keys than not.
Other security measures to protect the car were also discussed but none were made a 
condition or requirement of the policy or cover.
Mr B also subsequently arranged for his car to be collected by the approved repairer to 
ensure it was covered but unfortunately it was stolen shortly before the arranged pick up was 
due. That was a reasonable security precaution taken by Mr B.
Putting things right
Overall I think Mr B took reasonable steps to arrange the recoding of his car keys. And Im 
not convinced on balance that The Society of Lloyds has shown that he has failed to protect 
his car or breached the terms and conditions of his policy in a way that justifies it declining 
his claim. Consequently, I think it should now deal with his claim. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right The Society of Lloyds should deal with Mr Bs 
claim in line with the remaining terms, conditions and limits of the policy. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman