DRN-3149089
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Santander UK Plc made an entry about them on the CIFAS 
fraud protection database in connection with a mortgage application, and wrongly refused 
their application.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs S applied to Santander for a mortgage. Santander refused their application and 
left a fraud marker on the CIFAS database, though it didnt tell Mr and Mrs S that at the time. 
Mr and Mrs S found out about the marker following a later credit application. They made a 
subject access request to CIFAS, which showed that Santander had reported application 
fraud, saying that they had provided false income details in support of the mortgage 
application. 
Mr and Mrs S complained. They said the wage slips included with the application were 
genuine and provided by Mr Ss employer. They wanted Santander to remove the marker, 
grant them a mortgage, and compensate them for the extra costs theyve had to pay in 
continuing to rent rather than own their home.
Santander wouldnt remove the marker, so Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our 
service. Our investigator thought that Santander hadnt shown a good reason for the marker 
so she said Santander should remove it and pay Mr and Mrs S £250 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs S accepted that, but Santander didnt. So the case comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fraud prevention databases play an important role in the financial services landscape, 
allowing sharing of information and assisting in the prevention of fraud. However, the 
consequences for an individual of being added to a database can be severe, so its 
important that a marker is only entered where it can be justified.
The standard of proof for putting a marker on the CIFAS database is that there must be 
clear, relevant and rigorous evidence of fraud, such that Santander could confidently report 
the matter to the police or other authorities (whether or not it has actually done so).
The standard required is therefore one of reasonable suspicion, not proof. But there must be 
evidence of fraud. There are various fraud offences, but a common feature is acting 
dishonestly for financial gain.
Ive borne that in mind when considering the evidence in this case. When I do so, I am not 
deciding whether or not I think its likely Mr and Mrs S did  or did not  make a fraudulent 
application to Santander. What I am deciding is whether  taking into account what Ive said 
about the standard of proof  it was fair and reasonable for Santander to conclude it had 
enough evidence to put a marker on the database.
Having considered this carefully and looked at all the evidence, Im not persuaded that it did.
Santander says that it thinks Mr and Mrs S did not accurately declare their income. It says it 
tried to verify their income using its standard third party checks but was unable to do so. And 
it says there were discrepancies between the application, the payslips and the P60s 
provided. It also questions Mrs Ss employer, which appears to have been owned by Mr S. It 
also says they provided misleading information on their application form about other 
mortgage applications they had made. 
Im not persuaded by what Santander says here. The payslips both Mr S and Mrs S provided 
match the gross salaries declared in the application form, and match money going into their 
joint bank account. And while Mr Ss income couldnt be verified, its possible to explain that 
on the basis that Mr S changed employment during the year, and so his overall income for 
the tax year would not match the declared salary. In any case, where income cannot be 
verified that should be a trigger for further enquiries  it is not enough of itself to justify a 
marker. Im not persuaded this evidence is enough to reach the threshold of a reasonable 
suspicion of fraud.  
Santander also noted that Mrs S worked for a company that Mr S owned. Its not unusual for 
spouses to work for each other. At the relevant time, the company was trading and had filed 
accounts to Companies House showing activity. I dont think the fact that Mrs S worked for a 
company owned by Mr S  even where he himself was employed elsewhere  is evidence of 
fraud.
Santander has also pointed to what it says is misleading information on the application form 
about previous applications to other lenders. Mr and Mrs S declared that they had made 
other applications, but that the lenders had not gone ahead with them. And Santander found 
evidence that other lenders had refused applications Mr and Mrs S had made. Thats 
consistent with what they said  I dont agree that the form is misleading. Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have known the detailed reasons for those refusals. Nor are decisions other lenders 
made relevant to the decision Santander had to make; it should come to its own view of the 
situation based on the evidence it has.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable for Santander to 
record the marker. Some of the information provided, and the checks it made, raised some 
questions which it was reasonable for Santander to investigate further. But I dont think there 
was enough to show that the threshold of reasonable suspicion of fraud and dishonesty had 
been reached. 
Putting things right
That being the case, Santander should remove the marker. I dont however think its fair to 
require Santander to grant Mr and Mrs S a mortgage. Lenders never have to lend; theyre 
entitled to consider and refuse applications. Mr and Mrs Ss application had a long way to go 
and could have been refused on other grounds  such as affordability, or something to do 
with the property  even if it hadnt been refused at this stage. As it was never considered 
further I dont think I can safely say that Santander should have lent to them, or that its more 
likely than not that it would have done.
However, I do think the later discovery of the marker caused Mr and Mrs S some upset and 
inconvenience, and Santander should compensate them for that. I agree with our 
investigator that £250 is fair in all the circumstances.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to:
Remove any external fraud markers made in connection with this mortgage 
application; and
Pay Mr and Mrs S £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman