DRN-3033025
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car acquired with finance from Go Car Credit Limited (GCC) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
In February 2019 Mr G was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with GCC.
Mr G experienced several issues with the car, which included:
Engine issues resulting in loss of power
Seals leaking
Car wouldnt drive in 5th gear
Mould in rear of car
Mr G contacted GCC in March 2021 and asked to reject the car. he said hed already paid 
for some repairs and had discovered fault codes which had been cleared. He provided 
pictures of the mould in the car and links to YouTube videos as evidence of the fault with the 
engine.
In response, GCC advised Mr G that he would need to provide evidence of the faults by way 
of an engineers report. Mr G didnt provide any engineering evidence so GCC rejected the 
complaint.
Mr G brought his complaint to this service. He said hes provided evidence to show that 
theres an issue with this particular type of engine which wasnt remedied by a recall. He 
wants compensation for being without the use of his car and travel expenses hes incurred.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. he said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Mr G didnt agree. He said hed experienced an issue with the engine within 5 months of 
getting the car and that this had been repaired under warranty. He said that since then hed 
gathered evidence showing that over 65,000 cars had the same engine issues. He said the 
leaking seals were also a common fault with this type of car and he thought this had been 
happening since the car had been manufactured but hed only noticed it recently. Mr G said 
he couldnt afford to pay to have the engine stripped down and diagnosed and said he 
already knew that there was a fault with this type of engine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because GCC supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account the age and mileage of 
the car and the price paid.
Id expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr G  to have a degree of wear 
and tear and to require repair more often than, say, a brand-new car. So, in order to uphold 
this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the car, as 
opposed to issues caused by general wear and tear. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. And its generally 
up to the business to put thigs right. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its 
up to the consumer to show that that fault was present at the point of supply.
Mr G and GCC disagree about whether the car had an inherent fault. In order to reach a 
decision, I need to look at all the available information and determine, on the balance of 
probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied.
An independent engineers report can help to determine whether a car is of satisfactory 
quality and whether a fault was present or developing at the point of supply. In this case, I 
can see that GCC asked Mr G to obtain an engineers report, but he hasnt done so. So, Ive 
based my decision on the available information.
Ive looked at the information provided by Mr G, including the diagnostic report, the photos 
and the links to various websites. Ive also taken into account what hes said about the 
issues hes experienced with the car.
Ive no reason to doubt what Mr G says about the issues hes experienced with the car. As 
Ive already said, the burden of proof is on Mr G to show that there was a fault present or 
developing at the point of supply. In this respect, the diagnostic doesnt help to determine 
this because it doesnt establish whether the fault was present at the point of sale, only that 
theres a fault now. Whilst the information from the internet shows that other drivers have 
experienced similar faults, this information doesnt prove that Mr Gs car has the same fault, 
nor does it prove that the fault was present at the point of supply. The photos provided by Mr 
G show some water marks and staining in the rear of the car, but the photos alone arent 
enough for me to say that this is as a result of a point of supply fault. 
Ive taken into account the age and mileage of the car. At the point of supply the car was 
around 6 years old and had covered around 58,000 miles. So, Id expect some wear and 
tear. In addition, I can see that Mr G drove the car for over 21,000 miles before he reported 
issues with the engine and the seals. If these faults had been present at the point of supply, I 
would have expected Mr G to report them much sooner. If there had been water marks and 
stains at the point of supply, I think Mr G would have raised this as an issue within the first 
few weeks. Due to the time and mileage elapsed, I think its more likely that the faults are due 
to general wear and tear. 
Taking everything into account, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that there was a 
fault with the car at the point of supply. So Im unable to say that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr G. Because of this, I wont be asking GCC to do 
anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman