DRN-4159605
The complaint
Mr M complains that APFIN LTD, trading as cashasap.co.uk (Apfin), lent him a high 
interest loan which he could not afford.
What happened
Mr M took one loan from Apfin. It was for £150 on 10 July 2021. The repayments were over
six months and lessened over those months as the interest element reduced. The first two
repayments were due to have been £48.84 and £56.78 respectively, and the sixth was due
to have been £31.16. The loan remained outstanding and Mr M has said that a default has
been registered in relation to it.
Mr M complained in August 2022 and in October 2022 he received Apfins final response
letter (FRL). It gave reasons why it did not uphold his complaint. It included an offer to Mr M
to resolve the complaint and we have been informed that as of May 2023 that offer was still
available to Mr M.
Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in November 2022.
One of our adjudicators looked at it, requested a copy of the credit search Apfin did when
Mr M applied for the loan and then issued her view. She considered that the adverse entries
on this credit file search obtained by Apfin was poor enough to lead Apfin to have declined
the loan.
Mr M agreed with it. Apfin disagreed and our adjudicator issued a second view in which she
corrected a couple of elements arising from the credit search results. Apfin responded with
submissions for me to see knowing it was due to be passed to an ombudsman. These are
lengthy and detailed and its final summary is duplicated here:
Taking all these factors together, we dont think that Mr Ms credit history was so
adverse as to require a detailed financial review to establish the disposable income
that he had for a first loan of £150. We think it was reasonable for us to view his
application as someone with an acceptably adverse credit history and to consider his
application sustainably affordable based on the checks that we did.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision giving 
reasons why I considered that the offer made by Apfin in its FRL was satisfactory but I did 
not uphold the complaint. That is duplicated here for ease of reading. I have made it smaller 
type to differentiate it. 
The provisional decision dated 3 August 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Apfin had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amount hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. Apfins checks couldve considered several different things, such as how
much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Apfin should have done more to establish
that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period (reflecting the
risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was
becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M.
I do not consider that any of these bullet points apply to Mr Ms circumstances as Mr M had
declared a relatively good monthly income of £1,960. The repayments were not high and for
a short term. This was Mr Ms first and only loan with Apfin, so there was no repeat
borrowing.
Apfin was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loan  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his loan
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised,
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint. And Ive decided to issue a provisional
decision giving reasons why I do not think that Apfin lent irresponsibly.
I have reviewed all the points that Apfin raised and they accord with my own interpretation of
the details it had obtained before lending. These were details supplied from Mr M together
with the credit search it carried out.
Mr M had given his income as £1,950 a month and had said that he lived at home with his
parents.
I have checked this by viewing Mr Ms application form and he had informed Apfin of that.
So, the likelihood of him being in a difficult position where he may have had problems
repaying priority bills was lower than an individual applicant in rented accommodation or with
a mortgage and bills to pay. And its entirely reasonable that this would have been a factor
considered by Apfin when looking at Mr Ms application.
Having said that Mr M did declare a series of payments which may have been general
contributions to bills in the house. 
These were about £225 which included rent, utilities and internet costs plus £100 for travel 
and £150 a month on other loan or credit card expenditure. He also declared other regular 
expenditure as £150 and the same sum for clothing and food. This added up to £775 each 
month on Mr Ms figures. This indicated that Mr M would have had about £1,175 left over after 
repaying all the expenditure he had declared.
The credit search done by Apfin does show some adverse entries but these were mostly
historic  from 2016 and 2017. If these entries had been recent then I appreciate it may have
had a bearing on the creditworthiness assessment Apfin was required to do before lending.So, I do depart from our adjudicators view that when considering the likely outstanding costs
Mr M faced with other debt then these historic ones were unlikely to be ones that needed to
be added in. But Im also persuaded by Apfins submission that even if those costs were
added into Mr Ms total expenditure, still he would have had enough to repay this £150 loan
where the largest repayment figure was around £57 and diminishing as each month passed.
There were two entries of defaults added to the records about eleven months before Mr M
applied for the loan and it is this element I have considered carefully.
However, this was a first and only loan for £150 and placing that into context I consider that
Apfin carried out proportionate checks.
Lenders such as Apfin are used to receiving applications from customers where adverse
credit entries may have been recorded. But the items in Mr Ms history in this complaint
relate to some defaults some years before plus two more recent ones and some
delinquencies which on their own would not necessarily lead a professional lender to refuse
this low value application.
The loan value was low at £150, the income and expenditure figures Mr M had given to it
showed a more than satisfactory margin with which to be able to afford between £36 and just
under £57 each month for a short time. I cant ignore that Mr Ms disposable income seemed
to have been more than enough to make these Apfin repayments.
In the FRL, Apfin have made an offer and I consider that to have been a satisfactory
outcome.
Having checked with Apfin it seems that offer is still available for Mr M to accept. That was a
reduced balance settlement offer and to quote Apfin it explained:
The interest write-off totals £127.01 and reduces your balance to the remaining loan
principal of £99.16 only. We are only asking you to return the money that we gave
you, without any interest or fees. This means that you would have paid nothing at all
for using our service.
In the circumstances I plan not to uphold the complaint but I plan to endorse the offer made
in the FRL.
This is the end of the duplicated provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has not responded to the provisional decision.
Apfin has replied to say it has nothing further to add. From that response it seems Apfin 
accepts my provisional decision and therefore is content to proceed with the offer to Mr M in 
the FRL. 
In the circumstances I have no reason to depart from the provisional decision findings which 
I repeat here and they form part of this final decision.
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint but I endorse the Apfin FRL offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman