DRN-4173522
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy at the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited dealt with a 
storm claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Some of Mr and Mrs Ps home, and the exterior, in particular, was damaged during a 
hailstorm. They made a claim but werent happy with the way it was handled or the quality of 
the repairs. RSA agreed to review the repair work that had been done. Mr and Mrs P want to 
use their own contractors or for RSA to redo the repairs to a higher standard. As agreement 
hasnt been reached Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. After much debate and discussion, he said RSA 
should pay the full estimate cost details provided by Mr and Mrs P of £12,985. He also said 
RSA should consider any costs for the TV aerial and hallway carpet. Our investigator said in 
view of the poor service Mr and Mrs P received throughout the claim RSA should pay £400 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused throughout the lifetime of the claim.
Mr and Mrs P confirmed they had received settlement from RSA for the aerial and the 
hallway and they hadnt involved the use of RSAs contractors to do that work, so these 
matters werent an issue. Mr and Mrs P didnt specifically accept the view from our 
investigator as I think they were a little concerned about what action RSA might take.
So, in my recent provisional decision I said:
From the start of the claim I think Mr and Mrs P have been very clear about all of the areas 
they say were damaged by the claim. Initially they detailed their damage as follows:
Slate roof
Guttering and brackets to the house and conservatory
Conservatory roof  panelling and trims
TV aerial and cable junction
Bedroom window no longer closes due to rain damage
Front hallway flooded
Workshop roof
Apple tree damaged
Plants destroyed
Plant pots broken.
Despite the damage Mr and Mrs P said they didnt include the tree, the plants, and the pots 
within their claim.
Mr and Mrs P said responses from RSA to deal with their claim were sadly lacking. They 
said for a long period they didnt hear anything at all from RSA. Even though the damage 
occurred in July Mr and Mrs P said the scaffolding for the repairs didnt go up until 
November. And it didnt come down again until the following February.
In view of the areas of dispute in 2022 RSA did arrange for a further site visit to assess the 
outstanding points. And on the back of this assessment arranged to send new experts C to 
review the outstanding issues. But these experts made Mr and Mrs P very concerned and 
wary as they felt they were suddenly under investigation. They didnt feel C had been 
brought in to resolve their claim issues. Mr and Mrs P were asked to attend video recorded 
interviews as a new and further part of the claim process. After this interview C questioned 
some of Mr and Mrs Ps evidence around items and what was in storage and who was being 
paid for the storage service. Mr and Mrs P were very upset by this. Instead of the 
reassessment of the damage leading to a resolution of their claim they felt it led to attempts 
by RSA to find a way of not settling their claim at all.
In terms of the damage bullet points above Ill work through these in the same order.
Mr and Mrs P said the main house roof did undergo some repairs, but it wasnt brought back 
to the condition it was prior to the claim, and there were still issues with broken and untidy 
tiles.
Regarding the guttering and brackets RSA contractors repaired the damaged section. But 
Mr and Mrs P said that the entirety of the guttering had been damaged. They said their walls 
were still getting wet every time it rained. Mr and Mrs P said this included temporary repair to 
the iron guttering at the front of the house to stop it falling off.
The conservatory roof is a particular problem with replacement parts unavailable and 
continuous leaks. Without the parts there doesnt appear to be a complete resolution 
possible, and Mr and Mrs P noticed that the panels replaced in the December werent like for 
like. Some panels had been replaced upside down. Trims werent replaced either. Regarding 
the ongoing leaks RSA said rather than taping up the leaks which then caused further 
damage to the panels Mr and Mrs P should have contacted RSA to resolve it. I dont accept 
that. The leaks were there after RSA had done the work, so I understand why Mr and Mrs P 
had to act in the moment when they discovered the roof was still leaking in numerous places 
after RSA had supposedly carried out a repair.
The TV aerial issues have been paid for and resolved.
Mr and Mrs P said the bedroom window took on large amounts of water due to the damage 
caused by the time taken to deal with the claim, and by the lack of repair to the broken 
guttering.
The flood damage to the front hallway has been paid for and resolved.
Mr and Mrs P pointed out that their garden workshop was only 18 months old at the time the 
roof was damaged by the hailstorm. But the real problem as far as they were concerned was 
that the damaged workshop roof wasnt repaired quickly enough, and this has led to further 
damage internally. The roof was repaired in February but there was no action on the internal 
damage. Mr and Mrs P said the interior lining needs to be removed for repair or 
replacement.
Mr and Mrs P were further upset when RSA offered them £334.06 for the repair of the 
window and no more as it said everything else had been concluded. Mr and Mrs P confirmed 
again that they would prefer to do all of the outstanding repair work themselves, but they 
estimated it would cost between £5,000 and £7,000 just to do the conservatory roof alone 
and several thousands to complete the other outstanding repairs.Mr and Mrs P also confirmed they had to move furniture items in the conservatory and store 
them elsewhere in their home to avoid them getting damaged due to the ongoing leak 
problems in the conservatory.
All these issues were still outstanding in mid 2023. Mr and Mrs P said there had been no fair 
settlement offer made. In view of this Mr and Mrs P through their own contractors produced 
estimated costs for the work they said still needed to be concluded:
House roof  Scaffolding and repairs £2350.00.
Guttering (Previous quote and still valid) £1100.00.
Conservatory roof  replacement (as per the original) £6850.00.
Bedroom window - £2185.00.
Workshop repairs to internal boarding (estimate) £ 500.00.
Total estimated cost to complete the work. £12,985.00.
At one point our investigator felt that a new refreshed assessment was needed to unravel 
the outstanding points. So, RSA appointed D to have another look at the claim damage 
and put forward its findings. Im not sure this new report is particularly helpful. It doesnt go 
into much detail on some of the key points.
House roof  the report said, The roof situation has not changed, and The slate tiled roof 
was repaired but since repairs some additional slates have come loose. The report 
continued The slate roof does need some tiles adjusted which will need scaffolding, but I 
fear the amount the PH has had quoted for is far more than is needed, which will cover some 
unrelated issues with the slate roof. Some photo evidence was provided which D said 
confirmed roof slates have slipped, not needing full repair.
Guttering  here the report said PH wants all the guttering changed as he feels it has had 
further damage. The PH also claims the front section of guttering also needs replacing; he 
feels this is due to the original peril. On my first visit the PH also pointed out due to the peril 
the back guttering was now leaking. The report included photos and concluded I do not feel 
the front guttering is part of the claim, it is a cast iron gutter fitting up with a plastic gutter his 
neighbour fitted which does not match the same profile so is leaking. Perhaps the gutter 
around the conservatory is valid and should be covered. But not the front as not claim 
related. Front gutter joins with neighbours which do not have same profile so will keep 
leaking, not claim related. Regarding the conservatory guttering the report said, guttering 
will need renewing.
Conservatory roof  On this point the report said My initial visit because the contractor 
reported further issues, as replacing just the sheets was no longer viable, during their 
attempt to repair the holding bars were damaged, some were damaged due to the peril. The 
contractor was informed by their supplier that new holding bars could be purchased but had 
very long delivery times. They ordered only to be told after many chases that the bars were 
no longer available as now discontinued. Their only option was to remove the entire roof and 
renew. This was reported via my report which I asked if the insurer could be contacted to 
see if they would cover the extra costs.
Bedroom window  the report noted Mr and Mrs P claimed, water was dripping on a 
wooden window frame, this frame he now claims is beyond repair so would like it to be 
replaced, this item was not on the original scope of works. The report continues The 
window was not part of the original scope of works so any cost will need to be covered by 
the claim. And the report concludes Rear window not on original scope, PH claims is 
damaged due to peril, any costs will need to be covered by insurer.Workshop  The PH said he was not happy with the way the shed roof was repaired but 
could not point to any issues, I asked if it leaked, and he said no. Workshop repairs, I do 
not understand what this cost is for.
Ds final report comment was The insurer will need to agree to extra costs, PH wants to 
cash settle.
I struggle to understand how this case has gone on for so long. I think Mr and Mrs P have 
been clear throughout about what they arent happy about and what needs to be done. I also 
think theyve given details to support why these issues are still a problem. But it seems to me 
that despite the later interventions by this service neither RSA or those acting as RSAs 
representatives want to make definitive decisions on costs and outcomes. And in some 
instances, there still seems to be a lack of understanding of what Mr and Mrs P are asking 
for. I really cannot understand why that is. Based on reading of the details provided to this 
service over the complaint period Ill work through what I think should be the fair and 
reasonable outcome for each outstanding issue.
House roof  Although I wasnt particularly impressed with the latest report issued by D I 
think the photos showing the roof front and back suggests there might be something in 
RSAs point that the whole roof isnt in a bad condition. RSA said it doesnt all need 
replacing, and I think thats fair. Although I have to counter that by noting this is of course 
based on a roof that had supposedly already been repaired. And if any work was carried out 
before the photo images and Mr and Mrs Ps points give the indication it wasnt done to a 
required standard. Also, based on how this claim has been handled I dont feel Im in a 
position to be able to rely on RSA and its representatives to suddenly act quickly and fairly to 
get this long outstanding claim resolved.
Further, Mr and Mrs P would prefer to get work done themselves and whatever work gets 
done will require a scaffold. So, I think based on the costs estimate provided RSA should 
reasonably settle this part of the claim for £1,500.00 which is close to two thirds of the total 
estimated costs.
Guttering  Its not entirely clear but the impression the report gives is that the guttering to 
the back of the house and the conservatory is an accepted part of the claim. The report said 
it doesnt feel theres an issue with Mr and Mrs Ps front guttering. It suggests the issue is 
with the neighbours plastic guttering instead, although it does accept that there is leaking. In 
contrast Mr and Mrs P said they had to do temporary repairs to the front guttering to stop it 
falling off. Overall, as theres still a leak at the front which Mr and Mrs P think they need to 
act upon, and all the other guttering is agreed I think RSA should pay the £1,100.00 
estimated cost in full here as a reasonable outcome.
Conservatory roof  there doesnt seem to be much debate about the conservatory roof. It 
seems accepted that it needs replacing so RSA should pay the estimated amount in full of 
£6,850.00 to allow Mr and Mrs P to get that resolved once and for all.
Bedroom window  despite some commentary from RSA about the window not being part of 
the original claim the impression given through the report is that the damage is accepted. 
So, in line with the estimate RSA should pay £2,185.00 for this.
Workshop  this is perhaps the most disappointing part of the report. It talks about the roof 
being repaired. But all parties know that the roof has been repaired. The issue is the damage 
caused to the inside of the workshop due to the delay in the roof being repaired. Im not sure 
how RSA and its representatives got confused on this point. So, I accept Mr and Mrs Ps 
position that the delay in repairs did cause damage and the internal boarding will need replacing. To keep things moving to a conclusion for Mr and Mrs P I think their estimate of 
£500.00 is reasonable and RSA should settle for this amount.
This creates a total claim settlement of £12,135. Which I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances of this case. RSA should add simple interest at 8% per year to 
the total amount from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
Compensation  Theres no doubt Mr and Mrs P have suffered poor service, delays, and a 
lack of communication throughout their claim. I dont understand why RSA and its 
representatives havent come up with suitable cash offers or claim settlement options to get 
the repairs done within the time that has passed. But even with this background its clear to 
me the impact on Mr and Mrs P goes further than that. When RSA got C involved the claim 
took a disturbing turn for Mr and Mrs P and they were upset at the treatment they received 
and the way the language around their claim changed. I can understand that. I think RSA 
could have dealt with that issue much better and caused less concern for Mr and Mrs P. 
They were suddenly worried that their claim wasnt going to be paid for at all. Taking all 
these factors into consideration on top of the clear and obvious delays and accepting that 
money can never really make up for the distress and inconvenience caused I think RSA 
should pay £750.00 as compensation here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs P had nothing further to add.
RSA had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the responses I see no reason to change anything from my provisional decision 
and my provisional decision will become my final decision.
Putting things right
Pay £1,500.00 towards the main roof repair.
Pay £1,100.00 towards the guttering.
Pay £6,850.00 for the conservatory roof.
Pay £2,185.00 for the bedroom window.
Pay £500.00 for the workshop lining.
Pay £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs P.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Pay £1,500.00 towards the main roof repair.
Pay £1,100.00 towards the guttering.
Pay £6,850.00 for the conservatory roof.
Pay £2,185.00 for the bedroom window.Pay £500.00 for the workshop lining.
And add interest at 8% to the total amount of £12,135.00 at 8% simple per year from the 
date of claim to the date of settlement.
*If Royal & Sun Alliance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs P.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs P accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2023. 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman