DRN-1891345
 
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs H complain, via their representative Mr T, that AXA Insurance UK Plc, caused 
huge delays and inconvenience in dealing with their escape of water claim under their home 
insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr M and Mrs H suffered an escape of water in their kitchen which required reinstatement. 
Their claim was accepted by AXA in November 2018 and it appointed loss adjusters to 
assess and handle the claim. Mr T said it was almost four months before work started even 
though AXA and its loss adjusters knew the kitchen floor had partially collapsed and was 
unsafe and that Mrs H was suffering from a medical condition. 
Mr T complained in February 2019 that work hadnt started and the kitchen floor was unsafe. 
AXA agreed thered been delays and paid £150 and later a further £100 compensation. Mr T 
said that despite Mr M and Mrs Hs difficulties AXA waited until March to offer alternative 
accommodation. He said thered been confusion about the excess. He said Mr M was signed 
off work for 10 weeks with stress from dealing with the claim and had lost earnings. 
AXA responded that alternative accommodation was arranged for Mrs H and her pets and it 
paid Mr M a disturbance allowance. It said confusion about the policy excess happened as 
Mr M took out new insurance in July 2018 when he already had a policy to March 2019. It 
said it mistakenly logged his claim under his new policy and he was told a £500 excess 
would apply. But the claim was declined as the damage pre-dated the policy and a new 
claim was logged under the existing policy but the applicable excess of £450 wasnt notified.
AXA apologised for the confusion and some delays. It said this was due to an issue with the 
quote from the first contractor and another contractor was appointed. It said Mr M returned 
home in May, but the repairs werent finished until June 2019. AXA said communications 
were acceptable and the loss adjuster had met the timescales, but delays meant it would 
pay Mr M and Mrs H £300 more compensation, bringing the total to £550. 
Mr T said the excess may have been an error by the loss adjusters but as AXAs agents they 
were believed when they said it was nothing. Mr T said it took almost four months before 
work began even though AXA knew about the unsafe flooring. He said AXA had said that 
such claims came with a level of unavoidable inconvenience, but this was staggering and 
avoidable and caused Mr M a stress related illness resulting in extended time off work.
The investigator said repairs were delayed and a missed appointment in March 2019 caused 
more stress and frustration. And Mr T had called and emailed about poor communications, 
the alternative accommodation and disturbance allowance. She said problems arose with 
more than one party involved, but once work began, it was completed in reasonable time. 
The investigator said there was conflicting information about the policy excess, which at one 
point the loss adjuster noted as nothing. She said thered been no agreement to waive it and 
AXA explained about Mr Ms two policies. When wed suggested AXA waive the charge AXA 
hadnt investigated. Now it had, it was shown to be an admin error and shouldnt be waived. 
She said Mr T hadnt said during the claim that Mr M had been off work due to the stress of 
the claim process, and she said loss of earnings would require further information. 
The investigator thought AXAs compensation of £550 was fair and she didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said Mr M could make another complaint about AXA cancelling his policy if 
he wished.
Mr T disagreed with the investigator saying he found it staggering that AXA can dump 
vulnerable people like Mr M and Mrs H without considering the consequences of its actions. 
He said everything that went wrong during the claim had nothing to do with them. Mr T didnt 
think AXAs compensation recognised Mrs Hs condition and the urgency of the repairs. Mr 
T, on behalf of Mr M and Mrs H requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely at AXAs handling and decisions on Mr M and Mrs Hs claim to see if it 
has treated them fairly and to see if its paid them reasonable compensation.
All parties agree that work shouldve been arranged more quickly than it was and that the 
delay caused unnecessary stress and inconvenience to Mr M and Mrs H. AXA said the delay 
was mostly due to having to change contractor. This is unfortunate but cannot be 
unprecedented and should not have led to a near four-month hold-up to the repairs. 
I think more and better communication was needed from AXA and its loss adjuster during 
this period to keep Mr M and Mrs H informed about the delay and for AXA to understand the 
difficulties the delay was causing its customers. I can appreciate that the delayed start to the 
repairs wouldve caused a great deal of stress considering Mrs Hs health condition and the 
state of the kitchen floor.
I can see that Mr T put considerable effort into getting a schedule of works established and 
finding out about alternative accommodation and the disturbance allowance. He also alerted 
AXAs agents to Mr M and Mrs Hs difficulties. Mr T has described how frustrating he found 
this process, and I sympathise with him. I think that once started, the repairs were carried 
out properly and in reasonable time. 
I also think that once the work was arranged, alternative accommodation was provided for 
Mrs H in a timely manner and a fair payment was made to Mr M as a disturbance allowance. 
Im pleased the reinstatement was completed satisfactorily, albeit not until after Mr M had 
returned home. 
I can see that Mr M and Mrs H thought at one stage that they wouldnt be required to pay the 
policy excess. This payment is a requirement of their policy and isnt generally waived. The 
miscommunication about the excess has been explained by AXA and I accept this was a 
genuine error connected to the mistaken holding of dual building insurance cover by Mr M. 
And so I dont require AXA to refund the excess payment that Mr M will have paid.
Escape of water claims are fairly complex, usually take several months and generally involve 
stress and inconvenience to those affected. I can see there was avoidable delay and stress 
caused to Mr M and Mrs H by AXA. However, from all of the evidence and representations I 
have seen I think, overall, the compensation totalling £550 paid by AXA to Mr M and Mrs H 
is a fair and reasonable reflection of the distress and inconvenience they suffered through 
AXAs poor service. If any of the sum remains to be paid, I recommend Mr M and Mrs H 
accept the compensation and AXA should make the payment.I agree with the investigator that a complaint about lost earnings to do with AXAs handling of 
the claim will need to be evidenced from an employer and medically. Such evidence should 
be brought to AXA in the first instance and could be the subject of a separate complaint to 
our service if required. 
If Mr M feels that he received incorrect advice about his building insurance policies from his 
broker, he may be able to bring a separate complaint about this business.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman