DRN-3854313
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by Retirement Direct Limited to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension 
arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Our investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint and said Retirement Direct should pay Mr L 
compensation. Retirement Direct disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the complaint 
was passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision saying that I intended to reach a substantially different 
conclusion to the investigator and not upheld the complaint. A copy of the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings are set out below in italics and form part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Mr L approached Retirement Direct in September 2007 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Mr L was seeking advice because he wanted access to a lump sum of around £13,000 or more for 
home improvements, to buy a car and to go on holiday.
In November 2007 Retirement Direct completed a fact-find during a telephone meeting to gather 
information about Mr Ls circumstances and objectives. Retirement Direct also carried out an 
assessment of Mr Ls attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderate.
After a number of further telephone calls, on 23 November 2007, in what Retirement Direct called an 
initial financial report it advised Mr L not to transfer his pension benefits and to keep his DB pension 
intact until his normal retirement date. In summary, the report said Mr L should give greater 
consideration to his retirement planning as there was a shortfall in his target retirement income; he 
should contact his local authority to see if it would pay or contribute to his home improvements, he 
should try to cut back on expenditure to see if borrowing was affordable so he could raise capital this 
way; and he should reconsider his requirements for capital because his intended purchase of a new 
television wasnt essential. It also said that Mr L should not use his pension benefits to raise capital 
because he would reduce his income; he would place increased reliance on means tested benefits in 
retirement; he would reduce his death benefits; and he didnt have an overwhelming need to access 
the benefits now from his pension. 
However the report said that Mr L didnt agree with the advice and it set out what Mr L needed to do if 
he wanted to proceed in any event.
In early December 2007 Mr L wrote two letters to Retirement Direct saying that he wanted to proceed 
with the transfer. But Retirement Direct didnt think it was clear from his letters that he understood the 
consequences and disadvantages of his intended course of action, so it asked Mr L for further written 
confirmation of why he wished to proceed.
On 4 January 2008 Mr L wrote another handwritten letter to Retirement Direct. This time he said that 
hed read, analysed and discussed Retirement Directs report and hed decided to reject its advice 
and opt to take a lump sum from his pension. He went on to say that this would allow him and his wife 
to have a more comfortable life financially and treat themselves to things theyd not previously been 
able to afford.
Following receipt of Mr Ls letter, on 10 January 2008 Retirement Direct issued a suitability report, 
which broadly repeated what it said in its initial financial report that its advice was for Mr L not to 
access the benefits from his DB pension. It said that because Mr L had insisted on proceeding against 
advice, it wasnt able to recommend an appropriate course of action, but that Mr L had chosen to go 
ahead using an unsecured pension contract, which would provide him with the capital sum he needed 
and meet his objective.
In February 2008 the transfer completed and Mr L received a tax-free cash lump sum of a little under 
£17,000 and a one-off income payment of around £2,500. The remainder of the funds were invested 
in a number of investment funds which Retirement Direct deemed matched Mr Ls attitude to risk.
In 2021 Mr L complained, via a representative to Retirement Direct about the suitability of the transfer 
advice. He said that the transfer wasnt appropriate for him and hes lost out financially as a result.
Retirement Direct didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said that its primary position was the complaint 
had been brought of time because the event complaint of was more than six years ago and Mr L had 
reason to complain more than three years before he did. But it went on to say that in any event it 
considered its advice was not unsuitable. In summary it said that it did not recommend Mr L transfer 
his pension to raise capital; it explained the consequences and long-term implications of Mr L going 
against its advice, it explained the risks associated with what he chose to do; and it explained the risk 
of him prioritising his short term need over his long-term income requirement. Overall it said that in its 
view Mr L was adamant that he wanted to access his pension benefits early and that he wouldve 
gone ahead himself had he been able to, so he could take the maximum lump sum and income he 
needed.
Mr L, via his representative referred his complaint to our service. An investigator firstly concluded that 
Mr Ls complaint was one that we could deal with  it wasnt brought too late - which was later 
supported by an ombudsmans decision on the matter. The investigator then considered the merits or 
substance of the complaint and they upheld it, and recommended Retirement Direct pay 
compensation. In summary they said:
They didnt think the advice to transfer was suitable given the growth rate required to match 
Mr Ls DB scheme benefits and his capacity to absorb loss  they didnt think Mr L was likely 
to improve on the benefits he was entitled to from his DB scheme.
Retirement Direct only referred to generic motives when describing Mr Ls objectives and they 
didnt think these were truly of importance to him to justify the loss of guaranteed benefits.
While Retirement Direct advised Mr L that it wasnt in his best interest to transfer out, they 
didnt think Mr L was a true insistent client. This was because Retirement Direct didnt provide 
Mr L with the information he needed to make an informed decision in the initial financial report 
 the Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report wasnt provided and Mr L wasnt told about the 
critical yield or growth rate required. They said this was only provided in the second report by 
which time Mr L had already decided to proceed.
Retirement Direct didnt act in Mr Ls best interests.
Retirement Direct disagreed. It provided a substantive response, which I have read in full.
But in summary it said:
 Its advice was for Mr L to not transfer and it consistently said hed be worse off in retirement 
if he did.
It did not rely on generic objectives  it recorded specific and personal objectives for both the 
short and long-term.Its 2007 insistent client process was in line with FCA guidance published 10 years later in 
2018.
It disagrees the failure to provide a critical yield figure to Mr L undermined its insistent client 
process and suitability letter of January 2008.
The TVAS growth rate is only accurate when someone is looking to transfer and invest their 
entire transfer value to improve their benefits. Mr L wasnt seeking to do this  he wanted an 
immediate lump. It said it demonstrated the impact of him accessing his benefits by showing 
him a before and after transfer comparison of benefits which was more appropriate given Mr 
Ls limited understanding of pensions.
It was clear to Mr L that if he decided to take the maximum lump sum available he would not 
receive the level of income he was due to receive at 60 by remaining in the DB scheme. He 
understood he was acting against advice and would be significantly worse off in retirement.
Its process extended to a number of meetings before the recommendation was made (it 
referred to enclosed copies of the meeting notes) and it requested further handwritten 
confirmation from Mr L in his own words when it thought hed not been clear enough in his 
understanding to proceed against advice.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes 
the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where 
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time of the 
advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Retirement Direct's action here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests 
of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to 
a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive provisionally decided to not uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Retirement Direct should have 
only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ls best interests.
A key aspect in this case is Retirement Directs categorisation of Mr L as an insistent client - this is a 
client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended and wants the 
business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of insistent 
clients. But as I set out above, the COBS rules required Retirement Direct to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client and to provide information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. So, Retirement Directs recommendation had to be clear and Mr L had 
to have understood the consequences of going against the recommendation.
Suitability of advice
It's clear from the information available at the time of the sale that a transfer out of Mr Ls DB scheme 
wasnt suitable. So I dont think it is necessary for me to consider this in detail. But Ive outlined below 
what I think are the key reasons why it wasnt in Mr Ls best interests to transfer.
Financial viability
Retirement Directs initial financial report of November 2007 didnt specifically refer to the critical yield 
or investment growth rate needed to match Mr Ls DB scheme benefits if he transferred to a personal 
pension arrangement. It wasnt until the second suitability report of January 2008 where this was 
spelled out.
But the initial report did say that given Mr Ls moderate attitude to risk, the investment of his pension 
transfer value would be unlikely to match the return needed. That said, in Mr Ls case where he was 
intending to take his benefits immediately, this was of less importance and might not have been very 
helpful or useful to Mr L anyway.
What the report did set out clearly was that if Mr L transferred, his retirement income would be lower. 
It said that there was already a shortfall between what Mr L wanted and what he could expect, but 
that by transferring he would be moving further away from his target retirement income.
It was also established that the transfer would reduce the guaranteed death benefits and spouses 
pension that Mr Ls wife would receive if he predeceased her. For these reasons alone the transfer 
out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ls best interests.
Financial viability isnt the only consideration when deciding whether a transfer is suitable - there 
might be other reasons which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive 
thought about the documented reason as to why Mr L wanted to transfer below.
Access to a cash lump sum
Mr Ls short-term objective was clear  he wanted a lump sum of £13,000 or more to carry out some 
improvements to his home, buy a car and go on holiday.
Retirement Direct didnt think Mr L should proceed with the transfer because it thought Mr L had 
alternatives available to him to meet his objective, which he should explore first. 
This included cutting back his expenditure so that he could consider borrowing the money he needed 
instead. It also said that Mr L should consider his requirements for capital because one of his 
intended purchases wasnt essential.
Overall Retirement Direct said that Mr L should keep his DB pension intact until his normal retirement 
date and that he did not have an overwhelming financial need for the benefits now from your 
pension. And I agree with Retirement Directs conclusion  I dont think Mr Ls reasons for wanting to 
access his pension were good enough to warrant him giving up his guaranteed benefits.Was Mr L an insistent client?
Retirement Direct says that Mr L was an insistent client who understood he was acting against advice 
and that as a consequence he would be worse of in retirement.
As I said above, at the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in 
respect of insistent clients. But the rules that were in place meant, Retirement Directs 
recommendation had to be clear and Mr L had to have understood the consequences of going against 
the recommendation.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, while I accept its possible there were 
shortcomings in the advice process and how it treated Mr L as an insistent client, even if Retirement 
Direct had done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done, I currently think Mr L wouldve 
still gone ahead with the transfer of his pension.
It was Mr L who contacted Retirement Direct with a view to releasing money from his pension. 
Following the initial contact with Retirement Direct, there followed a number of phone calls. And 
Retirement Direct has provided the advisers notes of these calls. Looking at these I can see that in all 
of the further calls Mr L was told that Retirement Direct did not recommend he transfer out of his DB 
scheme and the reasons why it believed it wasnt in his best interests.
As I said above, Retirement Directs written advice in November 2007 was clear that Mr L should keep 
his DB scheme pension intact.
I think there was a full and detailed explanation of why it believed Mr L should do so as well as the 
risks and implications of making the transfer. It also outlined the alternative ways Mr L could meet his 
objectives without accessing his pension. I can see that it wasnt until Retirement Direct re-confirmed 
its advice in the second written report of January 2008 that specific reference was made to the 
investment funds Mr Ls pension would be invested in. But I can see that the illustrations Retirement 
Direct included with the initial report were based on these investment funds and the income figure 
quoted was also based on this - so I dont think Mr L was disadvantaged here and put in a position 
where he wasnt fully informed.
The report then went to note that Retirement Direct had already explained the reasons for its 
recommendation to Mr L but that he still wanted to proceed in any event. It then went on to say what 
Mr Ls options were and what he needed to do if he did still want to make the DB transfer against 
advice.
Im mindful that Retirement Directs first written communication set out what Mr L needed to do to put 
its advice to one side and transfer in any event on an insistent client basis, which I dont think was 
fair to Mr L. But this cant be seen in isolation - its clear that Mr L had already been told during several 
phone calls why it wasnt in his best interests to transfer. I can also see from these call notes that 
Retirement Direct did not introduce the insistent client process immediately or in my view readily talk 
about how Mr L could transfer in any event. It wasnt until Retirement Direct had repeated its advice 
and allowed Mr L time to consider that advice before it discussed with him what he needed to do if he 
still wanted to proceed  and only after hed considered the written advice.
Im mindful that Mr L was not an experienced investor and it appears he had very little knowledge of 
financial matters based on the information recorded at the time. So while Retirement Direct was 
permitted to deal with Mr L on an insistent client basis, I think it had to be careful if it was to take 
matters through this route. And I currently think that it did. 
I say this because it insisted on Mr L providing the reasons why he wanted to proceed, in writing and 
in his own words, which he did. Mr L said that hed read, analysed and discussed the report with this 
wife, including the consequences and disadvantages. And having done so hed decided to reject the 
advice and opt for the lump sum.
Retirement Direct did not provide Mr L with a template and Ive no reason to doubt that Mr Ls 
insistent client letter wasnt written by his own hand. I can also see that Retirement Direct wasnt 
satisfied from Mr Ls first two letters that he fully understood the consequences of his actions and it asked him to explain in more detail why he wanted to go ahead prompting Mr L to send in a further 
letter as above. And even then, Retirement Direct followed things up with a second suitability letter, 
repeating its advice in writing allowing Mr L more time to consider things before it proceeded to 
facilitate the transfer.
I think its clear that Mr L was intent on carrying out his plan and that he believed it was in his best 
interests to enable him to meet his objective. I think Mr L reasonably understood the risks and 
sacrifices he was making by doing so. Retirement Direct highlighted the alternatives available to Mr L, 
yet despite being told this he still chose to go ahead. I therefore think its reasonable to conclude that 
Mr L had made up his mind and he wanted to proceed with the transfer despite Retirement Directs 
advice not to do so.
Based on what Ive seen, theres nothing to show or suggest that Retirement Direct pressured Mr L or 
that its process hurried him into making a decision. I consider there was plenty of time between each 
contact and the interactions and advice took place over a number of weeks. I also think Mr L was able 
to make an informed decision  I think Retirement Direct explained its advice in a clear and not 
misleading way.
Im not persuaded Retirement Direct couldve given Mr L more or better information that wouldve 
likely prompted Mr L to change his mind. 
Summary
Overall, while I accept its possible that there were shortcomings in the advice and insistent client 
process employed by Retirement Direct in dealing with Mr L, for the reasons Ive set out above, I 
currently think Mr L had made up his mind about what he wanted to do and was willing to take the 
necessary extra steps to enact the transfer. So, even if Retirement Direct had done anything more, I 
currently think Mr L wouldve still gone ahead and insisted on transferring his pension to meet his 
objective.
This means I dont intend to uphold this complaint or make any award in Mr Ls favour.
Both Retirement Direct and Mr L received my provisional decision. Retirement Direct said it 
had nothing further to add.
Mr L, through his representative, said that he never wrote any letters to Retirement Direct 
and in fact said that hes never written a letter in his life. He said that he doubted Retirement 
Direct would have a copy of the letters. He added that he only remembered having one 
phone call with Retirement Direct and that he didnt understand who they actually were when 
he spoke to them  he believed they were pension advisors acting his best interests rather 
than an independent financial advisory firm.
The investigator sent Mr Ls representative a copy of the insistent client letter in question. 
And in response Mr L said that his signature must have been forged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr L, Ive reached the 
same conclusions as I set out in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
I can see that Mr L has made a strong representation that he never wrote any letters to 
Retirement Direct. And hes gone on to say that the insistent client letter Retirement Direct 
provided in its business file, which I have relied on in my decision, is not something he 
recognises and says his signature must have been forged.I said in my provisional decision that Ive no reason to doubt that Mr Ls insistent client letter 
wasnt written by his own hand. And my view of this has not changed. Im firstly mindful that 
Mr Ls representation that his signature has been forged has been made before hes 
received or reviewed a copy of the insistent client letter we forwarded to him via his 
representative  I understand its been delayed in the post. So I dont think its fair to place 
much weight on what Mr L says. Ive nevertheless tested it against the evidence so Ive also 
looked at Mr Ls signature on the insistent client letter and compared it with the other advice 
paperwork and documents that bear Mr Ls signature from the time. Ive then looked at 
Mr Ls signature on our complaint form. And having done so, Im satisfied the signatures all 
look the same. So unless Mr L is saying that he didnt sign any of the documentation from 
the time of the advice (which I dont think he is) I think more likely than not the signature on 
the insistent client letter is Mr Ls. 
Mr L has also said that he only remembers having one phone call with Retirement Direct and 
didnt really know who they were. But I think Mr L is mistaken here - the evidence from the 
time suggests otherwise. As I said in my provisional decision, Retirement Direct has 
provided a series of phone call notes recorded by the adviser, which suggest detailed 
discussions about the advice were had with Mr L over a period of time. And Ive no reason to 
doubt these are from the time. So given the above, and because it was Mr L and not 
Retirement Direct who instigated matters, I find it unlikely Mr L wasnt aware who Retirement 
Direct were or what their status was.
So for these reasons and those set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award in 
Mr Ls favour.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman