DRN-3758769
The complaint
Mr D complains about Paragon Finance PLC trading as Idem Servicing (Idem) dealt with a 
request for information he made under Section 78 of the Consumer Credit Act.
What happened
Idem purchased a debt in Mr Ds name in January 2012. Between January 2012 and 
November 2021 Mr D made regular repayments towards the outstanding balance. 
Last year, Mr D made a settlement offer but Idem declined. Idem has explained its looking 
to recover the full outstanding balance. 
Mr D made a request under Section 78 of the Consumer Credit Act and asked Idem to 
provide the relevant credit agreements and associated terms from when the credit card was 
first opened. Mr D obtained some advice about the credit agreement Idem sent him and 
went on to raise concerns it was unenforceable. 
Idem issued a final response and said it had referred Mr Ds concerns about issues noted on 
the credit agreement to the original lender (M). But Idem said it had sent Mr D the 
documents required. Idem also said Mr Ds partial settlement offer had been correctly 
declined and didnt uphold his complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ds complaint. They didnt think Idem had acted 
unfairly and noted its not for our service to say whether a debt is enforceable in court of not. 
The investigator didnt think Idem had acted unfairly by rejecting Mr Ds settlement offer 
either. 
Mr D responded and said he hadnt asked us to comment on enforceability, Idems rejection 
of his settlement offer or the vagueness of its early correspondence. Mr D confirmed his 
complaint is that Idem had misled him, in terms of its obligations to provide documents, by 
referring him to M. Mr D said Idem ought to have been clear that it had sent him all the 
documents it had on file when responding to his Section 78 request but didnt. As Mr D 
asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with Mr Ds responses to the investigator, Im focusing on the information Idem 
provided in response to the Section 78 request and whether it made its position clear. Mr Ds 
told us he thinks Idem shouldve included an explanation in its response. Mr Ds also told us 
he thinks Idem is referring complaints about CCA compliance to M. 
Ive looked at Idems correspondence with Mr D. I can see it forwarded a copy of the original 
credit agreement and associated terms as provided by M. Idem also sent Mr D a full 
statement showing all payments hes made to it since 2012. 
Idems letter invited Mr D to respond to it with any further questions he had. When Mr D went 
back to Idem it explained it had forwarded all the documentation requested and that he could 
contact M directly for further information. I accept Idem didnt specifically say it had fully 
complied with Mr Ds Section 78 request. But Im satisfied it did explain it had forwarded all 
the information requested and could do no more. In my view, Idem made its position clear 
and I havent been persuaded it treated Mr D unfairly. 
Mr D says Idem passed its duties to comply with the Section 78 request to M. But I havent 
found that to be the case. Idem responded to Mr Ds Section 78 request, providing the 
documents available. As noted above, it then referred Mr D back to M for any further 
information he wanted. Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but I havent found that Idem misled him 
or failed to fulfil his request. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but as Im satisfied Idem dealt with his complaint fairly, Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman