DRN-3437024
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC handled the set up of their 
offset mortgage after they moved properties.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out an offset mortgage with Barclays in November 2020. One of the 
features of this type of mortgage is that any savings are offset against the mortgage balance 
which lowers the amount of interest thats charged. But this facility wasnt set up correctly 
when the mortgage was taken out.
 
When Mr and Mrs P told Barclays about this, the bank had technical problems trying to sort 
things out, and it took around 12 months to fix the issue. During this time, Mr and Mrs P 
raised a formal complaint. When Barclays still couldnt fix the issue, they brought their 
complaint to our service.
 
While one of our investigators was looking into things, Barclays did manage to sort things 
out. It refunded the interest offset that Mr and Mrs P had missed out on and offered them 
£500 as an apology for the trouble and upset theyd experienced. Our investigator thought 
this was a fair resolution to this case. But Mr and Mrs P didnt accept this. Instead, they 
thought £1,000 was a more realistic amount. Barclays didnt agree to this and, as above, our 
investigator agreed that £500 was a fair amount.
 
So, this case was passed to me for a final decision. To try and resolve things informally, our 
investigator passed on my initial thoughts to Mr and Mrs P. These set out why I thought 
Barclays offer of £500 was fair and reasonable. Mr and Mrs P werent happy with this. In 
brief, they said the effort theyve had to go through, and the bank ignoring the fact that it was 
taking the wrong amount from their mortgage for a full year, warrants more compensation 
than has been offered. As the matter remains unresolved, Ive moved to issue a formal 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and largely in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think is the 
heart of the matter here: has Barclays treated Mr and Mrs P fairly and reasonably and, if not, 
what should it do to put things right?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focused on the details that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
 
It's not disputed that Mr and Mrs Ps offset facility wasnt set up correctly. Barclays accepts 
that their savings accounts werent initially linked to their mortgage account when it was 
opened. This meant the balances in these accounts werent offset against their mortgage 
balance as it should have been. So, Im satisfied the bank didnt treat Mr and Mrs P fairly 
and reasonably. This means I now need to think about what Barclays needs to do to put 
things right.
 
Ive first thought about if this problem caused Mr and Mrs P any financial loss. As Ive just 
said, the offset facility wasnt set up correctly. So, Mr and Mrs P were charged more interest 
on their mortgage because of this. I can see Barclays has calculated how much this was and 
has credited their mortgage account with an adjustment of just over £4,500. This happened 
in November 2021. So, Im satisfied the bank has put Mr and Mrs P back in the position they 
would have been in if the offset facility was set up correctly in the first place. The available 
evidence doesnt show theres been any other financial loss.
 
So, Ive gone on to think about the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs P have experienced 
because of this issue. I fully accept that theyve had to spend a great deal of time liaising 
with Barclays over this issue, and I can appreciate how frustrating this must have been for 
them. But I dont accept the bank just ignored this problem. 
I can see from Barclays records that once the issue was raised, it was trying to get it 
resolved. I can also see the bank experienced a number of technical issues that stopped it 
being able to link Mr and Mrs Ps savings account to their mortgage account. I accept 
Barclays could, and should have been clearer in updating them over the problems it was 
having, and Ive taken this into account when thinking about what fair compensation would 
be. But, as above, I dont accept Barclays just ignored the issue.
 
Ive borne in mind that Barclays has fixed the offsetting issue  and the available evidence 
doesnt give any indication that Mr and Mrs P were caused any financial hardship by this 
problem. Im also satisfied that using financial services isnt always problem free and, to a 
certain extent, dealing with such problems is a necessary part of everyday life. But I can see 
that what Mr and Mrs P experienced here goes beyond this. 
In summary, Im satisfied Barclays actions will have been distressing for Mr and Mrs P and 
caused them unnecessary inconvenience. But I can see the bank has fixed the problem, put 
Mr and Mrs P back in the position they would have been in had this issue never happened, 
apologised and offered £500 in compensation.
 
Taking all the above into account, in the individual circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied £500 is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate Mr and Mrs P for the trouble 
and upset theyve experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs P £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman