DRN-2687459
The complaint
 Mr M complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to hold him responsible for 
transactions he says he didnt authorise. 
What happened
 In January 2020, Mr M went on holiday to Poland with a small group of friends. One 
evening, Mr M went to a bar where he says he was drugged and had over £6,000 stolen 
from his account.
Mr M says he and his friends purchased a drinks package from the bar using cash. Mr M told 
us the drinks package included vodka, mixers and red shots. Mr M and his friends drank the 
drinks, including the shots, and Mr M says he doesnt remember what happened after that. 
Mr M thinks he was drugged through the shots being spiked.
The transactions relevant to the dispute are as follows. 
Date UK Time Amount (GBP) Method Disputed?
31 January 2020 11.23pm £447.79 Apple Pay  Yes
31 January 2020 11.39pm £590.32 Apple Pay  Yes
31 January 2020 11.57pm £761.15 Apple Pay  Yes 
1 February 2020 12.18am £886.49 Apple Pay  Yes
1 February 2020 12.47am £1,311.03 Apple Pay  Yes
1 February 2020 01.10am £2,403.72 Apple Pay  Yes
Mr M said his friends had similar disputed transactions, but their banks contacted them and 
didnt authorise the transactions due to suspicious activity. One of Mr Ms friends was kicked 
out of the bar and Mr M has told us he is the only friend who didnt drink any of the red shots.
Mr M said he was taken to a room and while in there, he believes he was forced to make 
payments while under the influence of drugs which the bar spiked him with. He said at times 
he tried to call friends which he is aware of after reviewing his call logs on his phone.
Mr M said once he was released from the club and noticed the transactions which had been 
taken from his account, he telephoned his parents straight away. Mr Ms parents then 
telephoned Barclays, however Barclays couldnt speak to them without Mr Ms consent. Mr 
M called Barclays and said his friend who hadnt drunk any of the shots helped him. Mr M 
has commented that he didnt find Barclays helpful when trying to raise a fraud claim.
On the same day, Mr M contacted the Police in Poland and the Foreign Office. While Mr M 
has supplied our service with a police reference number, he said the Foreign Office wasnt 
able to help as it was a dispute between Mr M and Barclays. When Mr M returned to the UK, 
he reported the issue to Action Fraud.
While investigating the fraud claim Barclays contacted the bar in question. The bar was able 
to provide Barclays with receipts showing the transactions with a signature on them, two still 
images of Mr M from the CCTV and details of what was purchased. 
Barclays investigated Mr Ms fraud claim and declined it. They said they were holding Mr M 
liable for the transactions due to the evidence theyd received, and the story of events Mr M 
provided. In particular, Barclays said Mr M didnt say his drink was spiked on his first phone 
call when he raised the dispute. But Barclays did offer Mr M compensation for the way they 
handled his complaint.
Mr M wasnt happy with Barclays answer so brought his complaint to our service.
The investigator initially didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said that as Mr M didnt tell 
Barclays straight away that his drink had been spiked, and that he sounded clear and 
coherent during the initial phone call she didnt think his version of events was likely. And 
she thought the CCTV evidence clearly showed Mr M holding his phone so she couldnt 
conclude that his phone was taken away from him. The investigator also didnt think it was 
necessary for Barclays to flag the transactions as suspicious because Mr M had authorised 
them using his fingerprint on Apple Pay.
Mr M disagreed with the investigator. In summary, he said his average monthly spend is 
around £1,200 so its unrealistic to think he would spend £6,400 in such a short space of 
time. Mr M said he was held hostage in a room and forced to make payments while under 
the influence of a drug which hed been spiked with. Mr M also carried out his own research 
on the drug that he thinks was used  and explained that it wears off within a few hours 
which is why he was able to sound coherent when speaking to Barclays. And he said the 
focus of the call was to stop the payments, not tell Barclays the details of the evening. Mr M 
didnt agree the CCTV screenshots showed a true reflection of the night overall.
The investigator issued another view. She said that she hadnt seen enough evidence to 
satisfy her that Mr M was unknowingly under the influence of drugs and didnt willingly 
authorise these transactions.
Mr M remained unhappy and therefore the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
In January 2021 I issued a provisional decision. In it I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I currently intend to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint in part.
Generally speaking, Barclays can hold Mr M liable for these transactions if the evidence 
suggests thats it more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. The relevant 
regulations say that in order to show authorisation, Barclays needs to show that the 
transactions were authenticated  but that Mr M also consented to them being made. Based 
on the evidence I have seen, I am satisfied that the transactions were authenticated. The 
payments were made via Apple Pay  and in order for that to happen, Mr Ms debit card 
needs to be registered with Apple Pay. Records show his correct card details and CVV 
number were correctly entered. In turn, the Apple Pay facility was then used to make these 
transactions. 
So, as I am satisfied that the payments were authenticated, I then need to consider whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr M consented to the payments.
This is a finely balanced case and I wont be able to say what happened for certain  Ill 
need to make my findings based on what I think to have most likely happened in the 
circumstances. In order to uphold it, I must be persuaded that, on balance, it is more likely 
than not that Mr M didnt authorise the transactions in question.Ive thought carefully about Mr Ms version of events. He said him and his friends willingly 
went into the bar and purchased a drinks package using cash. I have no reason to disbelieve 
Mr M and as there isnt any evidence of this drinks package being purchased on Mr Ms 
statements - it supports his statement that cash was used. Mr M said the drinks package 
included some red shots which him and a few of his other friends drank. 
The first transaction is an Apple Pay payment for £447.79. Having considered the sequence 
of events, Im minded to believe that Mr M did authorise this payment. I say that because 
considering the particular type of bar the activities took place in, I find it likely that Mr M 
authorised this payment to pay for a service. I cant see any other reasonable explanation to 
explain why Mr M and his friends would go into this type of bar if it was only to drink. I think 
its more likely to believe this purchase allowed Mr M to end up in a room alone with 
members of staff from the bar. I appreciate Mr M says he was forced into all of the payments 
made, but I cant find another reasonable explanation to explain how he ended up in a room 
alone without his friends.
The transaction which followed this was only around six minutes later, for a larger amount - 
£590.32. Having considered the evidence provided from the bar, it appears that the first 
transaction paid for one bottle of champagne, four roses and one artistic show. I think its 
reasonable to believe the artistic show would have lasted longer than six minutes based on 
the amount spent. The second transaction purchased another four roses, another bottle of 
champagne and another artistic show  albeit this one costing more than the previous show. 
The third transaction, made approximately 18 minutes after the second, purchased five 
roses, another bottle of champagne and another artistic show  again more expensive than 
the previous two. The fourth transaction happened around 21 minutes after the previous, 
and the purchase included nine roses, one bottle of champagne and the same artistic show 
purchased in the previous transaction. 
Mr Ms call records show that around three minutes after the fourth purchase, Mr M had calls 
from one of his friends. One of these calls lasted around four seconds, and the other, around 
six minutes afterwards lasted approximately one minute. While I cant be certain of the 
phone call which took place, I find it hard to believe Mr M would have spent a significant 
amount of money on an artistic show to spend part of it on the phone to his friend who he 
travelled with. A further transaction followed consisting of 13 roses, one bottle of champagne 
and a more expensive artistic show. 
The final transaction was made at approximately 01.10am UK time, and the itemised bill 
shows Mr Ms card purchased 31 roses, one bottle of champagne and a single artistic show 
costing over £1,000. The evidence received from the bar includes two still images of CCTV 
from the night. The time stamp shown on these images coincides with the final transaction. 
Therefore, Ive considered these carefully alongside what I know about the previous 
transactions.
The first still image shows a gentleman, who I assume to be Mr M, sat in a chair holding a 
phone to a card reader. There appears to be at least two other people in the room, including 
one whom I believe to be a dancer as they appear to have no clothes on. The second 
person is kneeling closely to Mr M and appears to be a staff member not involved in the 
artistic show. I say that because this person appears to be fully dressed.
Barclays have relied on this picture to show Mr M willingly making the transaction. But I cant 
fairly agree. Mr M has told us he was drugged and forced to make the payments by staff 
members in the room. At this point of the evening, according to the evidence from the bar, 
Mr M had already purchased 35 roses, five bottles of champagne and five artistic shows. I 
cant see any evidence of these purchases, or any drinks glasses, in the still image. It also appears that Mr M is in a small room, sitting by a table which is positioned directly next to the 
wall. I dont believe this room demonstrates an area where somebody would have enjoyed at 
least five artistic shows in the previous hour or so. I also havent seen any satisfactory 
explanation as to why somebody else was in the room with Mr M and the supposed dancer. 
The next image, only five minutes after the first, shows Mr M with a bucket on his lap and a 
dancer next to him who appears to be leaning. In this picture Mr M can be seen to be leaned 
over the table looking at somebody else in the corner of the room who appears to have a 
camera in his hand. In this picture, I can see roses and the tops of bottles in the corner of the 
picture which coincide with the itemised bill. However, considering the setup of the room, it 
doesnt seem plausible that Mr M would have had the need to buy so many roses or bottles 
of champagne  which he or the dancer dont appear to be able to drink with no drinks 
glasses  as it appears he is only ever joined by one dancer standing near to him, rather 
than performing any kind of show.
Nonetheless, I also dont consider these still images show a true reflection of the hour or so 
Mr M was in the room. The images are within 5 minutes of each other and after the final 
transaction. If what Mr M said about the drug used on him is true, its likely it would have 
started to wear off at this point.
Ive thought carefully about the receipts which the bar has provided to Barclays. It shows a 
scribble on them which they claim to be Mr Ms signature. Of course, if Mr M was under the 
influence of drugs or alcohol, his signature may not be a true reflection of the usual 
signature. However the transactions were made using Apple Pay  and a signature isnt 
needed. Therefore, I cant fairly say these receipts persuade me that Mr M willingly made the 
purchases. 
Ive researched the bar in question, and I see there are several similar reports of customers 
being drugged and money taken without authorisation. Ive also thought about Mr Ms usual 
spending habits and I think the pattern on his account during this evening is unusual.
I also havent seen any evidence of Barclays contacting Mr M to ensure the transactions 
were him. I think its reasonable, based on Mr Ms usual spending habits, that Barclays fraud 
prevention system should have highlighted these transactions as unusual.
I dont think Barclays did enough to protect Mr M here  I think a block of the account would 
have been reasonable, or at the very least a phone call. Either of these options would have 
resulted in Mr M needing to speak to somebody at Barclays and explain the transactions in 
more detail. I think this would have been appropriate given the amount of the transactions, 
the time they were taking place and the fact the activity was taking place in another country. 
I appreciate if it was Mr M making the transactions himself, this would have been 
inconvenient. But I think there is enough evidence to suggest that something was amiss and 
Id expect Barclays to ensure their customer was protected.
Im not persuaded, considering Mr Ms account history, that its in his nature to spend such a 
large amount during one evening. Its also extremely out of character for six large payments, 
increasing in value such as the ones in question, to be made from Mr Ms account at any 
time. I also think the evidence of the call history and logs from Mr Ms friends, and the phone 
call to his parents support Mr Ms version of events further. Mr M also took necessary steps 
by reporting the incident to the Polish Police, and the Foreign office. 
When Mr M returned to the UK, he also reported this incident to Action Fraud. Overall, I think 
Mr Ms actions following him finding out about the transactions support his story that he 
didnt willingly make the transactions further.I accept this is not a clear-cut case and Barclays have rightly raised several points that could 
suggest Mr M authorised the transactions himself. However, having considered Mr Ms 
circumstances, and the circumstances of this complaint alone, Im satisfied that its more 
likely than not Mr M didnt authorise the final five out of the six transactions. And therefore, I 
think Barclays should reimburse Mr M for these amounts.
I dont consider Barclays are entitled to make any deductions to the refunds for contributory 
negligence. Contributory negligence carries a high bar and I dont think Mr M is at fault for 
the circumstances of this complaint.
I also think a compensation amount of £200 is appropriate due to the trouble and upset this 
whole situation has caused Mr M. I say this because, although I appreciate a large part of 
the distress Mr M suffered was caused by the fraudsters, I think Barclays should have been 
more proactive when recognising the unusual activity on Mr Ms account and should have 
done more to prevent the transactions from going through. And therefore significantly 
reduced the impact on Mr M. 
So I thought Barclays needed to:
Reimburse Mr M for the last five disputed transactions - £590.32, £761.15, £886.49, 
£1,311.03 and £2,403.72.
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they refund Mr M. They 
should calculate this from the date the money was taken to the date they refund.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to withhold income tax 
from the above-mentioned interest. Barclays should give Mr M a certificate showing 
how much is taken off if Mr M asks for one.
Pay Mr M £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision. And while he agreed with it, he wanted to note 
that he didnt willingly authorise the first payment.
Barclays responded and didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary they said;
Its not feasible to consider that Mr M and his friends were all overcome by a drug 
administered to them.
Mr M didnt mention that he was drugged when he called Barclays to report the 
transactions. And his manner on the call doesnt indicate that he was suffering from 
the effects of being drugged.
Mr M doesnt have any medical evidence of him being drugged. And they find it 
unlikely a drug mixed with a large amount of alcohol would wear off quickly.
The gap between the first and second transaction was 16 minutes which is not an 
unusual timeframe for the type of bar in question.
In the first CCTV picture, they believe Mr M is making the payment using his phone 
unaided. Barclays state they cannot locate anyone in the picture who could be 
deemed as threatening.
In the second CCTV picture, they believe Mr M is being sick and the person kneeling 
next to him appears to be handing him tissues. Barclays dont consider this to be the 
actions of staff holding Mr M hostage. And they believe there is no dancer in this 
picture as suggested in the provisional decision because a transaction was taking 
place.
Mr M decided to go to the bar and as he used Apple Pay, the payments are 
considered to be less risky due to requiring face ID, fingerprint or passcode to 
authenticate the transactions. This is the reason Barclays didnt contact him despite 
the out of character spending.Following the final transaction over £2,000 was left in Mr Ms account. Barclays 
believe this would have also been spent if Mr M was held hostage and forced to 
make payments.
The bar responded to Barclays request with two photographs extracted from the 
CCTV and details of the transactions. Barclays find it hard to expect that they would 
provide evidence if any wrongdoing as it could be held against them in any police 
investigation.
Barclays have reviewed the data they hold for payments made to this establishment 
and dont think the data indicates an issue with the bar.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, my decision remains that this complaint should be upheld in part. Ive 
explained further below.
I appreciate Mr M says he didnt authorise the first transaction. However, I have to consider 
that Mr M did willingly enter the bar and I see no other plausible explanation as to how Mr M 
ended up in a room on his own. I appreciate Mr M says he was drugged and therefore he 
could have been easily persuaded to enter a room. However, I dont think its reasonable to 
believe that Mr M and his friends went to this type of establishment for a couple of drinks. 
Therefore, based on the evidence I have, I think its more likely than not Mr M did agree to 
pay for a service which resulted in him being in a room alone. By this time, its more likely 
than not the effects of the drug had taken place and the activities which followed happened 
while Mr M was under the influence of an unknown substance.
Ive thought about what Barclays has said in regard to it being unlikely all of Mr Ms friends 
were drugged. However, I dont consider it makes an overall difference. I say that because 
this complaint focuses on the circumstances of Mr M only. While its helpful to understand 
the full events of the night, it doesnt change my opinion that Mr M entered a bar, with his 
friends, had some drinks and paid for a service which resulted in him being alone in a room. 
At some point throughout this, he was spiked and then coerced into making payments for 
specific activities, alcohol and flowers which Ive seen no evidence of.
Ive listened to the phone call again between Mr M and Barclays when Mr M first reported 
the transactions. Barclays has said Mr M and his friends, who they assume is in the 
background, dont sound distressed. Barclays also dont believe a drug could wear off so 
quickly, especially when mixed with alcohol. Firstly, its not in my remit to comment on the 
effects a drug could potentially have on an individual. However, while Mr M hasnt supplied 
any medical evidence of him being drugged, I dont consider this alone to mean that he 
wasnt. Mr M said the purpose of the call was to stop the transactions. He didnt want to go 
into the full details of the night during that phone call and I can understand his reasons for 
this. Mr M had also already spoken to his parents before calling the bank and, if he was sick 
in the bar, like Barclays have suggested, this could explain why the drug wore off more 
quickly. I also think Barclays have made an unreasonable assumption that Mr M consumed 
a lot of alcohol. While hes confirmed he purchased a drinks package when entering the 
club, I havent seen any evidence of how much alcohol Mr M drank. I recognise the 
transactions confirm Mr M bought multiple bottles of champagne, however as Ive explained 
in my provisional decision, I havent seen any evidence in the photographs provided of Mr M 
drinking the champagne, or any champagne, or drinks glasses being present in the room. 
So, I dont think the point Barclays has made is a fair assumption given the evidence.Barclays have rightfully pointed out that the time gap between the first two transactions was 
16 minutes, not 6 minutes as suggested in my provisional decision. Ive thought carefully 
about this point, as I think a time frame of 16 minutes is more reasonable. Having 
considered the evidence provided from the bar again, it appears that the first transaction 
paid for one bottle of champagne, four roses and one artistic show. The second transaction 
purchased the same items, albeit the artistic show seemed to be more expensive than the 
first show purchased. And this time seemed to last around 1-2 minutes longer due to the 
time gap in between the second and third transaction. While I havent seen any photographic 
evidence of the time frame of the first few transactions, based on the evidence I do have, a 
difference in timeframe doesnt persuade me that Mr M willingly carried out these 
transactions. Ive explained why in more detail below.
Barclays have relied on the CCTV evidence provided by the bar. Theyve continued to rely 
on the first picture showing Mr M holding his phone near a card reader as evidence that he 
wasnt forced into making the transactions. And they think the second picture shows Mr M 
being sick into a bucket and a staff member handing him tissues. I can appreciate their 
comments that they dont think this would be the usual actions of somebody feeling 
threatened. However, as explained in my provisional decision I dont consider these still 
images show a true reflection of the hour or so Mr M was in the room. The images are within 
5 minutes of each other and after the final transaction. And despite them being taken from 
CCTV, they have only provided still images which dont allow us to fully appreciate the 
events taking place. Barclays dont consider the bar would have supplied images of the 
CCTV if there was any wrongdoing, as it could be held against them. But I disagree. I think 
the images which have been supplied to the bank are two extracts of over an hours worth of 
film. And therefore, I think they have been carefully selected and dont show the full activities 
which took place.
Ive reviewed Mr Ms statements again and looked at his usual spending habits. And its 
conclusive that the transactions from this night are out of character. I appreciate Barclays 
have said Apple Pay holds less risk than other types of transactions because of the security 
involved. However, I strongly believe Barclays could and should have done more to protect 
Mr M. I think a block of the account would have been appropriate until theyd had the 
opportunity to speak to Mr M on the telephone to query the transactions. I think if Barclays 
had taken this action it would have prevented the multiple transactions being made.
While its not clear why around £2,000 was left in Mr Ms account, its reasonable that the 
drug Mr M has described had started to wear off. Barclays also believe Mr M was sick, and 
Ive explained above why I think that may have had an effect on the drug. Ive also 
considered Barclays comments about the other transactions theyve reviewed which took 
place in the same bar. However, my decision is limited to Mr Ms circumstances only.
This is a finely balanced case and I wont be able to say for certain what exactly happened. 
However, based on the evidence Ive got I think its more likely than not Mr M didnt willingly 
authorise the last five out of the six transactions. And I strongly believe Barclays should have 
done more to protect Mr M by stopping the transactions going through which would have 
significantly reduced the impact this situation had on Mr M.
Putting things right
 In summary, I think Mr M was responsible for the first transaction which took place and 
therefore I dont consider Barclays should reimburse Mr M for this amount. However I think 
Barclays could have done more to protect Mr M based on the account activity which took 
place after this transaction. And because of that, Barclays should refund Mr M for the further 
transactions which took place. I also consider Barclays should pay Mr M £200 for the trouble 
and upset caused to him. My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ms 
complaint in part. 
To put things right, Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Reimburse Mr M for the last five disputed transactions - £590.32, £761.15, £886.49, 
£1,311.03 and £2,403.72.
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they refund Mr M. They 
should calculate this from the date the money was taken to the date they refund.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to withhold income tax 
from the above-mentioned interest. Barclays should give Mr M a certificate showing 
how much is taken off if Mr M asks for one.
Pay Mr M £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman