DRN-3017029
The complaint
Mrs R complained about the settlement value and handling of her claim under her home 
insurance policy with Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA).  
What happened
Mrs R had home emergency cover with IPA as part of her home insurance policy. When Mrs 
R discovered her boiler was leaking and she had no hot water or heating, she made a claim 
to IPA. 
IPA said it had fixed the boiler, but five days later Mrs R reported further leaks. IPAs 
contractor diagnosed the issue and identified a part needed replacing. An engineer attended 
three days later to complete the repair. When the engineer re-started the central heating, he 
identified two further leaks. He fixed one leak, but the other was part of the condensate run 
which IPA said wasnt covered by the policy, so the engineer left a warning sticker on the 
boiler as further remedial work was required.
As IPA wouldnt cover the repairs, Mrs R had her own engineer attend and he said that the 
boiler was beyond economical repair. She had a new boiler installed at a cost of £1,850 
which she thinks IPA should pay.
IPA spoke to Mrs Rs engineer who said, IPAs engineer had used excessive force that had 
caused other damage and he had broken the pipe from the condensate trap which went into 
the wall. Mrs Rs engineer indicated the damage was caused by IPAs engineers lack of 
competence.
IPA said it wouldnt cover the costs of the boiler. It said a clause in the policy stated if in the 
opinion of our authorised contractor, we are unable to repair your boiler/hot water system, 
we will pay you £500 incl. VAT towards buying a replacement. This can be claimed on a 
Reimbursement Basis within 90 days of our attendance at your home. So, IPA offered Mr R 
the £500, and a further £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought evidence provided by Mrs R was 
persuasive that IPAs engineer had caused the damage and didnt think the clause IPA 
considered was relevant in this scenario. So, he asked IPA to pay the cost of the boiler. IPA 
disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IPA has said it wouldnt cover the full cost of the boiler due to the clause stated in the 
contract. Ive reviewed whether I think this is fair, as Mrs Rs engineer has given a testimony 
saying that significant damage to the boiler was caused by IPAs engineer. 
I have started by considering what IPA and its engineer said on one aspect of the damage 
and find their testimonies to be contradictory. IPA issued a final response which included a 
statement saying, found that the condensate discharge pipe was dripping, cracked, brittle 
and in need of replacement. In other words, it said this damage existed when its engineer 
arrived on site. Whereas, later IPAs engineer said, we have assessed the repairs required 
for the condensate which we take full responsibility for this and this repair would cost around 
£85. I think this shows IPAs engineer took responsibility for causing the damage, which 
contradicts what IPA said. Mrs R also provided before and after photos of the pipe, showing 
the damage that had been caused by the visit of IPAs engineer.
When Mrs Rs own engineer examined the boiler, he said it was uneconomical to repair. He 
provided a video and a testimony to explain the damage. He diagnosed that the return 
manifold was split, due to excessive force having been applied by IPAs engineer on the 
pressure release valve (PRV), the condensate trap had split and there was a fault with the 
expansion vessel. 
IPA said I contacted [Mrs Rs engineer] and he advised that [our engineer] had put 
excessive force on to the nut holding the PRV in place. In trying to get the nut off, [Mrs Rs 
engineer] advised that [our] engineer had put excessive force on to the nut and in trying to 
get it off had caused the breakage and had also broken the pipe from the condensate trap 
which goes into the wall. 
IPAs final response didnt argue against what Mrs Rs engineer had said about IPAs 
engineer causing the damage through excessive force. Its only later, that IPAs engineer 
has argued that it didnt cause the damage. Because of this contradiction, along with the 
earlier contradiction, I dont find the testimonies of IPA or its engineer to be persuasive. I 
think Mrs Rs engineer has provided a more persuasive testimony which was accompanied 
by a video to support his view. IPA had the opportunity to comment on this and reject in its 
final response but chose not to. Therefore, I think the description of events provided by Mrs 
Rs engineer to be the most likely account of whats happened. Therefore, I think IPAs 
engineer probably caused the damage to the boiler. If this hadnt happened, I dont think the 
boiler wouldve needed replacing.
IPA has cited a clause in the policy that caps its liability to £500. However, I dont think this is 
relevant in this scenario. The clause covers work it cant repair when it carries out a home 
emergency visit. However, as I think its most likely IPAs engineer caused the damage that 
made the boiler uneconomic to repair, then I think its reasonable that IPA cover the cost of 
the replacement boiler. Therefore, I uphold this aspect of the complaint, IPA should pay 
these costs on the presentation of valid receipts.
Mrs R didnt think her complaint was handled well. IPA has agreed offering Mrs R £200 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. I think this is reasonable for 
the distress and inconvenience she has suffered with the frustration of receiving inaccurate 
information from IPAs contractors and the time it has taken to arrange her own contractor to 
rectify her lack of heating and hot water.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay 
Mrs R:
The cost of the replacement boiler (on production of valid receipts). Note the £200 
compensation IPA offered still needs to be paid.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman