DRN-4526430
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society didnt reimburse him after he told it hed 
fallen victim to a scam.
Background
The background to this case is well known to the parties, so I dont intend to set it out in full 
here. To summarise, Mr H wanted to buy a luxury watch. An acquaintance (who Ill refer to 
as Mr B) of his said he could help. Mr B claimed he had a contact who was a representative 
of the manufacturer and worked at a high-end department store. Mr H had known Mr B for 
over twenty years. He knew him to run a successful business and he owned watches made 
by the same manufacturer. As a result, Mr H found it plausible that his acquaintance would 
find it easier to acquire such a watch and that hed have contacts to help him do so.
Mr H made a transfer of £5,400 to Mr B using his Nationwide account. This was a deposit. 
He was told that those funds would be passed on to this contact who would place an order 
on his behalf. He was told he could expect the watch to be delivered around six weeks later. 
No watch was delivered. I understand Mr H visited the department store to speak to Mr Bs 
contact, but she claimed to not have any knowledge of the order.
Mr H asked Mr B to refund his money. He also told Nationwide that hed fallen victim to a 
scam. It notified Mr Bs bank and so his account was frozen. Mr B said that the freeze on his 
account prevented him from returning all of Mr Hs money. He paid him £800 in cash and 
said hed return the remainder if the fraud allegation made to Nationwide was withdrawn. Mr 
H did so, but Mr B never paid him the rest of the money owed.
Eventually, Mr H made a complaint to Nationwide and asked that it reimburse him. 
Nationwide said that, while it was required to refund fraud victims in certain circumstances, it 
considered that Mr H had a civil dispute with Mr B, rather than being the victim of a scam.
Mr H was unhappy with that response and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator concluded that it was a 
scam, but that it wasnt required to refund him under the relevant rules. Mr H disagreed with 
the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 17 November 2023. I wrote: 
The starting point under the relevant legislation is that Mr H will generally be 
considered liable for authorised payments. Its accepted that he authorised the 
payment to Mr B and so he is liable for it at first instance. However, Nationwide is a 
signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code. Under that Code, firms are expected to reimburse customers who fall 
victim to scams, subject to a number of exceptions.
However, the Code is only relevant if Im persuaded Mr H did fall victim to a scam. It 
specifically says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a 
Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has 
not received them 
While I can understand why Mr H feels like hes the victim of a scam, theres a high 
legal threshold for fraud. In order to find that he was the victim of fraud, Id need to be 
satisfied that Mr B had an intention to defraud him from the outset. Obviously, I 
cannot know for certain what was in the mind of Mr B at the time he came to this 
arrangement with Mr H. As a result, I can only infer what his likely intentions were by 
looking at the other available evidence. Unfortunately, Im not persuaded that 
evidence currently shows that Mr H was the victim of fraud. I can see that he 
reported the matter to the police but that they dont appear to be treating the incident 
as fraudulent.
Mr B also shared screenshots of messages he sent to his contact at the department 
store. These are consistent with him carrying out the promise hed made to Mr H  
making an enquiry with his contact, arranging for a new account to be registered with 
the manufacturer and so on. I know that Mr H says that hes had it confirmed that no 
account was ever actually opened for him, but there are other potential explanations 
for that other than Mr B committing fraud.
I accept that Mr H entered into this agreement because he wanted to buy a watch. Mr 
B hasnt delivered on his promise and hasnt refunded the remainder of the payment 
he made. I also know that Mr B has broken off all contact with Mr H and isnt living at 
the same address. Mr H can bring a civil claim for damages for breach of contract, 
but Im not persuaded that the evidence supports the claim that Mr B set out to 
defraud him. It goes without saying that he should seek independent legal advice 
before deciding what to do next to recover his money.
Finally, I am aware that the circumstances that have led me to come to this decision 
may change  for example, the police may decide to carry out an investigation into 
Mr B. As things stand, there isnt enough evidence to say that this was a scam. 
However, should new material evidence come to light, the first port of call for Mr H 
would be to go back to Nationwide to see if that new evidence would lead it to 
reconsidering reimbursement.
Overall, I dont think this payment was covered by the CRM Code and so I dont find 
that Nationwide acted unfairly in not reimbursing Mr H.
Mr H disagreed with my provisional decision. He said that he spoke with Mr Bs alleged 
acquaintance who said they had no knowledge of Mr B. He also spoke with the watch 
manufacturer who told him that Mr B hadnt been in contact with them to set up the account.
Ive considered this carefully but Im not persuaded to depart from the position I set out in my 
provisional decision. The onus is really on Mr H to provide enough evidence to demonstrate 
that hes a victim of fraud. Ive considered what hes told us, but there are other potential 
explanations for why Mr H was told what he was told. I dont have the necessary powers to 
establish what really want on between Mr B, the watch manufacturer and the employee of 
the department store because I cant compel the other individuals to answer questions or 
provide me with evidence. Those things might be uncovered in legal proceedings or 
following a police investigation.As I explained above, there is a high bar for demonstrating fraud. I cant safely conclude that 
Mr H was the victim of fraud on the basis of his recollection of conversations he had with the 
manufacturer and the employee of the department store. Im afraid the evidence supporting 
his case simply isnt strong enough.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman