DRN-2447557
The complaint
Miss C makes a number of complaints about how National Savings and Investments (NS&I) 
dealt with her Premium Bonds.
What happened
Miss C says due to a NS&I online problem she was unable to complete her Premium Bond 
purchase. She says NS&I told her it would backdate the purchase to allow the Bonds to be 
part of the August 2020 draw but says that didnt happen. She also says NS&I split her 
Premium Bonds into two amounts and changed their numbers. Miss C says she potentially 
lost out on the main prize of £1,000,000 and says NS&I may have acted illegally.
NS&I accept making a mistake and has apologised as well as paying £75 compensation. It 
says it has explained to Miss C how the prize draw works and that it carried out a 
retrospective draw to make sure all of the Premium Bonds were included in the August draw. 
NS&I says Miss C won £25 which it has paid her but accepts giving her mis-information.
Miss C had brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation fair 
and reasonable. The investigator didnt think the change of Premium Bond numbers had any 
impact and that it was Miss Cs decision to withdraw her money and spend it.
Miss C doesnt accept that view and says the compensation doesnt reflect the time and 
effort she had spent on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that NS&I has paid a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount and has fairly apologised for its mistakes. I appreciate Miss C will be 
disappointed by my decision.
There is no need for me to repeat what has taken place here and there is no doubt that NS&I 
made mistakes and gave Miss C incorrect information. I have no doubt Miss C was caused 
inconvenience by that and would have spent some time trying to find out what took place. 
But Im satisfied NS&I has now explained what took place and has fairly apologised. 
The key question is the level of compensation and I think the amount paid by NS&I is fair 
and reasonable for the reasons I will explain. I dont think Miss C suffered any financial loss 
here and can see that NS&I did include her Premium Bonds in the August 2020 draw and 
she won £25. I dont think the change of Premium Bond numbers or the splitting of them 
made any difference or had any real impact on Miss C. I appreciate Miss C says NS&I may 
have acted illegally but I make clear it would be for a court to decide that.
Overall, whilst I accept Miss C would have been caused frustration by NS&I lack of clear 
information about what had taken place, I dont think the impact was significant to justify any 
further compensation. And taking into account that I dont think Miss C suffered any financial 
loss. It was of course Miss Cs decision to withdraw her money and do what she wished with 
it and that is not something I can fairly hold NS&I responsible for.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Savings and Investments has paid a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman