DRN-2923776
The complaint
Mr S says CMC Spreadbet Plc (CMC) did as follows:
Wrongly liquidated his open trades/positions in October 2020, without notice and 
without cause to do so. [issue 1]
Manipulated and defrauded his trading account, including the manipulation of a trade 
and of trade related settings (stop loss settings). [issue 2]
Granted him an inappropriate Contracts for Differences (CFD) and spread-betting 
trading account, upon information it falsified, that should not have been opened for 
him. [issue 3]
What happened
CMC disputes the complaint and all the issues within it. Issues 2 and 3 emerged during the 
course of this services investigations, and CMC appears to have consented to having them 
addressed within the same complaint. Initially, CMC addressed issue 1 in its final response 
to Mr S. In the main, it said:
It provided/provides an execution only service in which Mr S, as an account holder, 
retained sole responsibility to monitor and manage his account, his trading within it 
and the margin requirements associated with his trading.
The terms and Order Execution Policy (OEP) agreed by Mr S for the account  and 
information prominently presented on the trading platform  informed him of that 
equity in his account was the cash balance (including realised profits and/or losses) 
in the account plus any unrealised profit in his open positions and/or minus any 
unrealised loss in his open positions (based on mid-prices, to avoid the impact of the 
relevant spread and/or slippage); that this equity stood/stands as the Account 
Revaluation Amount (ARA); that the ARA must be above 50% of the total margin 
required to sustain open positions in the account at any given time; and that a close-
out level (at which open positions can/will be forcibly liquidated/closed) automatically 
applied where the ARA fell to or below 50% of the total margin requirement in the 
account.
It was/is not obliged to give prior notice of a close-out and was/is not obliged to delay 
the application of a close-out, for any reason, once it has been triggered.
Issue 1 is about the liquidation triggered by events in Mr S US30 (Cash) open 
position on 16 October 2020. The overall position had been hedged, not completely 
but to the extent of a net short exposure of £0.50 per point. This meant a margin 
requirement of £715 which was met by his ARA at the time. However, he then closed 
one of the [buy] bets within the position which increased his net short exposure to 
£1.60 per point. This increased the accounts margin requirement to around £2,286. 
Even though it was not obliged to warn of a close-out, Mr S received such a warning 
as he closed the buy bet. After the bet was closed, his ARA was £1,039.35, but 50% 
of the margin requirement was £1,143. As the former was less than the latter, the 
close-out automatically applied. 
In investigating and considering issue 1, one of our investigators concluded that it should not 
be upheld. He reached this view for broadly the same reasons (as summarised above) given 
by CMC. He noted that CMCs application of the close-out, on the basis of the 50% of total 
margin requirement level, was/is consistent with relevant regulations set out by the 
European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) and that available evidence confirms 
the state of the account as described by CMC. However, he considered that evidence of 
CMCs staff inappropriately encouraging Mr S to get back into the market despite his distress 
about the close-out that had happened showed service below the standard he was entitled 
to. For the trouble and upset caused to him by this, the investigator said CMC should pay 
him £200.
CMC queried this outcome but, for the sake of resolving the complaint, it then confirmed it 
was prepared to make the £200 payment. Mr S queried the outcome too, in terms of the 
finding that issue 1 would not be upheld and, in response, the investigator elaborated on his 
reasoning. Mr S wider comments then prompted the investigator to look into issues 2 and 3. 
He provided a second view in which he affirmed his finding on issue 1 and then, with regards 
to issue 2, he mainly said:
There is no evidence of the manipulation that Mr S alleges. Contrary to his claim that 
CMCs staff were incentivised to manipulate trades for additional commission, there 
is no evidence to support this and CMC has confirmed that it does not charge any 
commission for the trades  the client only incurred the cost of the spread. 
Specific examples given by Mr S  a position allegedly opened in Tesla, a 
guaranteed stop loss order allegedly placed in July 2020 that he says he did not 
place, three stop loss orders executed in August 2020 that he disputes and a 
guaranteed stop loss order executed in September 2020  are not supported by 
evidence. Based on his accounts trading history, there is no record of a position 
opened in Tesla; with regards to the disputed placement of the guaranteed stop loss 
in July, it is not clear that Mr S did not place it and evidence shows that he closed the 
relevant position ahead of its price reaching the stop loss level so no detriment 
resulted from it; with regards to the stop loss orders executed in August, evidence is 
that they were placed as he opened the relevant positions; and with regards to the 
guaranteed stop loss order executed in September, evidence is that he amended the 
position after opening it in order to place the order. Log-on evidence shows that he 
was logged on to his account (and was trading) at each point the orders were placed.
Whilst Mr S feels strongly about the allegations in issue 2, the balance of available 
evidence does not support them.
With regards to issue 3, the investigator referred to the regulators rules on assessing 
appropriateness and mainly said:
Available evidence is that Mr S submitted an application for the account in which he 
presented himself as retired; with income between £50,000 and £99,999; with 
savings and investments worth between £100,000 and £500,000; with experience in 
trading shares and derivatives; with some work experience relevant to trading; with 
prior understanding of market volatility and liquidity; with an understanding of an 
account holders responsibility to manage and monitor the account; and with the 
objective to engage in short-term intraday trading. 
Mr S disputes the above, he says he was unemployed and in receipt of universal 
credit, he says his profile was significantly different (with much less affordability) and 
he says CMC falsified the profile information in order to deem the account 
appropriate for him. However, there is insufficient evidence to support Mr S position 
and nothing to suggest or show that CMC falsified the profile as he says it did. The 
regulators rules on the assessment of appropriateness permit a firm to rely on 
information provided by a client unless it is aware the information is inaccurate, incomplete or out of date. Though Mr S provided a copy of his bank statement to 
CMC during the application and though that could have been viewed as conflicting 
with the profile information, CMCs explanation that the statement was used only to 
verify his address at the time means, on balance, it relied on the profile information 
as it was.
In addition, there is also evidence that Mr S had traded extensively in a previous 
account with a previous firm, so he had the knowledge and experience to understand 
the risks in the CMC account; and the volume of his combined trading in both 
accounts suggests that he would have sought an account elsewhere in order to 
trade, even if CMC had rejected his application.
It cannot be concluded that the account should have been deemed inappropriate for 
Mr S.
Mr S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Issue 1
I endorse the investigators findings on this issue  I also incorporate his findings (as 
summarised above and as set out in his views to both parties) into this decision. As he said, 
evidence stands in support of the execution only nature of Mr S account; in support of his 
responsibility to monitor and manage the account (and the margin requirement within it); in 
support of how the ARA, the margin requirement (which fluctuated in line with trading 
activities) and the close-out levels (which fluctuated in line with the changing margin 
requirement) were defined; in support of the facts within his account at the time of the 
liquidations in October 2020; and in support of the close-out applied in response to his 
accounts breach of the minimum margin requirement stipulated by the terms for his account 
and by ESMA.
This issue is mainly dependent on evidence of the state of Mr S account at the time of the 
liquidation he disputes. I do not consider that there is a credible basis to say he was 
unaware of the workings of margin in his account and of the workings of the automatic close-
outs that applied where the minimum margin requirement was breached. As CMC says, 
there was no contractual (or regulatory) requirement upon it to give prior notice of the close-
out  because primarily and solely, it was for Mr S to monitor and manage the account 
sufficiently to avoid such an occurrence  and, for the same reason, no obligation on its part 
to allow time for Mr S to repair a margin breach before a close-out applied.
Evidence shows that by altering the hedge within his overall US30 position  after closing 
the buy bet  Mr S unfortunately triggered the margin breach that led to the liquidation. On 
balance, and for the above reasons, I do not consider a wrongdoing on CMCs part in this 
respect. However, as the investigator identified, CMC mishandled  either intentionally or 
negligently  its customer service to Mr S thereafter and as he was still in a state of distress 
about the liquidation. For the trouble and upset caused to him in this respect, I endorse the 
investigators proposal and I order that CMC pay Mr S £200. To its credit, I acknowledge that 
CMC agreed to this payment shortly after the investigators proposal (and its brief query) and 
that it has recently affirmed that its agreement remains in place.
Issue 2
This issue is also mainly dependent on evidence and is also faced with a body of evidence which, overall and on balance, does not support Mr S allegations. The investigators second 
view set out his findings clearly and I do not consider that anything meaningful can be added 
to them. Again, I endorse and incorporate those findings into this decision. As presented in 
my summary (above) of the investigators findings, there is a lack of evidence to establish, 
on balance, the manipulation that Mr S alleges and in terms of his specific examples of 
manipulation, the first cannot be determined but shows no detriment to him and the others 
are not supported by documentary and log-on related evidence. 
I have noted from Mr S early correspondence with CMC, that he referred to reporting his 
allegations of manipulation and fraud to the regulator and to the police. If that has been 
done, both authorities bear the remit to investigate such claims on their relevant terms and 
he can refer back to them in that respect. If that has not been done and with regards to our 
treatment of his allegations, Mr S is reminded that we can only determine complaints based 
on available evidence and such evidence does not support his claims. If he considers that a 
more forensic style investigation is required, he retains discretion to consider his earlier 
references to approaching the regulator and/or the police.
Issue 3
The regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules address, amongst other 
matters, a firms regulatory responsibilities with regards to appropriateness and suitability of 
investment products and services for retail clients. The COBS rules apply differently for 
appropriateness than they do for suitability. The rules for the former apply to an execution 
only service but the rules for the latter do not apply to such a service because advice does 
not form a part of the service, so there is no obligation upon a firm to ensure a product or 
service is suitable for the client. 
I mention the above because some attention has been given to Mr S affordability status at 
the time he applied for the CMC account and with regards to the application profile that was 
submitted in arguable contrast to what his bank statement showed. First, I consider it 
plausible that, given evidence that the request for identification proof was made after the 
account had been granted (so after appropriateness had been assessed), the bank 
statement submitted in response to the request was relevant only to identification, was not 
considered in the context of appropriateness and was received after appropriateness had 
been concluded. Second, and perhaps more importantly, it should be noted that affordability 
is usually a feature of the assessment of suitability, not of appropriateness (as set out further 
below). As such, I am not persuaded that CMC was obliged, in terms of assessing 
appropriateness of the account for Mr S, to take on board matters of affordability.
Appropriateness is assessed on information, from a client to a firm, used to determine 
whether (or not) the client has sufficient knowledge and experience to understand the risks 
involved in the service or product offered by the firm. In this respect, information about the 
type of service(s) and investment(s) the client is familiar with is important; and the same 
applies to information about the nature, volume, frequency and length of the clients 
experience in the familiar service(s) and investment(s). 
The COBS rules include the following  An investment firm shall be entitled to rely on the 
information provided by its clients or potential clients unless it is aware or ought to be aware 
that the information is manifestly out of date, inaccurate or incomplete. CMC was not 
required to probe and verify the information it received from Mr S, and as I have addressed 
above it does not appear that it had his bank statement at the time of its appropriateness 
assessment. Despite Mr S challenges, there is a lack of evidence to show that, as he 
alleges, the profile information considered by CMC was not from him and that it was falsified 
by CMC. The balance of available evidence is that the profile information was what CMC received from his application for the account. I have not seen evidence that CMC had, at the 
time of the assessment, knowledge  or that it ought to have had knowledge  that the 
profile information was out of date, inaccurate or incomplete, so, on balance, it was entitled 
to rely on it. Furthermore, and as the investigator noted, Mr S had previous trading 
experience. That stands broadly consistent with the trading experience depicted in the profile 
information presented to CMC.
Overall and on balance, the information presented to CMC in the course of Mr S application 
 and information it was entitled to rely on  confirmed an applicant profile with relevant and 
broadly requisite trading knowledge and experience, enough to safely conclude that he 
understood the risks associated with the account. On this basis, I do not find that the 
account should have been deemed inappropriate for him.
Putting things right
CMC must pay Mr S £200 for the trouble and upset caused to him in issue 1.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr S complaint but only with regards to the trouble 
and upset caused to him in issue 1. I order CMC Spreadbet Plc to pay him £200 in that 
respect.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman