DRN-2940805
The complaint
Mr B complains about poor service from St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc (SJP)
following advice he took from the business in 2011. He also complains that SJP failed to find
a new adviser for him, which hampered further financial decisions he wanted to make. 
What happened
Mr B has a personal pension plan with SJP. In 2011 he met with an SJP adviser to discuss
his financial situation, including other pension plans he had. SJP provided its 
recommendation to Mr B in March 2012, but Mr B chose not to follow the advice.
Mr B says he didnt have any other contact from the SJP adviser, and considers this has had
a detrimental effect on his finances. He says if hed consulted an alternative independent
financial adviser he would now be in a much stronger financial position.
Mr B contacted SJP in 2018 because he wanted to transfer one of his other pensions to his
SJP pension. SJP failed to promptly deal with the relevant paperwork and Mr Bs pension
wasnt transferred. SJP accepted that its service in connection with the pension transfer
wasnt as good as it shouldve been and offered Mr B £1,200 compensation.
SJP told Mr B the value of the pension he wanted to transfer might be below the minimum it
could accept. It said he should discuss this with his SJP adviser and said it would find a new
adviser for Mr B. But SJP didnt find a new adviser for Mr B, and he says this has prevented
him from taking action in connection with his pension, and investment of the compensation
offered by SJP.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that SJP
made Mr B aware of the basis on which it was providing advice in 2012. She also decided
there hadnt been any financial loss because Mr B had decided not to proceed with SJPs
advice to transfer his pension.
The investigator considered the compensation offered by SJP was fair, in connection with its
failure to act on Mr Bs transfer request in 2018. She also said SJP should arrange for a new
adviser to contact Mr B as soon as possible.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He didnt consider she had properly
identified the points hed complained about. Mr B asked for his complaint to be reviewed by
an ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 28 June 2021. Details of my provisional 
findings are set out below:
I noted that Mr B had said he was unhappy with the advice he got from his SJP 
adviser in 2012. And he considered lack of contact from the adviser between then 
and now had had a negative impact on his finances. Mr B said he wouldve been 
better served by seeking advice from an alternative independent financial adviser.
Id thought carefully about everything Mr B had said, and Id looked at the 
documentation SJP provided when it advised Mr B in 2012. SJPs recommendation 
letter said:
We agreed that, on this occasion you wanted to focus on planning for your 
retirement.
It also said:
Reviews
I strongly recommend that we conduct a review of your circumstances at regular 
intervals. I will write to you each year on the anniversary of your plan to provide you 
with an annual statement in respect of your funds so that we can arrange for a 
review.
Id asked SJP to provide a copy of the Key Facts about our services and costs 
document referred to in its recommendation letter. It had provided a sample of the 
document that it says wouldve been given to Mr B. Having reviewed the document, 
there was nothing to suggest that SJPs service included a commitment to provide 
regular reviews of Mr Bs investments.
Although I accepted that this seemed to be contrary to the above statement, it 
seemed the service Mr B signed up for was for SJP to advise and make a 
recommendation on investments and insurance, following an assessment of his 
needs.
I was also mindful that even though Mr B isnt a financial adviser, hed said that he 
was professionally qualified and had more than a laymans knowledge of the matters 
to be reviewed.
SJPs adviser had also said that he felt Mr B had a good understanding of pensions. 
He said at his last meeting with Mr B, he was left with the impression that Mr B 
probably wasnt looking for the type of ongoing service and support the adviser 
couldve offered.
From what Id seen, I thought SJPs recommendation letter suggested that regular 
reviews would be useful to Mr B, but I wasnt persuaded there was any contractual 
commitment from SJP for those reviews to take place. This would account for the 
seeming contradiction between the statement above and the actual service Mr B 
agreed to  and paid for. 
I also thought that if Mr B had wanted the reviews it might have been reasonable for 
him to contact SJP to find out why they werent taking place.
For that reason, I wasnt persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to find SJP 
responsible for any loss Mr B considered hes suffered as a result of the lack of 
reviews.
Mr B complained to SJP in 2019 because the business hadnt actioned a pension 
transfer request hed made in 2018. SJP accepted it was at fault but said the transfer 
value was probably below the minimum amount it could accept. It offered Mr B 
£1,200 compensation and said it would put in place a new adviser so Mr B could 
discuss the pension transfer and investment of the compensation amount.By the time Mr Bs complaint was reviewed by this service in January 2021, a new 
SJP adviser still hadnt been put in place for Mr B. SJP had recently told Mr B that it 
hasnt been able to find an adviser thats able to help him.
On balance, I thought it wouldve been reasonable for SJP to identify rather sooner 
than it did that it wouldnt be able to find an adviser that could help Mr B. Had it done 
so, this wouldve allowed Mr B to seek an alternative adviser sooner.
SJP had already offered Mr B £1,200 compensation in recognition that it didnt act on 
his pension transfer request. I considered that amount to be fair and reasonable,
and I wouldnt have awarded more than that if it hadnt already been offered.
But after very careful consideration, I was satisfied that SJP should also pay a small 
amount of additional compensation for its failure to tell Mr B in a timely manner that it 
couldnt find a new adviser for him. I considered a further £200 to be reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Mr B responded to say, in summary, that:
- Having been told by SJP that it couldnt find an adviser for him, hed received a letter 
from the adviser hed complained about asking whether Mr B would like to review his 
SJP pension. The adviser said he could recommend an alternative SJP adviser if 
necessary, which Mr B said was contradictory to what hed been told previously.
Mr B considered SJP should have procedures in place to appoint a new adviser 
where a client relationship breaks down, and he asked me to address this in my final 
decision.
- He considered it was unreasonable for the SJP adviser to conclude that Mr B hadnt 
wanted ongoing advice after the initial meeting in 2012. Mr B provided evidence of 
correspondence hed sent to the adviser, requesting further contact.
- He hadnt followed up the advisers initial advice because he didnt consider it was 
the comprehensive, tailored advice hed been led to expect he would receive. Mr B 
said hed expressed his dissatisfaction with the adviser in SJPs annual surveys, but 
the business hadnt provided any sort of response until 2019.
- He considered SJP wasnt interested in helping him make the pension transfer or 
compensation investment, because the amounts of money involved were relatively 
small value.
- An alternative external adviser wouldnt be able to advise on the transfer and 
investment, so he needed to have an SJP adviser in place.
SJP said it didnt have anything further to add in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr B has said in response to my provisional decision.
I accept that the evidence hes referred to shows he was pro-active in pursuing a response 
from the SJP adviser following their initial meetings in 2011 and 2012. And I can see that 
following the first meeting in the autumn of 2011, it took some time to gather the information 
required to provide advice to Mr B. SJP eventually sent its recommendation letter in March 
2012.
When SJP didnt hear from Mr B if followed up with a phone call in May 2020. Mr B 
responded by email and said:
Thank you for your telephone message.youll need to give me a bit more time to consider 
your letter. 
Mr B has said he didnt follow the advice in SJPs letter because he didnt consider it 
provided the comprehensive, tailored advice hed been led to expect he would receive. Ive 
also noted what Mr B has said about the SJP advisers motivations. Mr B considers the 
adviser was keen to pursue contacts Mr B may have had, and wasnt interested in 
maximising the potential of his relatively modest investments.
While I accept there was some delay in providing the initial advice, Im not persuaded this is 
evidence that SJP wasnt interested in Mr Bs custom. SJP did provide the advice, and it 
followed up with Mr B when it didnt hear from him.
I still consider it was Mr Bs choice not to follow the advice. And as I said in my provisional 
decision, Im not persuaded there was any contractual commitment by SJP to provide 
regular reviews to Mr B.
Mr B says he expressed his dissatisfaction with the adviser in SJPs annual surveys, but that 
SJP didnt provide any meaningful response until 2019. I can see why Mr B might consider 
that was poor practice by SJP. But if Mr B was genuinely unhappy with the service hed 
received from the adviser, I think it wouldve been reasonable for him to raise this as a direct 
complaint with SJP, rather than wait for a response to a more generic survey.
And as I said in my provisional decision, if Mr B had been expecting more regular contact 
from SJP I consider it wouldve been reasonable for him to find out why that wasnt 
happening.
So despite what Mr B has said, I still dont consider its reasonable to find SJP responsible 
for any loss Mr B considers hes suffered as a result of the lack of reviews since 2012.
Ive noted what Mr B has said about SJPs lack of procedures to appoint a new adviser where a client relationship breaks down. And it might be considered good practice to do so. 
But alternatively, it might also reasonably be concluded that, under such circumstances, it 
should be left to the client to request a new adviser, as and when they felt ready to do so. So 
I dont think I can conclude in this case that SJP acted unreasonably in not proactively 
sourcing a new adviser for Mr B. 
Ive asked SJP whether its possible for an external adviser to advise on the pension transfer 
and compensation investment. SJP has confirmed that only an appointed SJP 
representative can advise on its products and a transfer to SJP. But it has also confirmed 
that the amount of the pension Mr B wants to transfer is too small for SJP to accept, as 
would be the £1,400 compensation.
So even if SJP was able to find a representative for Mr B, it wouldnt be possible for him to 
make those investments with SJP. As such, this point doesnt change my overall conclusions 
about the complaint.
Having reconsidered all the available evidence, Im not minded to depart from the position 
set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
SJP should pay £200 in addition to the £1,200 it has offered.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct St. Jamess Place Wealth 
Management plc to pay £200 to Mr B, in addition to the £1,200 it has offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman