DRN-1925228
The complaint
Mr S complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down a claim under his 
private medical insurance policy.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
When Mr S contacted BUPA to advise it that he needed treatment for his condition, 
he didnt know what treatment his specialist intended to give him. BUPA explained to 
him that some treatments for that condition were covered, and some werent. I 
therefore agree with our investigator that Mr S was aware that there was a risk his 
treatment may not be covered. 
Once Mr S made BUPA aware of the treatment he was going to have, it confirmed 
that it wasnt covered. The policy excludes medication prescribed for out-patient 
treatment or for the insured to take home. As Mr Ss treatment was prescribed for 
out-patient treatment, Im satisfied that it falls under this exclusion and isnt payable. 
Mr S says that the treatment he was given is the only available treatment for his 
condition, and therefore BUPA ought to have known it wouldnt pay for this. However, 
BUPA has confirmed that another treatment option is available which can be given by 
injection which it would cover. And although this is normally combined with a second 
medication which is taken orally, it would make an exception and cover this second 
medication as the main injection would be covered. As BUPA could have covered 
treatment for the condition, I dont agree with Mr S that BUPA knew in advance that it 
wouldnt pay for Mr Ss treatment.
Mr S also makes the point that his treatment used to be covered. BUPA has 
confirmed it used to cover some medications taken orally, including one taken by 
Mr S. I understand the reason for that was because the medications couldnt be 
taken home on an out-patient basis and needed to be taken under the supervision of 
a specialist. However, in 2018 this medication became available on an out-patient 
basis and so BUPA decided to stop covering it, as it then became excluded. That 
decision was up to BUPA.     
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about BUPA Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman