DRN-1596761
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat) 
irresponsibly gave him loans he couldnt afford to pay back.
 What happened
 MoneyBoat gave Mr K two loans in June and July 2019. Heres a table showing details of 
those loans: 
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountMaximum
Repayment
1 12/06/2019 20/06/2019 4 £200.00 £68.83
2 09/07/2019 Outstanding 4 £400.00 £140.35
 
Mr K says that proportionate checks werent carried out before these loans were provided 
and in conjunction with credit he already had they were unsustainable and unaffordable for 
him. 
Our adjudicator thought that the information MoneyBoat had gathered about Mr Ks financial 
situation shouldve prompted it to carry out further checks to see if Mr K could really afford 
the loans he was asking MoneyBoat to provide  and she didnt think MoneyBoat shouldve 
given Mr K either of the loans. Our adjudicator set out the steps she thought MoneyBoat 
should take to put things right for Mr K. 
MoneyBoat didnt accept our adjudicators view and said that the checks undertaken were 
proportionate, the early stages of lending were automated and it would be unrealistic to sit 
and review every line of a credit file prior to lending, especially at the start of the relationship.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr K could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Although the borrowing looked affordable on the figures Mr K gave, the information 
MoneyBoat obtained about Mr Ks credit history showed that hed been relying significantly 
on short term loans for the previous couple of years. Given that this type of borrowing is 
intended to provide a short term fix in the event of temporary money problems, I think his 
borrowing record shouldve alerted MoneyBoat to the possibility that Mr K was having 
problems managing his money. 
So MoneyBoat shouldnt have loaned to Mr K without a more thorough check of his 
circumstances.
I think at this point MoneyBoat should have made some more detailed enquiries into his 
other lending as what Mr K told MoneyBoat about his finances appeared at odds with the 
information shown on the credit checks MoneyBoat did. If MoneyBoat had probed more 
deeply into Mr Ks circumstances it wouldve known that Mr K had at least five other payday 
loans outstanding when he first approached MoneyBoat so it was evident that he wasnt 
responsibly managing his money. And MoneyBoat shouldve realised when he asked for 
loan 1 that any further lending was unsustainable and it shouldnt have provided loans to 
Mr K.So Im upholding Mr Ks complaint about both these loans.
Putting things right
If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If MoneyBoat isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance (loan 1), not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr K which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr K originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans (loan 2) and treat any repayments made by Mr K as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr K having made overpayments then 
these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. MoneyBoat should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and 
move to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr K. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr K.
E. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Ks credit file for loan 1 and for loan 2 once it is 
repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint. Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat) 
should take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman