DRN-3878957
The complaint
Mr C complains about a decrease in the surrender value of a whole of life policy taken out 
with Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV). 
What happened
In September 2022 Mr C asked LV to surrender his whole of life policy and was told the 
surrender value was around £3,700. 
Mr C complained to LV saying he had been told in 2019, and again more recently, that the 
surrender value was around £9,000, and he wanted to know why it had gone down so much. 
LV said they had recently changed their approach to calculating death benefits and cash in 
values. 
Unhappy with this, as he felt LV had broken their contract with him, Mr C brought his 
complaint to our service. 
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and thought changing how policy values 
are calculated was a business decision LV was entitled to make. They went on to say the 
primary purpose of the policy was to pay out on death of the policyholder and that surrender 
values are never guaranteed. They also confirmed this calculation change wasnt a change 
in the terms and conditions and that there was no requirement of LV to notify Mr C when this 
happened. 
Mr C remained unhappy saying LV had broken the contract and that he hadnt been treated 
fairly. Because an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr C that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Im summarised some 
things which reflects the informal nature of our service, and no discourtesy is intended. If I 
dont comment on a specific point, its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think I 
need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
The main purpose of a whole of life policy is to pay a guaranteed sum assured when the 
policyholder dies. The policy for Mr C had a sum assured of £1,172 which has always 
remained the same. So the contractual amount LV wouldve paid didnt change.
What does change over time with this type of policy is the death benefit and surrender value. 
In September 2022 LV confirmed the following details about Mr Cs policy:
Start date Premium 
AmountPremiums to 
dateSum assured Current death 
benefitCurrent 
Surrender Value
20/6/1981 £1.52 per month £752.40 £1,172 £5,665.77 £3,789.27
When providing this information LV said the death and surrender values are not guaranteed 
and subject to change. 
Previous statements sent to Mr C said that final bonus amounts may be different at the time 
of claim. 
The original policy documents say LV would pay the appropriate sum (the sum assured of 
£1,172) together with any bonus which may have been added. 
Looking at this information Im satisfied that LV made clear the only guaranteed pay out of 
the policy was the sum assured. And that any amount above the sum assured, which may 
be accrued through bonuses, wasnt guaranteed. 
Its not unusual for the way in which bonuses are calculated to change over time. Here LV 
made a change to ensure fair treatment of all policies by more accurately reflecting the 
amounts paid in by each policyholder. This meant that the surrender values changed for all 
policyholders. Doing this isnt a fundamental change to the contract which is, as Ive 
explained above, to pay the agreed sum assured. And maintaining life cover is the main 
purpose of the policy. 
Mr C feels he is being treated unfairly and that LV have broken the terms of the contract 
without any notice. I can see why Mr S feels this way however the contract hasnt been 
broken as the calculation of any possible bonuses doesnt form part of the contract. 
Making such a change is a business decision that LV are entitled to make. I also dont think 
they did anything wrong by not telling policyholders before making the change. 
Mr C says that LV have stolen his money however I cant agree that is the case. Mr C was 
previously given information about surrender values and they appear to have been correct at 
the time they were given. However LV have made clear since the start of the policy that any 
surrender value isnt guaranteed. 
After carefully considering everything that happened, Im satisfied LV treated Mr C fairly and 
reasonably so wont be asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman