DRN-4183549
The complaint
Miss M complains that TSB Bank plc did not give her the full criteria to be eligible for the 
switch incentive for switching her bank account to TSB.
What happened
Miss M says that she found a switch offer for TSB on a third party website. She says the link 
took her to TSBs website where she opened an account and she phoned TSB to get a 
switching form. Miss M says that on the call, she was told by the call handler that to be 
eligible for the switch incentive of £125, she would need to fully switch her bank account to 
them and switch two direct debits to the new account. 
Miss M says that a month after switching over her account, she contacted TSB as she didnt 
receive the £125 switch incentive, but they told her she hadnt made a debit card transaction, 
so she didnt qualify. Miss M says the debit card transaction criteria was not stated 
anywhere, neither on the third party website or TSBs website. Miss M made a complaint to 
TSB.
TSB partially upheld Miss Ms complaint. They said when she initiated the switch via the third 
party website she would have been informed of the criteria required to qualify, therefore they 
were unable to agree to cover the incentive as the criteria was not met. TSB said that 
although they had been unable to locate her call to them, they dont doubt her version of 
events and they apologised for any trouble and upset caused by this human error. TSB 
credited £25 into her account as an apology. Miss M brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ms complaint. He said having listened to the call from 
10 November 2022 that Miss M had with TSB, they did not provide her with misleading 
information. He said they advised her of the deadline for the switch incentive, but they didnt 
tell her about the qualifying criteria. Miss M asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from TSBs internal criteria that a debit card transaction was required as part of the 
eligibility criteria for the £125. But Im not persuaded that because this was published 
internally in TSB, that this meant it would be automatically published on the third party 
website.
While TSB dont have a copy of the third party website, they have directed me to a third 
party archive webpage. Using the link Miss M sent me, I have been able to locate what I 
believe to be the webpage that Miss M would have seen. I say this as the archive webpage 
shows that a snapshot of the website displaying the offer was taken on 6 October 2022. I will 
ask our investigator to forward this to Miss M in due course. TSB have said Miss Ms 
account was opened on 7 October 2022. There was no new snapshot of the webpage on 7 
October 2022. So its reasonable that the information on 6 October 2022 would have been 
the same as the information on 7 October 2022 relating to the incentive. So Ive looked at 
the wording of the website to see if this mentions her needing to spend on the debit card as 
part of the criteria. The wording says:
How to get the £125 bonus:
Open a new account via our links by Mon 31 Oct, then by Fri 18 Nov: complete a switch, 
spend using the debit card, log on to online or mobile banking and have 2+ direct debits. 
Once complete, the bonus will be paid by 16 Dec 22.
So Im satisfied that by the wording showing that by 18 November saying spend using the 
debit card would show that Miss M would need to spend on her debit card. I have looked at 
the wording on the snapshots before and after 6 October 2022 (4 October and 11 October 
2022) and these both also say spend using the debit card. So Im persuaded that this 
wording was on the website when Miss M initiated the switch, and she ought to have been 
aware of this requirement. It appears from Miss Ms statements that the first spend using the 
debit card was on 30 December 2022, which means that Miss M unfortunately wasnt 
available for the £125 incentive. So Im satisfied TSB did not make an error here.
Ive listened to the phone call Miss M had with TSB. Miss M asked what the date of her 
switch was. The call handler confirms she hasnt done the switch yet. The call handler tells 
her how to finalise this. The call handler confirms the deadline and Miss M visits TSBs 
website. So from listening to the call Im not persuaded that Miss M was given misleading 
information. TSB had given Miss M £25 as they couldnt locate the call, but now they have 
located the call and she wasnt given incorrect information. So it follows I dont require TSB 
to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman