DRN-3764431
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont reimburse any of the loss he
suffered when he sent money to one of their customers as the result of an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In February 2019 Mr H made two
payments, each for £50,000, through an account he held with another firm Ill refer to as W.
The payments both went to the same account that was held with NatWest. At the time Mr H
says he believed he was investing in a bond, but he later discovered that it was in fact a
scam.
When Mr H discovered the scam, he contacted NatWest. Ultimately NatWest said that Mr H
should report this to W and raise a dispute through them, they declined to offer any refund.
Mr H provided evidence of complaint responses, which he says were issued to victims of the
same scam where payments had also been made to NatWest. Part of these indicated that
NatWest had accepted some fault in relation to the account in question and had agreed to
offer a 50% reimbursement. Mr H would like to be treated in the same way and to receive a
similar refund. He also mentioned that he believed NatWest had opened an account for a
fraudulent entity without conducting proper due diligence.
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our Investigators thought we couldnt
address all of Mr Hs complaint points. She said she couldnt comment on the opening of the
account by NatWest as that was out of our jurisdiction. And for what she could consider, she
didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr H didnt accept what our Investigator said and asked for an Ombudsman to review his
complaint. I issued a jurisdiction decision explaining that I can only consider
NatWests actions on or after 31 January 2019 in relation to the account that received Mr Hs
funds. In January 2023 I then went on to issue a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant comment on NatWests actions when opening the account in question as that took
place before 31 January 2019. There isnt anything with regard to either the activity on the
account, or the receipt of notifications of fraud or similar between 31 January and early
March 2019 (when Mr Hs funds were paid away) that means I think NatWest ought to have
done anything differently. The account followed its established pattern of use and there isnt
anything that I think ought to have prompted any intervention by NatWest within that time
period.
So overall I dont think NatWest could have prevented Mr Hs loss in this way. And by the
time Mr H contacted NatWest, his funds had already been spent from the account, so I also
dont think there were any failures by NatWest when responding to his allegation of a scam
that impacted on the amount of money returned. It was also reasonable for NatWest to
advise Mr H to raise this through W (his own bank / payment service provider), as this is
standard industry practice in these circumstances.
Mr H has placed a lot of weight on two extracts from complaint responses from other
regulated financial firms. He says these relate to other victims of the same scam. One of
these states that the beneficiary banks assessment of the receiving account has concluded
that they could have done more to stop the scam. Another says: I am pleased RBS have
accepted partial liability and you have had £17,500 refunded on 11 March 2020. 
Ive considered these, and whilst I have no reason to doubt Mr Hs credibility, for one of the
responses there is nothing to support that it is referring to NatWest. And there is nothing to
conclusively evidence that either response related to payments made to the same account
that Mr H paid. I also note that the date of one of the refunds was around a year after Mr Hs
money had already been paid from the account hed paid. As such Im not persuaded that I
can rely on this evidence to support that there was an error by NatWest which means that
they should provide a refund (whether full or partial) to Mr H.
Further to this, neither of the responses were written by NatWest, and so I dont agree that
they form the basis of an admission of liability or set a precedent for them to always refund
part of a scam victims loss. There could be a number of factors which will influence any
refund or offer made.
Im sorry to hear that Mr H lost such a significant amount of money to a scam. But in the
context of the limits of my jurisdiction to consider this complaint, I dont think NatWest are
responsible for the loss, hindered its recovery or obliged to provide reimbursement for any
other reasons. As such, Im not intending to direct that they need to do more to resolve this
complaint.
Neither NatWest nor Mr H responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded with any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I 
see no reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 Richard Annandale
Ombudsman