DRN-2848396
The complaint
 Miss D complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited has unreasonably declined a 
cancellation claim made under her travel insurance policy.
What happened
 On 14 January 2020 Miss D and her partner Mr G booked a skiing holiday abroad. Their 
holiday was due to take place from 8 March to 15 March 2020. 
On 20 February 2020 Miss Ds hospital wrote and confirmed it would admit her for an 
operation for a pre-existing medical condition on 17 March 2020. Miss D and Mr G spoke to 
her consultant in the meantime who said she was fit to go on the holiday.
On 23 February 2020 Miss D purchased a multi-trip annual travel insurance policy, 
underwritten by Astrenska. It covered her for the period 23 February 2020  22 February 
2021. Mr G had a separate policy with Astrenska which renewed a few days later. Miss D 
declared two pre-existing medical conditions, including the one she was awaiting surgery for, 
and paid an additional premium to cover these. 
On 6 March 2020 Miss D was told by the hospital that NHS England guidance had changed, 
and she wouldnt be able to attend the hospital within 2 weeks of returning from her holiday 
destination. This meant Miss D would miss her operation if she attended the holiday. 
Miss D and Mr G contacted Astrenska who advised that cancelling the holiday on the advice 
of her consultant would be a valid claim under her policy. They were told theyd need 
cancellation invoices to complete their claims, and on the basis of this information cancelled 
their booking and submitted the relevant documents to Astrenska. 
On 28 May 2020 Astrenska advised that it was declining their claims. It said the medical 
advice Miss D had provided said she was fit to travel and she would only miss her operation 
due to the requirement for 2 weeks self-isolation upon return from the holiday. It said its 
policy only offers cancellation cover if someone is unfit to travel on the dates of the holiday 
itself.
Miss D and Mr G complained to Astrenska but it didnt change its position. So they brought 
their complaint to our service. 
As Miss D and Mr G had separate policies, we have looked at their complaints separately. 
To be clear, I am only addressing Miss Ds complaint here. 
Our investigator felt that Astrenska had acted unfairly when it declined Miss Ds claim. They 
said that being subject to quarantine is covered by the policy and pointed out Astrenska 
had taken on the risk of cancellation due to Miss Ds medical conditions  which shed also 
advised it surgery was planned for.
Astrenska didnt agree with this view, so the case has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reaching my decision, Ive given regard to industry rules set out by the regulator which 
say that an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly, and shouldnt unreasonably reject 
a claim.
The most relevant section of the policy in dispute is as follows:
 Section 1: Cancellation
YOU ARE COVERED
Up to the amount shown in the policy documentation for your proportion of costs only if 
your travel, accommodation and pre-booked excursions up to £250 are cancelled before 
your departure from your country of residence (including ski hire, ski school and lift passes 
for winter sports trips where the appropriate premium has been paid), which have not been 
used and which you have paid, or are contracted to pay, providing the cancellation is 
necessary and unavoidable due to: 
1. the death or disablement by bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of: 
a. you; or 
b. an immediate relative of yours, or 
c. a travelling companion; or 
d. any person you are intending to travel to or stay with; or 
e. a close business associate of yours;

It also goes on to say under this section that: 
YOU ARE NOT COVERED
.
2.  For claims arising due to a medical condition where a medical practitioner did not 
confirm that cancellation of the trip was necessary prior to the trip being cancelled.
3. If you decide you no longer want to travel
I know Astrenska will likely be very disappointed, but Ive reached the same conclusion as 
our investigator did here. In these very specific and individual circumstances I dont think it 
was reasonable for Astrenska to decline Miss Ds claim. Ill set out why:
Miss D had declared the medical condition the operation was intending to treat when 
shed taken out her travel insurance policy. And shed paid an additional premium to 
Astrenska in return for its acceptance of the risk that a valid claim related to these 
medical conditions may arise. I can see from Astrenskas medical screening information that Miss D answered yes 
when asked if she was awaiting surgery for one of these conditions. I cant see there 
was any further requirement for her to advise if this surgery was scheduled, or when 
it was due to take place. 
I agree with Astrenskas assertion that Miss D was well enough to travel as shed 
planned. However, Astrenska says that as the cancellation was due to an event that 
was to take place after Miss Ds holiday, the circumstances arent covered by its 
policy. But I cant see that subsection 1 of the cancellation section of the policy 
specifically says this. 
As set out above, the policy refers to the cancellation being made before your 
departure  which it was here. Miss D cancelled her holiday on 6 March 2020, 2 
days before she was due to depart on 8 March 2020.
The policy also says that the cancellation must be necessary and unavoidable. Its 
clear to me that it was necessary for Miss D to cancel her holiday to enable her 
operation to go ahead as planned. She was advised by medical staff on 6 March 
2020 that if she travelled as planned, she would not have been able to attend the 
hospital for her operation due to NHS England guidance now requiring two weeks 
self-isolation on return from her holiday destination. This has been confirmed by her 
GP and consultant.
I also dont think its in dispute that the operation was medically necessary. Astrenska 
itself has said it doesnt think Miss D would have put her operation at risk and gone 
on her holiday even if she and Mr G hadnt been led to believe they had valid claims 
when they first contacted it about the situation.    
The policy covers cancellation due to being subject of quarantine. The term 
quarantine isnt defined in the policy. Nor does the policy make any reference to 
who is enforcing the quarantine or why. Like our investigator, I think its reasonable to 
say that a two-week self-isolation requirement is a form of quarantine. The 
Cambridge Dictionary defines quarantine as a specific period of time in which 
a person or animal that has a disease, or may have one, must stay or be kept away 
from others in order to prevent the spread of the disease. And the two-week self-
isolation period Miss D would have been subject to here under NHS England 
guidance was implemented to help prevent the spread of Covid-19, which had 
become prevalent in her holiday destination at that time.
Its true Miss D wasnt subject to quarantine before going on the holiday. But she 
would have been on her return. And that quarantine would have been brought about 
as a direct result of having gone on the holiday. 
I dont think Miss D could reasonably have foreseen this quarantine requirement at 
the time she booked her holiday, or when she purchased her insurance on 23 
February 2020. And I dont think its reasonable to expect Miss D to have gone on the 
holiday and missed her operation. Its clear she had been waiting for it for a long 
time.
I appreciate that the Covid-19 pandemic has given rise to unique and unprecedented 
circumstances. But for the reasons Ive explained above I think the specific and 
individual circumstances of Miss Ds claim falls within the scope of cancellation cover 
provided by the policy. And I dont think Astrenskas decision to decline the claim was 
a fair outcome for Miss D in the circumstances.Astrenska has stated that it believes the Tour Operator Miss D was due to travel with 
should have provided her with a refund as the destination she was due to travel to 
went into quarantine on 8 March 2020  the date shed been due to travel. On 9 
March 2020 the government of that country then imposed a nationwide lockdown. 
But Miss D and Mr G had already cancelled their holiday prior to this point, and Ive 
seen the cancellation invoice which confirms the cancellation cost totaled the cost of 
the booking. So I dont think its reasonable for Astrenska to decline her claim on this 
basis.
Astrenska has agreed it led Miss D and Mr G to believe it would meet their claims 
when they first contacted it about the situation. The investigator noted Astrenska had 
paid £50 compensation to Mr G by way of apology for this, and felt it would also be 
reasonable for it to extend the same offer to Miss D. I agree this is reasonable in the 
circumstances. Its clear it provided misleading information at that point and its 
subsequent declinature has caused Miss D distress and inconvenience.
 
Putting things right
Astrenska should accept the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy 
and calculate settlement in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It 
should add 8% simple interest to any settlement made, calculated from the date of claim to 
the date of settlement.
Astrenska should also pay Miss D an additional £50 by way of compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the service it provided to her.
If Astrenska considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss D how much its taken off. It should also give Miss D a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Astrenska Insurance Limited to put things right as Ive 
directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman