DRN-3026153
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the way Zurich Insurance plc (Zurich) handled his home insurance 
claim following a leak from the property above. Mr L is the property leaseholder and benefits 
from a block residential insurance policy covering the whole building. Ill refer to Zurich 
throughout my decision, and any reference to its actions include those of its agents and 
contractors.
What happened
Mr L was due to move into his new home, but an escape of water from the property above 
caused significant damage preventing him from doing so. He claimed under the block 
residential home insurance policy and Zurich accepted his claim.
While the claim itself was settled, Mr L complained to Zurich about the way it handled his 
claim. He complained about:
delays;
contractors leaving mould-ridden debris behind;
financial pressure of running two households;
project managing the work, and
ill health caused by stress.
Although uncertain that its contractors left debris behind, Zurich apologised and paid for its 
removal. It also offered £600 compensation to Mr L for the delays and overall inconvenience 
hed experienced. Mr L didnt think it was enough. He asked for more compensation and a 
payment to cover his fuel costs for driving to the property to project manage repairs. 
However, Zurich didnt think it was responsible for any additional expenses and it maintained 
its offer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because he thought Zurichs offer was fair in the 
circumstances. Our investigator said the compensation adequately addressed the 
inconvenience caused directly by Zurichs handling of the claim, but he didnt think it was 
necessary to pay Mr Ls fuel costs for visiting the property. Our investigator thought Zurich 
had acted fairly in line with industry rules and he didnt recommend any further action.
Mr L didnt agree. He said that, as a leaseholder, he didnt have any influence over the policy 
cover, but he believed it should put him back in the position he was in before the claim. Mr L 
provided several articles about mould growth supporting his view that they wouldve 
presented a significant risk to him and his young family, and he didnt think the debris was 
left as an oversight.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr L will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
My role is to decide whether Zurich treated Mr L fairly when handling his claim. If not, then I 
must decide whether Zurich did enough to put matters right.
It seems the claim itself is not in dispute. Zurich accepted the claim and completed the 
repairs, but Mr L says there were delays. Ive looked at the timeline provided by each party 
and I can see that works were completed around eight months after Mr L first made the 
claim. The damage was substantial and there would always have been some delay and 
inconvenience as a result of the incident itself. 
However, I can see from the timeline, and Zurich accepted, that there were avoidable 
delays. Zurich offered Mr L £600 compensation, in part to acknowledge these delays. I think 
thats fair because Zurich pointed out that Mr L and his family hadnt moved to the property, 
so the impact wouldve been limited to the delay moving in. And some of that delay was due 
to the incident itself rather than anything Zurich did or didnt do.
I agree that the delays were avoidable but, given the above, Im satisfied that Zurichs offer 
was fair.
Moving on, I can see that Mr L is still very upset about the debris left in the floor void and the 
possible risk to his familys health. Although Zurich didnt think its contractors had purposely 
left anything, it apologised for leaving the debris and paid for Mr Ls contractor to remove it. 
But Mr L doesnt think thats enough because of the potential health problems linked to 
mould growth.
Ive thought carefully about this issue. The information Mr L provided was about the rather 
worrying harm mould spores can cause to people. I understand he has a very young family 
and he would, naturally, have been worried about the impact such mould spores might have 
on their health. However, I cant reasonably ask Zurich to pay for something that mightve 
happened but didnt. The simple fact is that after Mr L saw the debris in the floor void, he told 
Zurich and it covered the cost of removal. So, although I understand he wouldve been 
worried about the mould if hed lived there and the debris was discovered years later, thats 
not what happened. 
Zurich paid for removal of the debris which wouldve placed Mr L in the position he wouldve 
been in had the debris never been left. He and his family werent living there at the time, so 
they wouldnt have been affected. 
Thats not to say its acceptable to leave the debris behind. But Mr L said Zurich left it 
maliciously and thats a strong allegation which Id need to see evidence of. Ive looked at 
Zurichs investigation into this matter, but I cant see anything which indicates its agents did 
anything maliciously. The photos Mr L supplied dont provide that evidence either. So, in its 
absence, I have no reason to think that the debris was left on purpose or to cause harm.
Again, thinking about the compensation Zurich paid to Mr L, I think its a fair sum by way of 
apology for the overall shortfalls in its handling of his claim. I know Mr L doesnt think its 
enough when considering the harm that mightve been caused to his family. But as theres 
no evidence that harm was caused, thankfully, I see no reason to ask Zurich to increase its 
offer. Mr L thinks Zurich should reimburse his fuel costs for the once or twice weekly trips he made 
to oversee the repair work. Zurich said its loss adjuster was overseeing the work and there 
was no requirement for Mr L to visit as often as he did. Ive thought about the reasons Zurich 
gave for not paying Mr Ls fuel costs. It explained that he hadnt moved in to the property 
when the damage happened so he wouldnt have been collecting personal items. Zurich also 
said he had his own contractor in doing work and any visits were more likely to oversee the 
private works. 
I understand Mr L employed his own contractor because Zurich would only refit the 
bathroom and kitchen with the old furnishings. So, he arranged for his contractor to install 
new furniture. Regardless of why Mr L employed a contractor, I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Zurich refused to cover his travel costs. Zurich said it could understand 
that Mr L mightve visited a couple of times during the works, but it didnt think it was 
necessary for him to visit as often as he did. 
Given that it was Zurichs responsibility to ensure its own contractors completed the work 
properly, and a loss adjuster was overseeing the work, I think its fair that Zurich didnt think 
Mr L needed to visit as often as he did. On balance, I think Zurichs explanation that Mr L 
visited because of the additional work he was having done using his private contractor is a 
reasonable one. I see no reason to ask Zurich to pay Mr Ls fuel costs.
Finally, Mr L thought Zurich should compensate him for his financial and emotional strain, 
which he believes was a direct result of the claim. While Zurich accepted that it had 
contributed to some delays, it explained that claims of this nature will always take some time 
to settle and, therefore, cause a certain amount of stress. I think thats a fair comment, but 
Ive looked at whether Zurich did anything to keep the impact on Mr L and his family to a 
minimum. 
Although Mr L said he was running two households for eight months, causing a financial 
strain, I see that Zurich paid for his alternative accommodation, which I understand was his 
previous home which he hadnt yet moved out of. And, as Ive already explained, Zurich 
removed the debris which Mr L was worried about, so there shouldnt have been any further 
cause for concern. I realise Mr Ls repeated trips to visit the property wouldve been time-
consuming and possibly stressful, but, as Ive said, I think Zurich fairly concluded that most 
of his visits wouldve been to oversee his private kitchen and bathroom works.
Overall, Im satisfied that Zurich covered the cost of Mr Ls alternative accommodation, 
minimising the financial impact, and compensated him fairly for the avoidable delays. Zurich 
paid the cost of removing the debris and, on balance, I think it provided a reasonable 
explanation for Mr Ls repeated visits to his new home before the work was completed. The 
evidence doesnt persuade me that Zurich treated Mr L unfairly, here, and I think its 
compensation offer is reasonable in the circumstances. I wont be asking Zurich to do any 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman