DRN-3981992
The complaint
Ms A complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly withdrew a mortgage offer it had made to 
her. She thinks Santander withdrew the offer because it didnt want to honour the 
competitive five-year fixed rate deal due to changes in financial market conditions and she 
says it has acted in breach of the terms and conditions of the offer.
Ms A says Santanders actions have had a detrimental impact on her retirement and pension 
planning and have caused her distress and professional embarrassment.
What happened
Ms A says her plan for her retirement was to have two mortgage free properties by the time 
she finished working. She already had one property with a mortgage with Santander, and 
she wanted to purchase a second property in her hometown. Upon her retirement, she 
intended to move into the second property on a permanent basis and let out her current 
property to generate an income to live off.
Ms A found a property and applied for a mortgage with Santander through an independent 
broker. In February 2022, Santander issued a mortgage offer. This was for a loan amount of 
£209,700 with a term of 29 years. Ms A was to pay a fixed rate of interest at 1.69% until May 
2027. After this she would pay Santanders Follow-on Rate.
Unfortunately, in April 2022, Ms As property purchase fell through. Shortly afterwards, 
Ms A found another property and her broker submitted a Substitute of Property form to 
Santander as required.
Ms A felt confident the change of property would be acceptable because the mortgage offer 
was still valid until 29 July 2022 and the purchase price of the substitute property was above 
the minimum value set out in the illustration in the offer to borrow the amount required. 
However, Santander decided the application needed to be assessed again, as if it was a 
brand-new application, and it applied its current lending criteria.
In June 2022, Ms A was told the maximum loan amount available to her had been reduced 
to £163,800. This meant she was no longer able to proceed with the purchase of the 
property.
Ms A felt the original mortgage offer had been withdrawn unfairly and Santander had acted 
in breach of the terms and conditions of the offer, so she registered a formal complaint.
Santander issued a final response letter in June 2022. In summary, it said it had needed to 
review Ms As original application due to the length of time that had passed since her original 
application, and it had treated the change of property and a change of term as a material 
change to the application. It explained the loan amount offered had been reduced due 
changes in its affordability criteria arising from the increasing cost of living and the current 
financial climate.
In July 2022 Santander confirmed it was satisfied Ms As application had been reassessed in 
line with its current criteria and lending policy and no error had been made.
Since Ms A was unhappy with Santanders responses, she registered a complaint with our 
service. In summary, she said:
Her mortgage offer dated February 2022 was legally binding once issued and 
available to her until 29 July 2022.
The offer was withdrawn unfairly and in breach of the terms and conditions as there 
had been no material change to her mortgage application.
She had to withdraw from the property purchase at significant personal and financial 
cost as it had formed part of her retirement and pension planning, and this had been 
explained to Santander at the outset.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms As complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. 
In summary, she didnt think Santander had treated Ms A unfairly or acted outside its terms 
of business.
Ms A didnt agree with the investigator. As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive carefully reviewed the mortgage offer issued by Santander in February 2022 and its 
clear that the offer was made specifically for the purchase of the property detailed in the 
offer.  
In Part A of the mortgage offer, it shows the address of the property as the Mortgaged 
Property and it goes on to say that the document was produced on the basis of the 
information that had been provided so far.
Santander says it considers a change of property to be a material change to the application 
and it has provided evidence of its relevant lending criteria from that time. Having reviewed 
this information, its clear that where theres a change of property, Santander would treat this 
as a new application. So, Im satisfied it has acted in line with its lending criteria at that time.
Ive taken into consideration Ms As comment that the purchase price of the substitute 
property was above the minimum value set out in the offer. However, it is up to Santander to 
decide the level of risk it is willing to take and on what terms it is willing to lend.I do appreciate Ms A feels strongly that Santander has unfairly withdrawn the offer. 
However, I dont agree. Im satisfied the offer was made for the first property Ms A wanted to 
purchase, and when the property that the loan would be secured against changed, 
Santander treated this as a new application in line with its lending criteria.
Santander says in its letter dated June 2022 that it also treated a change in the term as a 
material change to the application. Ms A says the request to reduce the term was made 
without her knowledge or consent and doesnt think it is material. I can see from the 
information provided by Santander that the reduction in the term was requested by Ms As 
broker in response to Santanders initial decision to decline the application after it had 
reassessed things. This request was therefore made after Santander had already decided to 
treat the application as a new one.
Unfortunately, market conditions had changed by the time Ms As application was assessed 
again. Santander says it had amended its lending criteria in light of the increasing cost of 
living and the current financial climate. Following Santanders reassessment of the 
application, Ms A was offered a lower amount than shed previously been offered, which 
meant she was no longer able to proceed with the purchase of the property.  
Santander has provided information about its lending criteria and what was taken into 
consideration when reassessing Ms As application. Im entitled to treat this as confidential 
because its commercially sensitive. But after considering this information, Im satisfied that 
Santander reached its decision fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors, including 
its risk appetite, and Ms As specific circumstances.
I do appreciate Ms As upset and disappointment. However, after considering everything, Im 
not satisfied that Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman