DRN-1336947
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar) acted irresponsibly when it gave him 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
This complaint is about loans Myjar provided to Mr S between October 2015 and December 
2018. There was a long break in lending between July 2017 and September 2018, and a 
smaller gap (around 4 months) between early June and late September 2016. 
Mr S took out loans that were mostly due to be paid back by way of 6 monthly repayments. 
And except for loan 8, he repaid the loans  but he hasnt yet repaid the last loan he took 
out. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans: 
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest
Repayment
104/10/2015 13/11/2015 1 £100.00 £132.00
215/12/2015 14/04/2016 6 £1,475.00 £450.89
323/05/2016 02/06/2016 1 £100.00 £131.20
428/09/2016 27/11/2016 6 £600.00 £188.90
527/11/2016 02/12/2016 6 £725.00 £224.27
602/12/2016 10/07/2017 6 £725.00 £226.92
719/09/2018 30/11/2018 3 £250.00 £135.43
804/12/2018 Outstanding 6 £1,000.00 £305.68
 
Mr S said that the loans were inappropriate for his needs and led to longer term hardship 
and even greater financial difficulty, which has caused him ongoing distress.Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He didnt feel hed seen enough to say that 
Myjar shouldnt have lent loans 1-4 or loans 7 and 8. But he thought that Myjar shouldnt 
have approved loans 5 and 6 and he recommended steps that Myjar should take to put 
things right for Mr S.
Myjar disagreed with our adjudicator and said it felt its checks were proportionate and it 
wasnt sure our adjudicator had properly considered everything  including the gap in 
lending between loans 3 and 4.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Myjar should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Myjar to give Mr S loans 1 to 4 on the 
basis of the information he gave about his income and outgoings. It was early in the lending 
relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Myjar to agree to lend. 
And like the adjudicator, I think the gap in lending between loans 6 and 7 was long enough 
for Myjar to think that Mr S mightn't have needed to depend on high cost short term loans 
during this period. This meant that when his borrowing started again, and Mr S applied for 
loan 7 in September 2018, over a year after hed paid loan 6, he was effectively starting over 
again. So I think it was fair for Myjar to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess 
his lending requests accordingly. And I agree with our adjudicator that we havent seen 
enough to be able to uphold Mr Ss complaint about loans 7 and 8.
As it seems Mr S hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendations in 
relation to loans 1-4 and loans 7 and 8, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
I dont think that Myjar shouldve given Mr S loan 5 without carrying out a more thorough 
check of his financial circumstances  over and above the checks it told us about - to see if 
the loan really was sustainably affordable for him.
I think that by now, Myjar shouldve been concerned that Mr Ss track record of borrowing 
was at odds with what he was telling Myjar about his finances. So it needed to enquire more 
deeply into his financial circumstances. 
Myjar had noted that Mr S said he was spending around £350 on other creditor repayments 
when he applied for loan 5. 
But if Myjar had asked more probing questions, and specifically enquired about other short 
term lending, it shouldve found out that Mr S had a well established record of borrowing 
significant amounts on other payday loans  and he was actively paying for at least three 
other short term high cost loans when he took out loan 5. Myjar wouldve seen the signs that 
Mr S had become dependent on this sort of credit and he wasnt using these high cost loans 
as intended to cover a temporary shortfall or an unexpected one off cost. So Myjar shouldve 
realised that further lending was unsustainable.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Myjars lending history with Mr S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Myjar should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say this because: 
when Mr S took out loan 6, Myjar could see that this was the third time in a row that 
hed repaid a loan early and quickly borrowed again. He took out loan 5 the same 
day he paid loan 4 (well before the due date), and he started loan 6 the same day 
hed paid loan 5 (just five days or so after hed taken it out). 
 
the loan amounts had varied - but I think Myjar shouldve realised that overall there 
were clear indications that Mr S was having money problems. Loan 6 was more than 
seven times the amount of loan 1 and the same amount as loan 5 that hed just 
repaid
 his track record of borrowing again soon after early repayment of the previous loan 
indicates that Mr Ss finances were unstable and he was having difficulty managing 
his spending on borrowing 
 
I think Myjar ought to have realised it was likely Mr S was having to borrow further to 
cover a shortfall in his finances each time he paid the previous loan  so it shouldve 
realised that this was unsustainable for him 
 
this is borne out by the fact that Mr S has a balance outstanding on loan 8.
 
I think that Mr S lost out when Myjar provided loan 6 because this loan had the effect of 
unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit over an 
extended period of time. And the number of loans Mr S borrowed was likely to impact 
adversely on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for high-
cost loans. By loan 6 any further borrowing was likely to be damaging to his credit rating.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 and 6 and Myjar should put things right.
Putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
If Myjar has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Myjar isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the following:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 5 and 6.
 
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
 
C) The amounts calculated in A and B should be used to repay any balance outstanding 
on loan 8. If there is anything left over after paying loan 8 this surplus should be paid to 
Mr S. However if there is still an outstanding balance then Myjar (or the third party debt 
owner) should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. 
 
E) Myjar should remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file for loan 5. The 
overall pattern of Mr Ss borrowing by loan 6 means any information recorded about this loan 
is adverse. So all entries about loan 6 should be removed from Mr Ss credit file. And Myjar 
should ask any debt purchaser to do the same. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to deduct tax from this interest. Myjar should give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint about loans 5 and 6. MYJAR Limited 
(Myjar) should take the steps to put things right set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman