DRN-4208368
The complaint
Ms D complains that she was mis-sold a timeshare product and the loan used to finance the 
purchase. The loan was provided by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (now Mitsubishi HC Capital UK 
Plc), which Ill refer to as Hitachi Capital.
Ms D has been represented by a claims management business, which Ill refer to as F. 
Where I refer to Ms Ds submissions and arguments, I include those made on her behalf. 
What happened
Ms D says that, when she and a relative were on holiday in Spain in October 2017, they 
were invited to attend a short presentation. That presentation turned out to be a lengthy and 
high-pressured sales pitch. 
Following the presentation  and as result of it  Ms D and her relative agreed to buy 12,000 
Points Rights and membership of the Diamond Resorts European Collection Limited at a 
cost of £14,900. The purchase agreement recorded that the seller was  Diamond Resorts 
(Europe) Limited (DRL). To fund the purchase, Ms D took out a ten-year loan with Hitachi 
Capital. 
In March 2019 Ms D complained to Hitachi Capital, and in July 2019 that complaint was 
referred to this service. In summary, Ms Ds complaint is: 
The commission paid to DRL for arranging the loan had not been disclosed. 
DRL misrepresented the club membership. She therefore has a claim against DRL and, 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, a like claim against Hitachi Capital. 
The sales process was pressured, and she did not have a proper opportunity to 
consider the sale and finance documents.
The loan agreement created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act. 
Hitachi Capital had not carried out proper checks to ensure that the loan was affordable 
for Ms D.  
Her membership of the club was of little or no value.
The misrepresentations alleged by Ms D included that she would have additional availability 
of holiday accommodation, that resorts were for the exclusive use of club members and that 
management and maintenance fees would only increase in line with inflation.   
Hitachi Capital sought comments from DRL, which rejected the claims made. In summary, it 
said:
The sales process was lengthy, but that was necessary to ensure full explanations were 
given and to comply with The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010.  
It denied the sales tactics were pressured or unfair. Ms D was not obliged to attend the 
presentation.
Customers have a 14-day cooling-off period in which to withdraw from any agreement, 
should they wish to do so.
Ms D had been a timeshare owner since 1997, so would have been familiar with the 
way the club operated.
The purchase of additional Points Rights moved Ms D from standard to silver 
membership.
She knew that accommodation was available on a first-come, first-served basis and had 
never raised any concerns about non-availability. 
Ms D was made aware of the maintenance fees and how they would be calculated. 
She also knew that a commission might be paid and could have asked how much it 
would be.  
Hitachi Capital said that it was satisfied it had properly assessed whether the loan was 
affordable, and it invited Ms D to provide further information if she was having difficulty 
making payments. 
When the case was referred to this service, one of our investigators considered what had 
happened but did not recommend that it be upheld. Ms D did not accept the investigators 
assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
The October 2017 purchase agreement was made between Ms D and her relative as buyer 
and DRL as seller. It was an agreement for the sale and purchase of 12,000 Points Rights. 
DRL is also named as the supplier in Hitachi Capitals documentation. 
I am satisfied therefore that the loan was arranged by DRL under existing arrangements with 
Hitachi Capital. Indeed, that does not appear to be in dispute. I must therefore consider what 
Ms D has said about the actions of DRL.
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. A breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract does not do what it has agreed to 
under the contract. There can be a breach if it is clear that one party will not do what it has 
agreed to do. 
In order to establish whether a party has a valid claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, it is necessary therefore to consider the contract terms. 
Contractual documents         
I note that Ms D says that the Points Rights were poor value for money, because she could 
have secured the same accommodation more cheaply. I make no comment on that, save to 
say that poor value is not, of itself, a ground for a claim.
The sale and purchase contract was a standard one produced by DRL. It included a 3-page 
purchase agreement, a Key Information document, and a Customer Compliance Statement. 
By clause 4 of the Terms and Conditions Ms D acknowledged receipt of the Key Information 
Document, Inventory Schedule, Withdrawal Form, Annual Global Reservations Directory, 
Resort Disclosure Booklet, the Governing Documents Booklet and the Rules and 
Regulations of the Club. 
Clause 6 was an entire agreement clause, telling buyers that if they were relying on verbal 
promises, they should be put it in writing.
Clause 7 said that, if any part of the contract was invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the rest of 
the contract would remain valid and enforceable. 
Part 1, section 4 of the Key Information document said that the club would be dissolved on 
31 December 2054. Part 3, section 4 provided information about termination of the contract. 
It explained that membership could be transferred in some circumstances. In exceptional 
circumstances it might be possible to relinquish membership. 
Part 1, section 8 outlined the Management Charge and explained how it would be 
calculated. It said expressly that the charge was not linked to inflation.   
The Customer Compliance Statement comprised 22 statements about the sale and loan. 
The statements included: 
a statement that, having looked at the Points tables, the member was aware of the 
possibilities available with the number of Points allocated to them (1);
a statement that the points system offered flexibility, subject to availability (my 
emphasis) (4);
confirmation that they were unable to meet the financial commitments under any finance 
agreement (17);
a statement that the member understood that DRL worked with credit providers and that 
it was entitled to receive a commission in respect of credit brokered (18);
confirmation that they had been treated courteously, had been given time to consider 
whether the product was right for [them], and had not been put under pressure (20);
confirmation they had read the purchase agreement, key information and any finance 
document and were happy to proceed (21);confirmation that they understood that the documents constituted the entire agreement 
and that no oral or written representations had been made on which they had relied 
(22).
A signature on these statements does not of course mean that they were true. But if they 
were not true, I would have expected Ms D, in bringing this complaint and addressing Hitachi 
Capitals response to it, to explain why she signed the documents and why, having done so, 
she did not exercise [her] right of withdrawal if [she] was unhappy. 
I note that some of the contractual provisions  for example, that Management Charges 
were not linked to inflation  were completely at odds with what Ms D says she was told. 
And, as an existing member, she would have known how they were calculated. 
It is relevant too that the purchase contracts were clear that Ms D would not be able to rely 
on any oral representations and that she confirmed she had been given plenty of time to 
consider the purchases. If Ms D felt she had been rushed into the agreement, she had 14 
days in which to review it and withdraw if she wasnt happy.  
In the circumstances, I think it unlikely that a misrepresentation claim against DRL would 
succeed in this case. 
It follows that Hitachi Capitals decision not to uphold Ms Ds claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act was reasonable.  
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In deciding whether to make orders under these provisions, a court can consider any linked 
agreement  which in this case would include the contract with DRL. For the reasons I have 
explained, I think it unlikely that a court would make an order under section 140B on the 
basis of misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
Ms D says that the commission paid to DRL for introducing the loan had not been disclosed. 
DRL told Ms D that a commission might be paid, but it was under no duty to say how much it 
would be unless asked. This was not a case where DRL was acting on behalf of Ms D in 
introducing or recommending a financial product from a range of products. It was selling 
Points Rights on its own account and providing Ms D with a payment option.  
In any event, I have no reason to think that, if Ms D had asked about the level of 
commission, she would not have been told what it was. 
For these reasons, I think it unlikely that a court would make orders under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act. It follows again that Hitachi Capitals response to this part of the 
complaint was reasonable. 
Affordability
Ms D says that a proper assessment was not made to ensure she could afford the loan. I 
note that the documents provided by Hitachi Capital include information about her income 
and expenditure, so there was some assessment made. Ms D has not suggested however that she has had any difficulty in making repayments, 
even though Hitachi Capital invited her to provide details if that were the case. The 
Customer Compliance Statement indicates that DRL did discuss the loan with her, although 
it was for Hitachi Capital to assess whether it was suitable and affordable. 
The fact that Ms D was able to meet the loan repayments does not, of itself, mean that the 
loan was in fact affordable, still less that Hitachi Capital properly assessed it. It is however 
an indication that it was, and that a more detailed assessment is unlikely to have made any 
real difference overall.
Conclusion 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Ms D has a claim against DRL or, therefore, 
whether she has a claim under section 75. Nor do I have any power to make orders under 
section 140A and section 140B; only a court can do that. They are however matters which I 
must take into account in deciding what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I have done that and concluded that Hitachi Capitals response to Ms Ds 
claims was reasonable. 
F indicated that it would be providing further evidence and arguments in response to my 
provisional decision, and it asked for more time in which to do so. I have not however 
received any further information from either party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have received nothing further to consider in response to my provisional decision, I see 
no reason to change my view of Ms Ds complaint. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ds complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman