DRN-4455522
The complaint
Mr W, who is a director of V, complains on Vs behalf that Marsh Ltd provided incorrect 
information to the insurer of its Commercial Combined insurance policy which resulted in the 
insurer declining Vs claim for a burglary. 
What happened
V bought an insurance policy through Marsh who is a broker. The policy was to provide 
cover for Vs shops for certain events. Unfortunately, one of Vs shops was burgled so V 
claimed on the policy with the insurer. The insurer reviewed the claim and said it had been 
told Vs shop had an alarm and sold the policy on that basis. It said that it had discovered the 
shop didnt have an alarm, it meant there was no cover under the policy. 
V didnt think this was fair and complained to Marsh, it said the shop had never had an alarm 
and said that Marsh had incorrectly told the insurer it was alarmed. Marsh reviewed the 
complaint but didnt issue a final response within eight weeks, so V referred its complaint 
here.   
After the complaint was referred here Marsh explained that it would like to make an offer to 
settle the complaint. It said it would consider the claim in place of the insurer, subject to the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. Marsh said it would appoint a loss adjuster to assess 
the claim and that it would pay interest of 8% per year on the settlement, from two months 
after the burglary, 9 January 2023, (as this was a reasonable time to assess the claim) up to 
the point of settlement. Marsh also agreed to pay V £200 compensation. 
V didnt agree with the offer. It said Marsh should use the same loss adjuster as the insurer 
had used and not interfere with the loss adjusters findings. V also said Marsh should accept 
the liability for the claim now rather than considering the claim. V agreed to the 
compensation offered. 
Marsh agreed to use the same loss adjuster as the insurer and said it had no intention of 
influencing the loss adjusters outcome. It said it would conduct matters in accordance with 
standard market procedures and by doing this would but V back in the position it would have 
been in but for the incorrect information being given to the insurer. V still didnt agree with 
Marshs offer. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and found Marshs offer to be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. She said its normal for a loss adjuster to be used to assess the liability of 
the claim and found that Marshs offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. V didnt 
agree. It said the claim had already been assessed and that the only reason it hadnt been 
paid was because of the alarm condition. V therefore thought Marsh should cover its losses 
without reconsidering the claim. 
As V didnt agree the complaint has comer to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it here. It 
also isnt in dispute that incorrect information was given to the insurer when the policy was 
sold and that this resulted in the insurer declining the claim. In this decision Im therefore 
only considering whether Marshs offer to resolve the complaint is fair and reasonable. 
When a business makes an error, our approach is to put the complainant into the position 
they would have been in but for the error. Marsh has offered to consider this claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. To do this its agreed to use the same 
loss adjuster as the insurer to decide the liability of the claim in line with the policy terms. 
I understand V doesnt think this is fair and has said the only reason the claim was declined 
was because the shop didnt have an alarm. While there hasnt been anything provided to 
dispute this, Im still satisfied its fair and reasonable for Marsh to use a loss adjuster. I say 
this because its common practice for insurers to use loss adjusters to determine its liability 
under a policy. And while Vs claim was declined due to the property not having an alarm, its 
not my role to determine the insurers liability under the policy. So, by Marsh offering to use a 
loss adjuster to do this, Im satisfied that puts V back in the position it would have been in but 
for the error with the information provided to the insurer. It follows that Im therefore satisfied 
its a fair and reasonable outcome to Vs complaint. 
Marsh has also offered to pay 8% interest on any settlement, calculated from two months 
after the loss until the date payment is made. Two months is not an unreasonable time for an 
insurer to determine the outcome of a claim like this and so Im satisfied this is fair and 
reasonable. I can also see V has agree to the interest calculation and compensation of £200. 
Im therefore satisfied these are fair and reasonable and wont be directing Marsh to do 
anything more than its offered.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Marsh Ltd to:
Consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and 
appoint the same loss adjuster as the insurer used to review the claim
Pay 8% simple interest per year on the settlement amount, calculated from 9 January 
2023 until date of payment
Pay V £200 for inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman