DRN-3159985
The complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) damaged his car after a claim made on his 
roadside assistance insurance policy. He wants it to reimburse the repair costs. 
What happened
Mr Bs car broke down and UKI instructed a recovery company to take it to a repairer. The 
recovery company took photographs which showed no damage to the front bumper. But 
when Mr B collected his car, he said the front bumper had been cracked. He said the 
repairer told him the car had arrived with the damage. UKI investigated the issue and said 
there was no evidence that its agents had caused the damage. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI had 
asked its recovery agent and its technician to review photos of the bumper. And they had 
said the damage was caused by impact, not by the recovery. He thought there wasnt any 
evidence that the damage had been caused at the repairers. So he didnt think UKI needed 
to do anything further.
Mr B replied that UKI didnt contact the repairer until a month after the car had been taken in, 
and so any evidence had been lost. He said the car could have been damaged when moved 
around or parked. He disagreed with the repairer who said he hadnt contacted it until a 
month after the repair. He said no one had spoken to the technician who repaired his car 
and who told him it had arrived damaged. Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review, so his 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B feels frustrated that he cant get an account for the damage to his 
cars bumper. Ive looked at the sequence of events and Ive considered whether UKI has 
treated Mr B fairly and reasonably.  
The car was collected by the recovery truck and photos taken then showed no damage to 
the bumper. The car was then taken to Mr Bs garage of choice. Mr B was unable to 
accompany the car due to pandemic restrictions. No further photos were taken of the car 
when it arrived at the garage. Mr Bs wife, Mrs B, collected the car the next day after the 
repairs were made. Mr B said he then noticed the damage to the bumper.
Mr B said he then called the garage and hes now agreed he spoke with the owner, not the 
technician who repaired his car. Mr B said the owner told him the car was damaged on 
arrival. Mr B then contacted UKI who asked him to get quotes for the repair. 
UKI contacted the recovery company who contacted the garage for its comments. The 
recovery company said the damage wouldnt have been caused by the recovery. And the 
garage said there was no damage when the car was collected by Mrs B. 
When it received this information, UKI contacted the garage and spoke to the same person 
who said she didnt recall any damage to the front when the car left the garage. It hasnt 
been established whether or not this person actually inspected the car. 
The garage owner, who oversees cars arriving and departing, said his garage hadnt 
damaged the car. But he didnt confirm to our investigator whether or not there was damage 
to the car. He also said that Mr B hadnt called him until a month after the repair, when any 
CCTV evidence would be no longer available. 
So the bumper was undamaged on collection by the recovery agent. UKI had two 
technicians assessments that the damage to the bumper was caused by an impact and 
unlikely to have been caused when the car was transported. Mr B thought the car might 
have been damaged when moved around and parked. But theres no evidence that the 
damage occurred at the garage. So I cant establish when the damage occurred. 
But I can see from Mr Bs policy that its clear that whilst UKI is responsible for the recovery, 
its not responsible for what happens at Mr Bs choice of garage. Page 11 of his rescue 
policy states:
Once weve taken your vehicle to a garage, its up to you to sort out any repairs.
And on page 24,
If you use a repair garage for anything, theyll be your agent, acting on your behalf. Were 
not responsible for anything they do, or any problems they cause.
So, I think UKI reasonably investigated whether the recovery agent had damaged the car 
and I cant see that theres evidence to show this. I dont think UKI is responsible, under the 
policys terms and conditions, for what occurred at Mr Bs choice of garage. And so I cant 
say that UKI is responsible for the damage to Mr Bs bumper. And I dont require it to pay for 
its repair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman