DRN-4380436
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) refuses to refund her 
losses after she fell victim to a scam.
Mrs T has a representative helping her with the complaint. 
What happened
Mrs T decided to invest in cryptocurrency after seeing a public personality recommend it. 
She did some research online looking for companies to invest with and selected a company 
(which Ill call S). Mrs T submitted her details on Ss website and then someone from the 
company called her. 
In mid-July 2022, Mrs T opened an account with S, as well as a cryptocurrency exchange 
(which Ill call B) and also an account with another FCA regulated business which Ill call W. 
Mrs T made most of her payments from her Nationwide account into her account with W, 
then onto B. My understanding is that the money then went on from there to S to trade on 
her behalf. 
Mrs T initially invested £250 (not paid from her Nationwide account), and once this showed a 
good return  the scammer persuaded Mrs T to invest another £1,000. On 16 September 
2022, Mrs T made her first payment from her Nationwide account and transferred the £1,000 
to W. 
On 27 September 2022, Mrs T received credits into her account for two loans taken out in 
her name. She transferred two lots of £10,000 out of her account. On the same day she then 
attempted to transfer a further £9,950 out of her account.
Nationwide blocked the third transaction of £9,950 and called Mrs T to discuss why so 
much money was coming in and then leaving her account. Mrs T was dishonest during the 
call, telling the advisor that she was using the money for an extension. But Nationwides 
advisor said he wasnt satisfied with her answers and refused to process the payment until 
she sent in evidence of the claims shed made. 
On 28 September 2022  Nationwides advisor further questioned Mrs T and said he 
required the evidence requested on the earlier call. At this point Mrs T explained that shed 
been told to lie by S, and that she was actually investing in cryptocurrency. Mrs T still 
believed it was a genuine investment and wanted to proceed with the transaction. However, 
the advisor informed Mrs T, a legitimate trading company would not tell her to lie to her bank 
and this was a common theme of this sort of scam. At this point Mrs T accepted shed been 
the victim of the scam. 
Nationwide reported the matter to W on the same day  and asked to be informed if any 
funds remained. Although, as the account with W was in Mrs Ts own name, shed have 
access to this if any funds did remain. Nationwide also informed Mrs T that she could raise 
complaints against her loan providers after she informed Nationwide that she didnt 
understand the loans would be in her name. 
Mrs T subsequently raised a complaint with Nationwide explaining that she didnt understand 
why the first two transactions of £10,000 on 27 September 2022 didnt trigger an 
intervention. Mrs T felt that had Nationwide called her sooner, it would have discovered the 
scam before those payments left her account. She felt it had failed in its duty to protect her. 
Nationwide explained that the transactions leaving Mrs Ts account happened following large 
credits from a loan provider. This does happen when consumers take loans to fund different 
purposes such as extensions. So, it didnt feel the transactions were suspicious. But when a 
second loan came in, and a request was made for a third payment to leave the account, an 
intervention was triggered. Nationwide then discovered the scam and saved Mrs T from 
losing the final payment. Nationwide didnt feel it had made any errors so didnt uphold her 
complaint. 
Unhappy with its response, she referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened and felt the first £10,000 was unusual spending for Mrs T based 
on her account conduct. They felt that Nationwide ought to have intervened in the first 
payment, and had it done so, it would have discovered the scam. Overall, they felt 
Nationwide should therefore refund the two £10,000 payments that left the account. 
They did however also feel Mrs T should bear some responsibility for her loss as she 
appears to have done little research before sending significant sums to the scammers who 
she did not know beyond finding them online. There was also a warning on the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) website from August 2022, that the company Mrs T thought she 
was dealing with was no longer regulated. However, our investigator felt the payment of 
£10,000 was so unusual, that Nationwide should bear more responsibility. Overall, they felt a 
deduction of 40% should be made from the redress. 
Mrs T accepted our investigators findings. But Nationwide did not agree. It asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the matter explaining that the loss did not occur from the Nationwide 
account, but from W which was another FCA regulated business. It felt W ought to bear 
some responsibility for the loss. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 27 July 2023, I set out why I was minded to partially uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Nationwide initially commented that Mrs T should be liable 
for 50% of the loss which both I and Mrs T accepted. But Nationwide has again reiterated 
some of its earlier points which I will address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Firstly, I think it may be helpful to set out that financial businesses (like banks and building 
societies) have an obligation to process the payments its customer authorises it to make 
both under the regulations applicable and the terms and conditions of accounts. However, 
businesses also have a duty to try to prevent their customers falling victim to a scam. 
Businesses need to strike a balance between intervening in payments to prevent scams or financial harm, and the risk of unnecessarily inconveniencing or delaying legitimate 
transactions. 
What this means is that Nationwide is generally expected to process any payments Mrs T 
authorises, but it also has to monitor transactions. If any transactions are flagged as 
suspicious, or sufficiently unusual  Nationwide should take measures to prevent its 
customers, such as Mrs T, falling victim to a scam. 
It may also be helpful to explain, that Nationwide didnt scam Mrs T and was not the 
perpetrator of their losses. And, as explained above, businesses usually are under an 
obligation to process payments authorised by consumers. The starting point is that, if 
consumers authorised the payments, then theyre responsible. 
In order for me to uphold a complaint of this nature, and hold Nationwide liable for the losses 
instead of Mrs T, Id need to be satisfied that Nationwide failed in its duty to protect Mrs T in 
some way, and that if it had instead done what it should have done, this either would have 
stopped the losses from occurring in the first place or helped to mitigate the losses once 
notified of the potential scam (by retrieving the money for example). 
The first payment that left Mrs Ts Nationwide account was relatively small and otherwise 
unremarkable. I appreciate this amount might be a lot of money for many consumers, but 
when compared to the thousands of transactions a business like Nationwide processes  its 
not a significant figure that I would expect to trigger alarm bells. 
However, having looked at the statements Nationwide submitted, the first payment of 
£10,000 sent on 27 September 2022 was significantly more than any other payments leaving 
Mrs Ts account and was unusual. Given how unusual this was, like our investigator, I think it 
ought to have triggered an intervention. I accept that sometimes customers take loans for 
purposes such as car purchases or home extensions  which may explain why a large credit 
is made and then a large debit leaves the account following the credit. While this may be an 
indicator that lessens the risk, and a factor Nationwide may take into account, I dont think 
this is enough to absolve Nationwide of its duty to prevent loss altogether. I still think given 
the large sum leaving Mrs Ts account, and that it was being forwarded to W (rather than a 
payment for a large purchase), and W being a relatively new payee, it ought to have 
triggered an intervention. 
As Nationwide did discover the scam during the third payment, I have no reason to doubt 
that it would have discovered the scam on an earlier intervention. I would add that the 
intervention call that Nationwide carried out was exceptional and the advisor asked 
appropriately probing questions when being faced with quite determined but dishonest 
answers on the part of Mrs T. 
I have also thought about Nationwides concerns over the payments being sent on to W 
before being sent on to B and then the scammer. I have considered the argument that the 
loss didnt occur from the Nationwide account, and the complaint should instead be brought 
against W and that there has been a break in the chain of causation. However, I am not 
persuaded by that argument. Transferring money from one account to another before being 
moved on to the scammer, is a typical theme of this type of scam. And we would expect 
each FCA regulated business to take its duty to protect its customers seriously  whatever 
point in the payment journey they may be in. The money being sent to another FCA 
regulated business doesnt change that Nationwide was able to prevent the loss during the 
third payment, and therefore it could most likely have prevented it during the earlier 
payments. Whilst I acknowledge there are number of parties involved here, (including the scammers 
ultimately responsible for the scam), I can only consider the case open before me here, 
which is the one against Nationwide. If Nationwide remains unhappy about this, it may wish 
to consider taking the matter up directly with W or any other parties that were involved. As 
explained, in this case, Im upholding this complaint because I am satisfied that Nationwide 
should have intervened in the earlier payment and Im confident, that had it done so, it would 
have discovered the scam and prevented the losses. 
I would add that I understand Mrs T has alleged that the payments being made out of her 
account were actually made by the scammers having taken remote access of her devices. 
However, I can see the payments were made from the same IP address, and Im also 
satisfied Mrs T knew about and authorised the payments to debit her account. During the 
intervention call, Mrs T was very determined to have the payment processed by Nationwide 
and it doesnt indicate she was overall unaware of what was happening on her account. 
Finally, Ive also thought about whether Mrs T should bear some loss in this case. I agree 
with our investigator, Mrs T agreed to send large sums of money to an unregulated business 
that she had no prior dealings with and appears to have done little to no research on them. 
She also gave remote access to her devices and access to her accounts to people she did 
not know. I dont think shes taken the steps we would expect a reasonable consumer to take 
to safeguard her account and money  so I think she should bear some responsibility for 
contributory negligence. I do accept that Mrs T was clearly taken in by the scammers and 
trusted them  and shes been a genuine victim of a scam. And Nationwide being the 
experts here, ought to have intervened sooner and Im persuaded that it could have 
prevented the loss. So, I think they should bear more responsibility. Overall, Im inclined to 
agree with our investigator that a deduction of 40% from the redress appears fair and 
reasonable in this case.
As the money Im asking Nationwide to refund came from loans, I dont think any interest 
needs to be awarded for loss of use. 
I have thought about compensation for the distress that Mrs T has suffered. I understand the 
experience has caused Mrs T significant distress and inconvenience. While I am very sorry 
for the difficulties she has experienced, ultimately it was the scammer who was responsible 
for her suffering. And whilst I have concluded Nationwide most likely could have prevented 
the payments, Ive also explained why I think a 40% reduction to the compensation due to 
contributory negligence is appropriate. Bearing all of this in mind, overall, Im satisfied the 
award I have set out here represents a fair outcome to this case, so I dont intend to make 
an additional award for distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right 
Nationwide should refund to Mrs T, 60% of the two £10,000 payments that debited her 
account on 27 September 2022. 
Nationwide responded to my provisional decision making the following points. 
Nationwide felt Mrs T had been negligent and should bear 50% liability for the loss 
which is more in line with how this service usually considers these types of 
complaints. It set out a number of reasons why the reduction should be 50% (which I 
set out below). 
Nationwide also queried whether Mrs T was actually repaying the loan to one 
provider  because if she hadnt, then this isnt a loss that she should be reimbursed 
for. I agreed that Mrs T had been negligent for the reasons Nationwide set out as well as those 
highlighted by Nationwide. We explained that: 
Mrs T didnt carry out any checks for scam warnings. 
Mrs T doesnt appear to have done any research relying solely on what she was 
being told by the scammers.
She confirmed to Nationwide she never checked the scammers platform herself 
despite having access to it. She took everything she was told at face value. 
She repeatedly tried to mislead Nationwide during its intervention calls. 
She gave the scammers remote access to her devices.
The investment growth Mrs T was told about was too good to be true and this ought 
to have raised at least some questions on the part of Mrs T. 
We also reiterated that Mrs T sent large sums of money to an unregulated business 
that she had no prior dealings with. 
So overall, I dont think shes taken the steps we would expect a reasonable consumer to 
take to safeguard her account and money. So, I agreed that the redress could be reduced by 
50%.
We also explained to Nationwide that the loans remained payable, and Mrs T wasnt, at this 
stage, pursuing any complaints against the loan providers. 
At this stage both Nationwide and Mrs T replied accepting my view regarding the redress 
being reduced by 50% for contributory negligence. 
Following this, Nationwide replied that it still did not agree with my provisional decision. 
Nationwide reiterated its earlier points that it felt, Mrs T transferring the money to another UK 
regulated bank W before sending the funds on to the scammer, broke the chain of 
causation. Nationwide felt the losses occurred from the account with W, rather than from Mrs 
Ts Nationwide account. It also felt I should assess the actions taken by W to form a 
complete and informed view of the case, even if I wasnt able to order any redress against 
W. It felt, as the money was sent to the scammer from W, W should be held liable for the 
losses for not intervening and preventing the loss rather than Nationwide. 
As Ive said before, I realise there were multiple parties involved here, and Im fully aware of 
the facts relevant to this case.  Ive considered carefully, the information available to me. But 
Id like to re-iterate that Mrs T isnt currently pursuing a complaint against W  and shes 
aware she is able to. I cannot assess what W did when no complaint has been brought 
against it, and W has not submitted any information it holds regarding this case. As Ive 
explained, Mrs T has chosen to raise a complaint against her main bank, who she had a 
long-standing relationship with, and I can only assess the complaint thats brought before 
me. I reiterate that if Nationwide remains unhappy about this, it may wish to consider taking 
the matter up directly with W or any other parties that were involved.
For the reasons Ive already explained, I feel Nationwide ought to have intervened when 
Mrs T sent her first payment of £10,000. And as it was able to prevent the loss when it did 
intervene, Ive got no reason to doubt that it would have prevented the loss earlier, when it 
ought to have intervened. 
It has to be borne in mind, that its a known theme of this type of scam, that multiple parties 
are often involved before the money is eventually sent to a scammer - whether it be another 
bank, or an account held in the consumers own name with a cryptocurrency exchange. The 
loss that consumers suffer, has not been impacted in any way because the money may have gone through one or sometimes several other businesses. In this case, Nationwides advisor 
carrying out the intervention call, recognised there was a significant likelihood that Mrs T was 
at risk of being scammed despite Mrs T trying to mislead it. And Mrs T fell victim to the exact 
scam that the UK regulator has warned about. Some of the most well-known and common 
characteristics of the scam are present here. 
So, for the reasons Ive already explained, I feel Nationwide failed in its duty of care towards 
Mrs T. Im satisfied this failing was an effective cause of the losses as Nationwide could 
have (and did eventually) prevent the loss. And the loss was a reasonably foreseeable loss 
that changed in no way due to the money going to W before being sent on to the scammer. 
So, Im not satisfied that there has been a break in the chain of causation, and I therefore 
think its fair Nationwide should be held liable for the losses Mrs T suffered. 
So, for the reasons I have already explained, I uphold this complaint. Nationwide should be 
held liable for the losses Mrs T suffered from the first £10,000 payment sent on 27 
September 2022. But for the reasons I have already explained, the redress can be reduced 
by 50% for contributory negligence. 
Putting things right
Nationwide should refund 50% of the two £10,000 payments that debited Mrs Ts account on 
27 September 2022. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman