DRN-3116175
The complaint
Mr P feels that HSBC Bank UK Plc unfairly applied charges and interest to his account when 
he was experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr P complained to HSBC about unarranged overdraft charges and interest applied to his 
account since 1993. He says the charges caused a snowball effect which significantly 
affected his financial circumstances.
HSBC looked at Mr Ps complaint, it felt the charges applied to his account were fair and 
noted that it had refunded charges on several occasions. HSBC also said that it felt any 
complaint about charges from before November 2013 had been referred too late.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps concerns, she agreed that Mr Ps complaint about
charges from before November 2013 had bene brought to us too late. She also explained 
that she didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly in applying the charges to Mr Ps account from 
2013 onwards. Mr P disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint
made more than six years after whats being complained about happened, or if later, more
than three years after the complainant knew, or should reasonably have known, that they
had reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R which can be found
online.
Mr P has complained about charges applied to his account between from 1993 onwards. 
This means that Mr P had, at least, six years from the date the charges were added in order 
to complain. So, for example, any charges applied between 1993 and October 2013 would 
have had to be complained about by between 1999 and October 2019 Mr P didnt complain 
until November 2019, so he complained more than six years after the events he is 
complaining about.
But DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) can potentially provide a consumer with longer than six years to
complain, as long as they complained within three years of when they were aware, or they
ought reasonably to have been aware, they had cause to. So Ive considered whether DISP
2.8.2R (2)(b) provides Mr P with longer to complain here.
I think that in order for me to find that Mr P knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that
he had cause to complain, I need to be satisfied that he was aware the charges were
being applied, knew that those charges were contributing to his financial difficulties, and
knew that it was HSBC who was responsible for applying the charges.
Mr Ps statements would have set out the charges hes unhappy with. So I think that
he would have aware of the charges that HSBC was applying to his account at the time. And 
hed have been aware of his financial circumstances during that period of time too, so hed 
have known whether he was able to afford to pay the charges. As this is the case, I
think that Mr P also ought to have known whether the charges were too much or causing
him difficulty. And I think hed have known that HSBC was responsible for applying those
charges too. So I think Mr P would have known he had cause to complain as soon as the
charges were applied, which means the three-year rule doesnt provide Mr P with longer to
complain overall. And with this in mind, I think that his complaint about charges from before 
November 2013 was made too late.
I can look at a complaint made outside of the time limit if Im persuaded that this was
because of exceptional circumstances. But Mr P hasnt detailed any exceptional 
circumstances that stopped him complaining earlier, so I dont think exceptional 
circumstances were responsible for the delay.
I can though, look at charges applied to Mr Ps account from November 2013 onwards.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Mr Ps complaint. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint about 
the charges applied from 2013 onwards. Ill explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged Mr P over the years were fair and reasonable. Ultimately 
how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for 
me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at HSBC charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Mr P if it didnt offer appropriate assistance to Mr P in 
circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that 
he was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances 
where HSBC didnt treat Mr P fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that HSBC did treat Mr P unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at his 
account statements, I can see that there were signs on his account that he was struggling 
with managing his finances. He was making payments to debt management companies, and 
he was regularly going into an unarranged overdraft and incurring charges. However, I can 
also see that any overdrawn balances were generally repaid within a couple of days at most, 
and that Mr P was receiving regular credits to his account throughout this period. I can also 
see that on several occasions HSBC did refund overdraft charges to try to assist Mr P and 
that HSBC offered advice and signposted Mr P to organisations who could help whenever it 
wrote to him to let him know it had refused payments on his account.
In the circumstances I think that the steps HSBC took to help Mr P were appropriate. When 
someone is struggling with recurring unarranged overdraft charges we would expect a bank 
to offer forbearance. But by waiving some charges, along with offering access to money 
management advice, HSBC was taking action which could help break the cycle of charges 
for Mr P. And I dont think I can fairly say that HSBC shouldnt have applied any charges to 
Mr Ps account from 2013 onwards, particularly as often charges were incurred because 
Mr P had used his debit card when there were not enough funds in his account to cover the 
transactions. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr P, but Im satisfied that HSBC hasnt 
treated him unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman