DRN-3217069
The complaint
Mr A says Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
In July 2018 Everyday Loans gave Mr A a loan of £3,210 to be repaid over 36 months. The 
monthly repayment was £224.80 and the total cost of the loan was £8,092.80 (if it ran to full 
term).
The main purpose of the loan was for Mr A to consolidate existing debt. Mr A repaid a credit 
card which had a balance outstanding of £702. He also paid £1,000 onto a credit card and a 
catalogue shopping account, reducing the amounts owed on these accounts. This left a 
balance of £508 paid directly to Mr A. 
Mr A, together with his representatives, complain that the loan was unaffordable for Mr A 
and as such shouldnt have been lent. They say at the time of the loan Mr A had substantial 
debt outstanding and Everyday Loans should have realised he was struggling and 
overcommitted financially.
In response to the complaint Everyday Loans disagreed it lent irresponsibly. It says that Mr A 
provided copies of bank statements showing his income was £1,800 per month. In addition, 
it reviewed a payslip, carried out a job check and conducted a credit search. Everyday Loans 
says it also used ONS data to estimate his living expenses and added a buffer for limited 
changes in circumstances. Based on its calculations, Everyday Loans concluded Mr A had 
£453.72 disposable income, after his monthly loan repayment was considered. So it 
disagrees the loan was unaffordable for Mr A. 
Unhappy with Everyday Loans response, Mr A referred his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it. He disagreed Mr A would have 
enough disposable income after considering his regular expenditure, including his monthly 
credit commitments. He also felt that it wasnt reasonable for Everyday Loans to rely on ONS 
data when it had a copy of Mr As recent bank statements showing his monthly expenditure 
was higher than this. So he didnt agree Mr A could have afforded to repay this loan. 
Everyday Loans disagreed with the outcome reached by the investigator and asked for an 
ombudsman to consider the complaint. So the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it lent responsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure etc.
Ive considered the information that Everyday Loans gathered as a result of the checks it 
completed (detailed above), and I think that it had sufficient information to demonstrate that 
Mr A couldnt afford to repay this loan. Everyday Loans relied on ONS calculations for Mr As 
regular expenditure, however it had a copy of a bank statement from Mr A. Like the 
investigator, I also dont think it was reasonable to rely on estimates when Everyday Loans 
had details of Mr As actual expenditure. Having looked at Mr As bank statements, I think its 
clear that Mr A was struggling to manage his money and wouldnt be able to sustainably 
repay this loan. 
Mr As bank statement shows he was consistently overdrawn only briefly going into a 
positive balance after he had been paid. He was therefore paying daily overdraft fees 
throughout the majority of the month. In addition, the repayments on his existing credit 
accounts were more than half of his net monthly income before even considering his other 
regular expenditure. I accept that a small amount of his regular credit commitments were 
consolidated into this loan, however I still dont think Mr A had sufficient means to repay this 
loan.
The results of the credit searches also show Mr A had a number of high balances on these 
accounts. In total Mr A had outstanding debt of over £12,000 on credit card, loan and 
catalogue shopping accounts. In addition to this, Mr A had a hire purchase loan where he 
was committed to monthly repayments of £461. I think this, together with what Everyday 
Loans could see from Mr As bank statements, should have suggested to Everyday Loans 
that Mr A was having trouble managing his finances. 
Ive considered that Mr A was consolidating some of his existing debt and by taking out this 
loan he repaid an existing loan of £702. He also paid £1,000 towards a credit card balance 
and another £1,000 to a catalogue shopping account balance, however this still left him with 
substantial balances outstanding on these accounts. On the credit card account his balance 
was up to the limit of £3,000 and so was reduced to £2,000 after the loan. The catalogue 
shopping account had a balance of £3,974 (which had exceeded the agreed limit of £3,500) 
and the balance therefore became £2,974. So whilst I accept that the loan in question 
enabled Mr A to move back into his agreed limit on his catalogue shopping account, I cant 
see that overall it had much benefit to his financial position. Particularly when £500 was 
advanced directly to Mr A (rather than being applied to existing debt in the same way as the 
rest of the loan) and the total cost of the loan which Mr A needed to repay was over £8,000.
So for the reasons explained above, I think its clear from the information Everyday Loans 
had available that Mr A was already overindebted and couldnt have sustainably afforded to 
repay this loan. So I dont think Everyday Loans should have agreed his loan.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct it  as far as its 
reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the 
mistakes it made hadnt happened. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mr A in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
been given the loan in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mr A 
was given the loan which has since been used and, in these circumstances, I cant undo 
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr A back in the position he would be in 
if he hadnt been given the loan in the first place. But equally I dont think it appropriate for 
Everyday Loans to benefit from an unfair lending decision.Bearing this in mind, Everyday Loans needs to do the following:
1. Refund all the interest, fees and charges Mr A paid towards the loan.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce any outstanding capital balance by the 
amount calculated at step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, any outstanding capital balance remains, ensure that it isnt subject to 
any historic or future interest and/or charges. And arrange an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr A. But if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in question 
should be given back to Mr A and 8% simple interest should be added to the 
surplus.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges on this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. The business must give the consumer a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put things right as detailed 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
