DRN-3334997
The complaint
Mr C complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) limited the hourly labour rate he 
could claim after having his car repaired, even though it didnt send him the policy booklet to 
explain this.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr C bought a car insurance policy during a phone call with West Bay. Mr C 
says that at that time he requested a paper copy of the policy document to be sent to him, 
which he didnt receive. Mr C called West Bay two further times, on 2 April 2021 and 19 April 
2021 to chase the policy document. Mr C has explained that each time he called to chase 
the document he was sent a seven-page A4 printed document, but not the full policy 
document. 
In August 2021 Mr Cs car was damaged in an accident and he took it to his local garage to 
get a repair quote. He then contacted West Bay to log a claim. At this point West Bay told Mr 
C that whilst he could have the repair work completed at his choice of garage, it would only 
pay the equivalent hourly labour rate as what it would pay to one of its approved repairers. 
As this rate was £27.50 per hour and Mr C had been quoted £42 per hour, there was a 
shortfall of just under £200 to complete the job. 
Mr C complained that the fact he didnt receive the policy document, despite repeatedly 
requesting it, is what led to him being unaware of the cap on labour charges on the policy. 
West Bay responded to Mr Cs complaint, explaining that it had sent the policy document by 
post and email, and it also said Mr C had access to an online portal where he could have 
accessed the document. But Mr C was unhappy with West Bays response, so he referred 
his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators thought about what had happened but he didnt recommend that Mr 
Cs complaint should be upheld. He thought that even if Mr C had been aware of the cap on 
labour charges, it wouldnt have affected his decision to buy the car insurance policy, so he 
didnt think West Bay had caused a financial loss. The investigator also noted that Mr C had 
been told about the £27.50 limit before deciding to have his car repaired at his own choice of 
garage, and he thought that Mr C couldve chosen not to do that to mitigate his losses.
As Mr C didnt agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill 
explain why. 
Id like to start by emphasising that the decision Ive reached isnt in any way intended to 
downplay Mr Cs complaint; Ive very carefully read everything hes said and I accept that 
dealing with West Bay has been frustrating for him. But in reaching my decision I have to 
consider two things  firstly what, if anything, West Bay did wrong. And if it did do something 
wrong, how that has caused Mr C to lose out or how that made Mr C take a different course 
of action to what he might otherwise have taken. 
I fully accept that Mr C wanted a paper copy of his insurance policy document. Hes 
explained that hes not entirely comfortable using computers and so he wanted a hard copy 
that he could carefully read. 
I do agree that West Bay could have done a better job at providing a paper copy of the policy 
document to Mr C when he asked  as it looks like he eventually received one more than a 
month after he initially asked for it. But despite this, even if West Bay had given Mr C a 
paper policy document sooner, I dont think this wouldve led to Mr C making a different 
decision and not to buying or keeping the policy. 
I say this because considering Mr Cs situation, I havent seen anything that makes me think 
that Mr C specifically purchased this policy because it was important to him that he could 
have his car repaired at any garage without consideration of the cost of the labour. If there 
were a specific reason that Mr C mightve needed this feature, I may have thought differently 
about this. But simply preferring to visit a main dealer rather than the insurers approved 
repairer doesnt persuade me Mr C wouldnt have taken the insurance if hed known about 
this.
I do appreciate that with hindsight Mr C isnt happy about the labour cost limit placed on the 
repairs to his car, but I havent lost sight of the fact that this is a common feature of motor 
insurance policies. So I dont think it was unfair of West Bay to do this. 
Turning to the contact between Mr C and West Bay, Ive carefully considered the contact 
notes that West Bay has provided. I can see there were a number of calls between it and Mr 
C in relation to this claim. On 2 September 2021 it spears that Mr C was reminded about the 
price difference between what West Bay was prepared to pay, and what his garage had 
quoted. The note Ive seen suggest that Mr C was told hed need to make a decision on 
whether to pay the difference because no work would be done until hed decided that. The 
next contact note, from 4 October 2021, explains that Mr C had agreed to pay the difference. 
With the above in mind, its clear that it was important to Mr C to have his repair done at the 
garage of his choice. But its also important to note that Mr C had been made aware of the 
need to pay the additional labour cost, before hed agreed to having the work done at his 
chosen garage. As Mr C chose to go ahead, despite having had several weeks to consider 
his options, including the opportunity to proceed with West Bays approved repairer, I cant 
hold West Bay responsible for the additional cost of around £200 that Mr C had to pay. 
I understand that Mr C is unlikely to accept what Ive said and Im sorry to disappoint him. 
But for the reasons Ive explained above, Im afraid Im not upholding this complaint. So I 
dont require West Bay to put anything right.My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against West Bay Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman