DRN-3685227
The complaint
Mr P complains that Inspop.com Ltd trading as Confused.com mishandled his purchase of a 
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Confused.com, I refer to the above-named company and I include 
employees and others insofar as I hold that company responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
In January 2022, Mr P bought a policy though Confused.com who offered him £34.00 cash 
back. About a week later, Confused.com emailed him inviting him to claim a reward of a 
£20.00 supermarket voucher, which he did. 
In April 2022, Confused.com later told him the reward had made him ineligible for the 
cashback.
Mr P complained to Confused.com. By a final response dated April 2022, Confused.com 
turned down his complaint. Unhappy with that, Mr P brought his complaint to us in mid-June 
2022. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that  
Confused.com had acted fairly.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that: 
It is unfair, misleading and unreasonable for Inspop.com to email customers with an 
alternative offer (of lower value), knowing that if they accept that offer it will invalidate 
the higher value cash back the customer is entitled to. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From some screenshots at the time of the purchase, Ive seen the following: 
What would stop me earning cashback?

Cashback will not be paid in addition to any other offers, discounts or rewards offered 
by Confused.com
I accept that Mr P wouldve preferred the cashback. And Confused.com sent an email 
inviting him to claim the reward.
However, in claiming the reward, Mr P wouldve had to accept a declaration as follows:
 I understand that I cant claim a reward in conjunction with any other offer, including 
cashback sites
So Im satisfied that Confused.com had made the position clear enough. And I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to direct Confused.com to pay Mr P cashback or to do any more in 
response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Inspop.com Ltd trading as Confused.com to do any more in response to this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman