DRN-2688519
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Fairstone Financial Management Limited (FFM) advised him to 
transfer out of the defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) he held with his 
employer to a Flexible Retirement Plan (FRP). Mr N complains that he is worse off as a 
result.
What happened
Mr N met with a representative of FFM in 2015 to discuss his retirement needs. The adviser 
noted Mr N wanted to fully review the options available to him from his OPS, and an 
additional defined contribution plan he also held with his employer, in order to meet his 
objectives of repaying his mortgage and retiring in the next few years.
As a result of the discussions, in July 2015 the adviser recommended Mr N transfer out of 
his OPS and place the funds in an FRP, a type of flexible drawdown pension plan. The 
adviser recommended the funds be invested in line with Mr Ns attitude to risk (ATR), which 
they had assessed as high medium. The adviser said this would help Mr N achieve his 
objective of repaying his mortgage by using the tax-free cash (TFC) available to him and he 
could defer taking an income until he wanted to retire. However, the adviser noted Mr Ns 
intention not to repay the mortgage straight away because of the redemption figure being 
higher than the available TFC at the time of the advice.
In August 2015 Mr Ns employer informed FFM the transfer value of the OPS had increased 
to £307,234.82. Mr N accepted the advice to transfer and FFM received an advice fee 
equivalent to 2% of the transfer value. Mr N also agreed to an ongoing service charge of 
0.75% per year. In November 2015 Mr N took TFC of £76,928.03.
Mr N raised a complaint with FFM in 2019. He said hed since found out that a colleague 
who had also received advice to transfer out of the OPS had received a much higher transfer 
value, despite their working situation being very similar to Mr Ns. Mr N said hed had 
concerns at the time about whether transferring out was in his best interest but the adviser 
had assured him it was. Mr N explained he was going through health problems at the time 
and his judgment was impaired. He didnt think the adviser emphasised the importance of 
the guaranteed benefits he would be giving up. Overall he didnt think the adviser shouldve 
recommended he transfer out of his OPS as he was worse off.
FFM didnt agree so the complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator upheld the 
complaint. She didnt think that Mr N should have been classed as having a high medium 
ATR  she thought a more reasonable assessment wouldve been low-medium given Mr Ns 
OPS was his main pension and he had little capacity for loss. Overall, she didnt think there 
was the potential for Mr N to improve on the benefits he wouldve received if he had 
remained in the OPS. This was because the growth required just to match the benefits he 
was giving up (the critical yield) was too high given his low-medium attitude to risk. The 
investigator disregarded what FFM had said about Mr Ns objective of repaying his 
mortgage. She recommended Mr N should be compensated in line with the regulators 
pension review methodology.
FFM didnt accept this and asked for a final decision  as such, the complaint was passed to 
me.
On review of the file I asked Mr N for further information about FFMs record of him wanting 
to access his TFC to repay his mortgage. Mr N said this wasnt his objective and hed only 
taken the TFC because FFM had advised him to do so. Mr N provided evidence showing 
that he had not spent the TFC and had simply moved it around since receiving it to take 
advantage of higher interest rates. He said he hadnt repaid his mortgage until recently and 
he had savings of £28,000 at the time that he couldve used to supplement his income.
The investigator shared this with FFM, explaining that as Mr N didnt intend to use the TFC 
to pay his mortgage straight away, it wasnt suitable advice to transfer out of his OPS at that 
time. She said that FFM also hadnt made it clear to Mr N he could retire and take benefits 
from his OPS at age 60  she thought it ought to have advised Mr N to revisit this when he 
reached this age instead in just over two years. 
FFM maintained that its advice had been based on what Mr N had told the adviser at the 
time, which was that he was struggling to repay his mortgage and that he wished to use the 
TFC to repay it. FFM thought that it was unreasonable to rely on information that wasnt 
provided to the adviser at the time. It also said that it wasnt possible for Mr N to retire at 60 
because of the guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) requirements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
OPSs typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension income to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer. The Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) applied at the time of the advice and COBS19.1.6G states:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
So, the starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. Generally, a transfer will 
only be in the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable prospect that the new 
arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer will also need to be suitable, 
taking into account the individuals particular circumstances.
According to the fact-find completed at the time of FFMs advice Mr N was 57 years old, 
employed and had suffered a serious illness earlier that year. As a result, he was working 
part-time so his earnings would be reducing. Mr N was married with four children, one of 
whom was disabled and required full-time care from his wife. Mr Ns wife didnt work but 
received a carers allowance. They also received Disability Living Allowance. The fact-find 
recorded that Mr N owned his home but had an outstanding mortgage of approximately 
£80,000. It also noted he had savings of £5,000  Mr N disputes this and said he had access 
to joint savings of £28,000. Mr N was also a member of his employers defined contribution 
scheme (DCS) which the fact-find noted had a value of £27,515.87.The fact-find recorded Mr Ns main objectives as follows:
To increase his disposable income and be able to afford to retire at any time due to 
health issues on an income of between £14,000 and £18,000;
To secure the transfer value of the OPS offered by his employer and fully review his 
DCS and OPS to ascertain the possibility of meeting those objectives;
To maximise death benefits for his wife and children.  
Additional information about Mr Ns circumstances and reasons for taking advice were noted 
in the recommendation letter dated 29 July 2015. This stated that Mr N going part-time had 
resulted in him having very little disposable income remaining at the end of the month and 
hed had to use some savings to cover bills. The letter said Mr N was concerned he might 
not be able to carry on working until his normal retirement age of 65 and he wanted to look 
into retiring early to support his wife and children. The letter noted Mr Ns mortgage was his 
main expenditure, and being able to repay this might enable him to give up work.
Based on everything Ive seen, it seems to me Mr Ns OPS was his most valuable asset. It 
provided a guaranteed income at retirement with increases, as well as a spouses pension if 
Mr N passed away pre or post retirement and a refund of contributions should he pass away 
before retirement. Whilst he had a DCS, this was a small fund and wouldnt have provided 
much of an income, and he had no other assets besides the family home. Based on this 
I think FFM should have recognized the significance of Mr Ns OPS and proceeded with 
caution.
Transferring his OPS meant that Mr N would be losing his guarantees and instead relying on 
investment performance from a new scheme. But I dont think his situation lent itself to taking 
such risks, despite his apparent need for extra income at the time of the advice. I think it 
shouldve been clear that while Mr N may have been open to taking some risk, he wasnt 
prepared or able to take a significant amount.
Mr N completed a risk profiler on 1 June 2015. Based on the responses Mr N gave, FFM 
determined he had a high medium ATR or 6/10. But I dont think that was right. Mr N had no 
investments and could not be described as being an experienced investor. Over half of 
Mr Ns responses on the profiler were Neither agree or disagree. So, overall I dont think the 
risk profiler completed by Mr N give any real insight into his ATR. However, Mr N gave the 
following answers here:
Compared to the average person, I would say I take more risks  Disagree
Even if I experienced a substantial loss on an investment, I would not be put off making 
risky investments  Disagree
If my investment portfolio dropped significantly in value during the first three months, it 
would not bother me  Disagree
None of these responses are, in my view, in line with a high medium ATR.
Mr Ns capacity to accept risk (or capacity for loss) was also an important part of FFMs risk 
assessment. But I dont think this was given adequate consideration. In assessing his 
capacity for loss FFM said that overall, Mr N could tolerate small/medium losses, which isnt 
defined so it isnt a particularly useful metric. But aside from his state pension and a modest 
DCS, this was Mr Ns only retirement provision. And it was needed to support his dependent 
wife and disabled child long-term. So, I think the OPS was Mr Ns most significant retirement asset. Mr N believed he was likely to need to retire before age 60  just over two years from 
the date of the advice  so he wouldve had very little time to recoup any investment losses if 
he transferred his OPS to a personal pension. Overall, given what FFM knew about Mr Ns 
circumstances, I dont think FFM couldve reasonably concluded that Mr N was able to 
tolerate small/medium losses. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Mr Ns ATR was high medium. Having 
considered the answers Mr N gave in the risk assessment, his investment experience and 
capacity for loss, I think it was actually low. And I think it ought to have been clear to FFM 
that Mr N could not realistically be classed as a high medium risk investor. Giving advice is 
not a tick box exercise and the fact a risk profiler had marked him out as having a higher 
ATR should not have overridden the evidence the customer had provided to FFM about his 
own attitude to risk and capacity for loss.
An important part of assessing the viability of an OPS transfer, is a careful analysis of the 
investment returns required from any investments in the receiving scheme, to match the 
benefits that are being given up by transferring out of the OPS. This is known as the critical 
yield.
Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator required a business arranging a pension transfer to:
1. compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme or 
stakeholder pension scheme, before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits pension scheme;
2. ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the retail client to be 
able to make an informed decision;
3. give the retail client a copy of the comparison, drawing the retail clients attention to  
the factors that do and do not support the firms advice, no later than when the key 
features document is provided; and 
4. take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison  
and its advice.
COBS 19.1.3 goes on to say that in particular the comparison should:
1. take into account all of the retail clients relevant circumstances;
2. have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3. explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have 
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up; and
4. be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which the retail clients funds will be invested.
COBS 19.1.7 also says:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer or pension opt-out, it should 
consider the client's attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that would
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up."
The recommendation letter showed that a critical yield of 5.5% per year was required to 
match benefits from the OPS if Mr N took the maximum TFC and retired at 65. But I dont 
think this was a useful comparison  something the adviser noted  because Mr N made it 
clear that he expected to retire around age 60 because of his health. So, in reality the critical 
yield couldve been even higher. Like the investigator, I feel the growth required to provide 
an increase in benefits for Mr N was too high to make the transfer viable.The advice was given at a time when there were no industry standard projection rates to 
assess the likelihood of the critical yield being achieved. But at the time the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal pensions illustrations were 2% (lower); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (higher). So Mr N wouldve needed to achieve more than the 
projected intermediate growth rate just to match the benefits he was giving up. In my view, 
that wasnt realistic.
FFM said that it thought the critical yield was achievable, but this was based on Mr N having 
a high medium ATR. However, as Ive said above, I dont think this was right. I think Mr N 
had a low ATR, so I think a more realistic indicator was the lower growth rate of 2%, which 
was far lower than the critical yield to match Mr Ns OPS benefits.
Overall, I think it was clear that Mr N was likely to be worse off in retirement if he transferred 
out of his OPS. However, Ive considered whether Mr Ns circumstances and objectives 
wouldve made FFMs recommendation suitable despite this most likely resulting in a lower 
pension.
FFM asserts that Mr N was in financial difficulty at the time of the advice. It says his earnings 
werent sufficient to meet his outgoings. So, he required access to his OPS benefits and 
wanted to take the TFC to repay his mortgage, which would relieve the financial pressure he 
was under. 
Mr N says that at the time of the advice his judgement was impaired because of his poor 
health, but he expected FFM to act in his best interests. He says if FFM had advised him to 
remain in his OPS he wouldve done so. Mr N feels FFM has exaggerated his circumstances 
to justify recommending he transfer his OPS benefits.
 
It's clear from the evidence provided that at the time of the advice Mr N was concerned 
about his health and his ability to continue working. He was around seven years away from 
his normal retirement age of 65 and it seems he didnt think it was likely hed be able to 
continue working to that age. He was also concerned about his lack of sick pay. It appears 
from the information gathered by FFM at the time that Mr Ns reduced earnings (together 
with the benefits the family received) was not quite enough to meet all of his outgoings, there 
was a shortfall of around £200 per month. The fact find noted Mr N had savings of £5,000, 
but he was already having to dip into this to cover bills. Mr N says that he actually had 
around £28,000 in savings at the time and has provided evidence to prove it. It isnt clear 
why the fact-find only records savings of £5,000. But I cant really rely on information that 
wasnt provided to the adviser at the time, particularly as Mr N had an opportunity to correct 
the advisers understanding of his circumstances after he received the recommendation 
letter.
Irrespective of Mr Ns circumstances at the time, it is also clear to me that on his full-time 
wage, Mr N could meet all of his outgoings comfortably. So, Mr Ns current financial issues 
were due to him working part-time because of his recent health problems. And whilst it is 
clear that Mr N was worried that his health would prevent him from working full-time in the 
future, that was just one of the possibilities  Mr N was still recovering from his illness and 
may have been able to increase his working hours. As such, his financial difficulties may 
have been short-lived. And I think the adviser ought to have borne this in mind before 
considering recommending Mr N transfer his OPS, which would have a lasting impact on his 
future retirement.
FFM says it was suitable advice to recommend the transfer because Mr N needed access to 
the TFC to repay his mortgage. The mortgage was split into two sub-accounts, with fixed 
interest rates ending in 2016 and 2017. But according to the recommendation letter, the TFC available from Mr Ns OPS wasnt enough to clear the mortgage and early repayment 
charges at the time of the advice. And the letter noted that even if Mr N also took the TFC 
available under his DCS, this still wouldnt have been enough to clear the mortgage. So, the 
letter stated:
We have therefore agreed to wait until your redemption figure reduces further, your 
pensions grow in value or when your redemption penalty ends. This is indeed the reason we 
have not executed a full flexi-drawdown strategy immediately after transfer. You have 
therefore chosen to take advantage of what we agreed was a high CETV rather than wait 
and risk a lower re-calculation of the CETV by the scheme actuary - this is a real possibility, 
especially if gilt yields rise. It is one of your objectives to secure this offer.
I note that FFM has provided a copy of an email that its adviser sent, following a phone call 
with Mr N in August 2015. The email said Mr N had called saying he wanted his TFC as 
soon as possible as he now believed he had enough to clear his mortgage. I put this to Mr N, 
who maintained that he only took the TFC because the adviser said it would be a good idea 
and he never intended to repay the mortgage at the time. He also provided evidence 
showing that he hadnt touched the TFC for years, other than moving it around between 
accounts to benefit from higher interest rates. And he didnt repay his mortgage until last 
year.
So, the email is a bit of an anomaly given the evidence Ive seen. For this reason, I havent 
given it much weight. But even if I could accept it on face value that Mr N did want his TFC 
to repay the mortgage at the time, the advisers role wasnt simply to facilitate what Mr N 
wanted. The adviser had a duty to provide suitable advice and determine whether or not 
transferring the OPS benefits was in Mr Ns best interest. This meant he had a duty to 
challenge Mr Ns apparent belief that he needed to repay his mortgage using his TFC, and 
point out the significant disadvantages of doing so. And its clear to me that any advantage 
Mr N would gain by repaying his mortgage would not outweigh the significant disadvantages 
he would face by giving up a secure, guaranteed income in retirement and placing his entire 
pension at risk.
Overall, at the time the advice was given, I think the adviser understood Mr N did not intend 
to repay his mortgage straight away, and possibly not for another one or two years until the 
early repayment charges expired. So, I dont think Mr N needed immediate access to the 
TFC at the time of the advice. I think the fact that the TFC wasnt required immediately 
makes the recommendation to transfer Mr Ns OPS benefits unsuitable.
To my mind, Mr Ns requirement for extra income in the short-term was his only pressing 
need at the time of the advice. I appreciate that transferring the OPS benefits wouldve given 
Mr N the flexibility to draw some extra income as and when it was required. But I dont think 
that was a good enough reason alone to transfer  as Ive said above, Mr N was likely to be 
worse off in retirement if he transferred his OPS benefits, so I think the adviser ought to have 
considered the alternative options available to Mr N. It shouldve also explained whether or 
not they were viable and why.
Mr Ns DCS had a value of around £27,500 at the time of the advice. It isnt clear why the 
adviser didnt consider recommending Mr N switching this pension to a flexi-drawdown 
arrangement in order to provide him with some additional income, once it became clear that 
he wouldnt be able to repay his mortgage straight away by taking his OPS benefits. I think 
this wouldve been a more suitable alternative to Mr N transferring his OPS. Mr N couldve 
relied on the TFC available from this pension and his remaining savings to meet his 
outgoings. And if he required more income thereafter, he couldve drawn the remaining 
funds down. This wouldve left Mr Ns secure and valuable OPS intact.FFM couldve then arranged to revisit Mr Ns retirement options in a couple of years time, by 
which point he wouldve been 60 and could have enquired about retiring and taking his OPS 
benefits. The early repayment charges associated with his mortgage accounts wouldve also 
expired, so he wouldve been in a stronger position to repay his mortgage if he still wanted 
to. By failing to explore these options with Mr N, I think FFM failed to act in his best interests.
FFM says that it wasnt possible for Mr N to retire earlier than 65 because his OPS had a 
GMP and the scheme was underfunded. I accept that this was the position at the time of the 
advice. But I dont think it was reasonable to assume that Mr N definitely wouldnt have been 
able to retire earlier than 65. As Ive said above, Mr N had another way of meeting his 
immediate objective of obtaining more income. So, I think accessing his DCS instead 
wouldve allowed Mr N to put off his retirement for another couple of years and then explore 
taking his OPS benefits, at which time early retirement may have been possible.
It is clear that death benefits were important to Mr N and this could have been a valid reason 
to consider transferring an OPS. But I can see Mr N already had some life assurance that 
wasnt due to expire until September 2024. This wouldve provided a benefit of £100,000 in 
the event of his death, which was enough to cover the outstanding mortgage and wouldve 
left his wife with surplus funds. So, whilst I can see why Mr N wouldve wanted to provide 
extra funds in the event of his death, I dont think this need was important enough to give up 
his safeguarded benefits and risk getting a smaller pension at retirement.
FFM noted that one of Mr Ns main objectives was to secure the transfer value of his OPS. 
But FFM had a significant and overriding responsibility to challenge Mr Ns objectives and 
act in his best interest. Although it was possible a reduced transfer value would be available 
to Mr N should he decide to transfer his OPS at a later date, that isnt a good enough reason 
to transfer. Mr N wasnt a financial expert and was heavily reliant on FFM for its advice and 
expertise. So, I think it needed to do more than just note Mr Ns objectives and agree to 
facilitate them, especially when it ought to have been clear to FFM that Mr N would be worse 
off as a result.
I dont think the advice for Mr N to transfer his OPS was suitable and I think it presented a 
level of risk above what he shouldve been advised to take. Accordingly, I dont think it was 
in his best interests and so I think FFM shouldve provided Mr N with clear advice not to 
transfer his OPS. FFM provided Mr N with information about the transfer and warned him 
that he would be giving up guaranteed benefits. But that isnt as compelling as clear advice 
against transferring. And I dont believe the warning was as clear, comprehensive and 
balanced as it needed to be for him to make an informed decision about whether or not to 
transfer.
Ive thought about whether, if hed been correctly advised by FFM not to transfer, Mr N would 
have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe he would have.
I accept that Mr N approached FFM for advice, having already enquired with his employer 
about taking his OPS benefits early due to ill health. So, I accept he had a motivation for 
wanting to access his OPS. But I dont think the long-term disadvantages of doing so were 
set out clearly. I also think FFMs assessment of Mr Ns ATR was incorrect, which gave him 
the wrong impression about the likely pension he could achieve by transferring. Had FFM 
provided clear advice not to transfer because he would be worse off in retirement and had 
explained the alternative option he had to meet his immediate income needs, Im satisfied 
Mr N would not have decided to transfer his OPS against FFMs advice.
Putting things rightA fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr N, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for FFMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr N could have 
remained in the occupational scheme. FFM must therefore undertake a  redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ns acceptance of the decision. 
FFM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ns 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ns SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ns pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr N within 90 days of the date FFM 
receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must  be added 
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes FFM to pay 
Mr N.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
Determination and money award: I require Fairstone Financial Management Limited to 
pay Mr N the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Fairstone 
Financial Management Limited to pay Mr N any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000, I only require Fairstone 
Financial Management Limited to pay Mr N any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Fairstone Financial Management Limited pays Mr N the balance. I additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr N.
If Mr N accepts my final decision, the money award is binding on Fairstone Financial 
Management Limited. My recommendation is not binding on Fairstone Financial 
Management Limited. Further, its unlikely that Mr N can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr N may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Fairstone Financial Management Limited to pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman