DRN-3747558
The complaint
Miss B complains that Black Horse Limited did not fairly compensate her after it mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
Miss B told us she bought a car on credit in 2005 and a PPI policy was sold at the same 
time. The finance provider was Black Horse. Miss B was sold a single premium PPI policy. 
That means she had to borrow extra on top of the cost of the car to pay for the PPI. She also 
had to pay interest on the cost of the PPI policy. If the agreement ran to term, the total cost 
of the PPI, including interest, would have been £2,078.88. 
Miss B says she terminated the agreement with Black Horse and asked it to collect the 
vehicle. She says Black Horse agreed to take the car back. In the meantime, the car was 
towed away and ultimately destroyed because it was not taxed. Miss B says it was the 
responsibility of Black Horse to tax and recover the car once she had terminated the 
agreement. 
In or around 2014, Miss B complained about the sale of PPI. Her complaint was upheld and 
it fell to Black Horse to compensate her for that mis-sale. Black Horse calculated Miss Bs 
compensation at £727.49. But it said it was keeping the funds back because Miss B had an 
outstanding balance on her account. 
Miss B complained to this service in August 2021. She said she didnt think Black Horse 
should have kept the funds back because the finance agreement had been terminated. Miss 
B thought Black Horse should pay the PPI compensation to her directly. 
Black Horse did not initially agree to the matter being considered by this service because it 
said the complaint had been made too late. It later waived its objection. Our adjudicator then 
considered the case and thought it was fair for Black Horse to keep the compensation back. 
Through her representative, Miss B indicated she did not agree with our adjudicators view 
and the matter was passed to me to make a final decision. 
I asked our adjudicator to obtain some further information from Black Horse. In response, 
Black Horse sent us a screenshot to show that the account was written off on 9 July 2010 
with an outstanding balance of £7,940.76. I can see that on 25 September 2014, there were 
two credits to the written off account of £593.97 and £1,484.91. In total, the credits came to 
£2,078.88, which is the same as the PPI cost shown on the credit agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to disappoint Miss B, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
The background to this case is complex. I can see Miss B says she returned the car to Black 
Horse and effectively argues that she did not owe £7,940.97 when her account was written 
off in 2010. Within the scope of this PPI complaint, I cannot consider whether the car was 
surrendered. If Miss B considers she does not owe the amount claimed by Black Horse, that 
is an issue that would need to be considered by way of a separate complaint. However, if 
such a complaint were made to this service, it may not be possible for it to be looked at 
because time limits may well apply. 
The parties agree that PPI was mis-sold. So that means I dont have to consider what 
happened at the point of sale. Miss B hasnt disputed whether Black Horses calculation of 
compensation is correct. So, what Ive considered in this decision is whether it was fair for 
Black Horse to keep the compensation back and not pay it directly to Miss B. 
As I said above, Miss B was sold a single premium PPI policy. With a single premium policy, 
Id generally expect Black Horse to refund to Miss B the extra amount she borrowed for the 
PPI, along with 8% simple interest to compensate her for the time shed been without that 
money.
I know Miss B doesnt think shes responsible for the debt Black Horse says is outstanding. 
But when the account was written off, Miss B would have paid for some, but not all, of the 
PPI cost. It looks as though Black Horse calculated that she would have paid £727.49 
towards the PPI policy at that point. But the cost of the PPI was more than that. So when the 
account was written off, part of that £7,940.76 balance was for the PPI premium that Miss B 
had borrowed, but had not paid back. Miss B is not out of pocket for the total cost of the PPI. 
Ive looked at whether it was fair for Black Horse to keep back the £727.49 it says Miss B 
paid. Black Horse still owns the debt and it has not been sold on to a third-party. I appreciate 
the account was written off in 2010, but that doesnt mean the outstanding balance has 
gone away. It just means that Black Horse decided not to take action to recover that amount. 
I can also see the total cost of the PPI was credited to the written off account shortly after 
Black Horse made its decision about the mis-sale in 2014. 
So, in order for Black Horse to keep that money back, Id need to be satisfied there was a 
close connection between the £727.49 in PPI compensation and the outstanding debt. In this 
case, the PPI that was sold to Miss B was directly connected to the loan she took out for the 
car. They are both for the same account, so Im satisfied the PPI compensation and the loan 
debt are closely connected. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Miss B is having any financial difficulties that would 
make it unfair for Black Horse to keep that money back. And other than that which Ive set 
out above, I havent seen anything to show that it would otherwise be unfair for Black Horse 
to use the compensation to reduce the outstanding balance. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Miss B. I know she feels strongly that there 
shouldnt be an outstanding balance on her account. I know she wanted me to tell Black 
Horse to terminate the agreement. But for the reasons Ive set out above, that would be 
beyond the scope of this complaint about whether she was fairly compensated for being mis-
sold PPI. Putting all of this together, my decision is that it was fair for Black Horse to offset 
Miss Bs compensation from the balance it said was outstanding on her account. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about Black Horse Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman