DRN-2436183
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vitality Corporate Services Limited failed to make an arranged call 
which led to his life assurance policy being cancelled, causing him financial loss as well as 
distress and inconvenience.
 
What happened
Mr H had a VitalityLife Plan ('the policy')  this was a life assurance policy that paid a fixed 
sum on the death of Mr H. From January 2020 Mr H began missing monthly premiums of 
£106. And in June 2020, after no payments were received for several months, Vitality 
cancelled Mr H's policy.
Mr H complained. Vitality said the policy was correctly cancelled due to a fourth missed 
payment. It noted that several notices were sent to Mr H before the policy was cancelled, so 
it didnt think it had done anything wrong in this regard. But Vitality did accept that Mr H 
hadnt been called back by one of its agents in April 2020  this call was set up to discuss 
what options were available to Mr H to clear the arrears. Vitality offered Mr H £50 for its 
mistake.
 
In brief, our investigator agreed with Vitalitys offer of £50 as, overall, he thought it 
communicated clearly with Mr H about the consequences of the missed payments. Mr H 
disagreed. He said he hadn't read Vitality's letters or emails. And he wanted much more 
compensation as now because of age, he is paying more for a new policy with another 
provider. He said this wouldnt have happened if Vitalitys agent had called him back as 
arranged. Mr H asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I understand that Mr H has raised a number of points during his 
contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point he's raised, Ive considered 
everything Mr H has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome 
of the case. I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about what happened 
I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
Mr H says Vitality was at fault because its agent didnt call him back as arranged  this was 
arranged to discuss ways he (Mr H) could repay the outstanding arrears. Mr H says when he 
didnt hear back from the agent, he thought a payment holiday had been applied to his 
account. And this is why he didnt take any further action to pay the arrears at a point where 
the amount owing was still relatively low. But Mr H says by the time the policy was cancelled, 
he couldnt afford to pay the arrears as hed fallen too far behind.
Having listened to the call with the agent, I can hear that Mr H said he wasnt able to make 
the next payment because he was experiencing financial difficulties. He said he wasnt sure 
when hed receive any income. So, on balance, Im satisfied this was the reason Mr H didnt 
set up a payment plan to clear the arrears. I say this because Mr H did receive several 
notices by post and email about the missed payments. Notably, on 1 April 2020 he received 
an email from Vitality outlining various options to repay the arrears  the email contained 
links which invited Mr H to select an option. All of the options involved payment either 
immediately, in one payment, or in instalments, spread over a period of time. But this email 
wasnt responded to by Mr H.
So looking at everything, I dont think I can fairly say that it was the fault of Vitality that the 
account wasnt brought up to date before the policy was cancelled. I think its likely that a 
payment plan to pay the arrears was not made due to Mr Hs financial difficulties. I make no 
judgement on Mr H for that  I appreciate its been a difficult time for him and his family. But I 
cant fairly hold Vitality responsible for the cancellation of a policy that was due to Mr Hs 
personal circumstances, rather than something Vitality did, or didnt do. And given the 
notices sent to Mr H and the arrears that remained unpaid, I think Vitality acted fairly and 
reasonably when it cancelled his policy.
Mr H says he wasnt reading his emails and doesnt remember receiving any of the letters 
from Vitality until he received its notice of cancellation in June. But I can see the letters sent 
to him were correctly addressed, so on balance, I think they were correctly received by Mr H. 
Further, Mr H doesnt deny receiving emails from Vitality  instead he says he wasnt reading 
any emails at around that time (March/ April). Given Mr H did know that his account was in 
arrears and was aware this could lead to his policy being cancelled, I think the onus was him 
to contact Vitality if he wanted to make arrangements to keep his cover in place.
So whilst I acknowledge a mistake was made in not calling him back, on balance, I think 
Vitalitys offer of £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused, is fair. I know Mr H hasnt 
accepted this offer to date. But for the reasons Ive outlined above, I wont be asking Vitality 
to do anything further.
My final decision
Im upholding the complaint in part, in that Im ordering Vitality Corporate Services Limited to 
pay Mr H its offer of £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman