DRN-4510187
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt pursue his chargeback 
dispute, in respect of a payment he made to a hotel on his debit card. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional
decision. I said:
In December 2022, Mr A made a booking for a hotel stay in Morocco. He was debited 
£593.65 for the stay that was due to take place between 13 and 22 December 2022.  
Mr A says that he raised several concerns with the hotel room he was provided. These 
included the room being unclean and having clogged and leaking sinks. As a result, Mr A 
asked for compensation to reflect the stay falling below expectations. The hotel confirmed no 
compensation would be provided. Therefore, Mr A contacted Barclays to see if it could assist 
further. 
Barclays raised a chargeback dispute and Mr A was given a temporary refund for the full 
cost of his stay. The hotel however defended the chargeback and provided evidence to 
support its defence. Given this, Barclays asked Mr A to provide a response within 10 days. 
Mr A contacted Barclays and confirmed he wished to continue the dispute. Mr A was given 
an email address to provide his response and further evidence to. Mr A says he did email 
Barclays with what it had requested to consider the chargeback further. However, the email 
address given to him by the Barclays advisor was incorrect.
Barclays have said that as no response was received, the temporary refund was removed. 
Mr A raised a complaint and Barclays issued its final response on 20 March 2023. In this 
Barclays said it had provided an incorrect email address and to apologise for the 
inconvenience this caused, paid Mr A £75. Barclays said it was now out of time for it to re-
challenge the chargeback. But it said it wouldve investigated further, had Mr A forwarded 
the original email to show he did respond inside the 10-day deadline. Barclays said the 
emails Mr A sent didnt contain the original email and the dates were inconsistent. Therefore, 
it wouldnt be taking the matter further. 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and concluded Barclays didnt need to do anything 
further. She said she was satisfied Mr A did email Barclays inside the 10-day timeframe. But 
that given the evidence and chargeback rules, she didnt feel the chargeback wouldve likely 
succeeded. Therefore, she said the £75 it had already paid was fair and reasonable. 
Mr A responded and said the complaint wasnt about whether the chargeback may or may 
not have been successful, but that Barclays error meant he lost the opportunity for it to be 
considered with the additional evidence he sent in time. The investigator acknowledged this 
but maintained that as she felt the chargeback wouldnt have been successful, the error 
hadnt caused any financial loss and the £75 was reasonable for what had happened. 
After some further responses along similar lines from both Mr A and the investigator, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. I would like to point out Ive read and 
considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think 
about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Mr As dispute here is that the service he received was defective. So, I think Barclays did 
raise the chargeback correctly. The hotels response to the dispute about the room being 
defective appears to just be evidence that Mr A stayed there. I feel this a weak defence 
considering the actual dispute being raised against it. Given this, Barclays couldve 
challenged further, without requesting additional comments/evidence from Mr A. 
But in any event, having looked at the evidence, it does appear that Mr A emailed Barclays 
further evidence to support his dispute and did so inside Barclays 10-day deadline. I also 
note that before the chargeback was initially raised, Mr A advised Barclays he had further 
supporting evidence he could provide. Barclays couldve requested this first, to ensure the 
chargeback had the best chance of being successful. 
Given this, Im satisfied Barclays didnt robustly pursue the chargeback dispute here for Mr 
A. Had Barclays done so, I dont know what the hotel mayve provided further to defend its 
position. So, its difficult to say what the outcome of the chargeback mayve been. Mr A 
wouldve likely only ever received a partial refund in the event the chargeback succeeding, 
But Barclays actions have meant that Mr A has now lost the opportunity to find out.
Barclays paid Mr A £75 for the inconvenience caused by its poor service and for it providing 
an incorrect email address. Mr A has also suffered additional distress due to his dispute not 
being pursued further and the lost opportunity for this to now happen. I believe Barclays 
should pay a further £75 to compensate Mr A for this. This takes the total award to £150 
which I feel is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Barclays and Mr A confirmed they were willing to accept the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr A and Barclays have accepted my provisional decision, and neither party has
provided any new information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, Barclays should do the following: 
Ensure Mr A receives compensation totaling £150 for the distress and 
inconveniences this matter has caused him. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) to put things right 
for Mr A as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman