DRN-3935494
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires would 
not extend the term and agree a new interest rate product on their buy-to-let mortgage 
without first receiving advice from an independent mortgage adviser.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R have a buy-to let mortgage with Birmingham Midshires with the term due to 
end in 2024. The property has cladding problems, which are affecting its value. 
In 2022, Mr and Mrs R asked Birmingham Midshires if they could reduce the mortgage 
balance, extend the term of the mortgage and take out a new fixed interest rate product, in 
the hope that the cladding issues would be resolved during the extended term. 
Birmingham Midshires responded to say that it no longer accepted applications directly and 
that Mr and Mrs R would need to apply through an independent financial adviser. It gave 
details of a website where Mr and Mrs R could find an adviser.
Mr and Mrs R complaint that they used the website but it did not sort out their problem. Mr R 
said that he had to answer lots of questions which werent relevant.
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept what the investigator said. They made a number of points, 
including:
Birmingham Midshires could have indicated if the application had any prospect of 
success so they could make an informed decision on whether to pay for advice or not.
The information Birmingham Midshires gave them included advisers that would not deal 
with the application.
In August 2023, Birmingham Midshires wrote to them to say the mortgage was due to be 
repaid in 2024 and that they should contact it if they cant repay. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant see that Birmingham Midshires ever told Mr and Mrs R that it would deal with them 
directly over the life of the mortgage. It is not unusual for some lenders to only accept 
applications through mortgage brokers. I dont consider it is unfair or unreasonable for 
Birmingham Midshires to insist on that here. And ultimately it is its decision how it accepts 
applications.
I can see why Mr and Mrs R think it would have been straightforward for Birmingham 
Midshires to say whether their proposals were likely to be accepted or not. But I take it from 
the fact that Birmingham Midshires told them to seek advice that the proposals Mr and Mrs R 
put forward were on the face of it acceptable. It has explained that it will consider term 
extensions and rate switches. 
From what Mr and Mrs R have said, I think they wanted a bit more certainty than that. But I 
dont see how a lender could reasonably give them the assurance they wanted without 
looking into things a bit more. I dont consider there was any requirement for Birmingham 
Midshires to do so. It has explained that its process if for applications to be made through a 
broker. There is no pre-application approval process. 
Birmingham Midshires has said it only accepts applications through brokers  and Ive found 
that is reasonable. So I dont consider it was unfair or unreasonable for it merely tell Mr and 
Mrs R they needed to use an adviser and to give them details of a website they could use to 
find one. 
I am only considering a complaint about Birmingham Midshires. The website is supplied by a 
different unconnected company. So I cant make any findings on how easy or not the 
website was to use or the results it gave.
Mr and Mrs R have pointed out that Birmingham Midshires sent a letter asking it to contact it 
if they needed help. But that is for borrowers who are unable to repay the mortgage at the 
end of term. Looking at what Mr and Mrs R said to Birmingham Midshires in 2022, I cant see 
that it should have understood that they werent able to repay or were struggling. They were 
exploring their options to amend the mortgage. And Birmingham Midshires gave them clear 
and accurate information about what they needed to do. It was Mr and Mrs Rs decision 
whether to do that or not.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman