DRN-2525328
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Hartley Pensions Limited. He is unhappy about a delay it 
caused in his making investments in his pension portfolio.
  
What happened
Mr W wanted to make an investment from funds held in his SIPP with Hartley. His IFA sent 
the necessary documentation to Hartley in May 2019. This was received on 7 June 2019, but 
the IFA didnt receive the signed documents until 16 July 2019 despite the signatures being 
dated 12 June 2019.
Mr W complained saying that his investment had been delayed and that he has lost out as a 
result as the unit price of the investment had increased. 
Hartley responded and said that it intended to uphold the complaint. But it hasnt calculated 
loss or made any offer.
The complaint was referred to this service. The investigator said that it should be upheld, but 
Hartley didnt respond. So, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hartley has already said that it was responsible for delay, but it hasnt calculated the loss or 
made any payment to Mr W. It didnt respond to the investigators view.
Ive looked at the timeline and can see that the documents which required signature by 
Hartley were received by it on 7 June 2019. These documents didnt reach Mr Ws IFA until 
16 July 2019 despite being signed on 12 June 2019.
I think it would have been realistic to expect the IFA to have received the documents within 2 
days of them being signed, and so by 14 June 2019. Im satisfied that there was an 
unnecessary delay of 32 days.
Hartley has now responded to me and confirmed its agreement that the delay was 32 days.
Putting things right
Hartley should calculate the number of units Mr W wouldve been able to purchase with his 
investment (of £20,000) if it had been made 32 days earlier.
If he would have been able to buy more units than he did, it must calculate the cost of the 
additional units at the date of this decision and pay that amount to him.
Hartley must also pay Mr W £100 in recognition of the upset that the lengthy delays have 
caused in his retirement planning.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about Hartley Pensions Limited. It must calculate and pay redress as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman