DRN-3018330
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the level of service received from National Westminster Bank Plc in 
regard to her investment portfolio.
Mrs H is being represented in her complaint by a family member. For ease I will refer to all 
actions as being those of Mrs H.
What happened
Mrs H held an investment portfolio with NatWest for many years. She is unhappy with both 
the performance of her investments in recent years, and with the level of customer service 
received. Amongst Mrs Hs concerns is that she feels NatWest didnt treat her fairly as they 
didnt let her know about new products which may have been more suitable for her with 
lower fees. 
NatWest looked into Mrs Hs concerns. They explained that there was no obligation for them 
to tell customers about new products. They also said the statements over the years had 
highlighted the charges and costs associated with Mrs Hs portfolio. About the performance 
of the portfolio NatWest said they were sorry the return wasnt what Mrs H had hoped for 
they didnt uphold that aspect of the complaint. NatWest did offer £250 due to issues around 
the scheduling of reviews and said that wasnt the level of service expected.
Mrs H didnt accept the offer of £250 and brought her complaint to our service where one of 
our investigators looked into what happened. They felt the £250 was fair but didnt see any 
obligation for NatWest to give ongoing advice or to let Mrs H know about any new products. 
Mrs H disagreed saying she hadnt been treated fairly and that because of the size of her 
investment, and the level of fees being paid, she expected to be given information about new 
products.
Our investigator considered what Mrs H said about being treated fairly but still thought 
NatWest hadnt acted unreasonably or unfairly. Mrs H remained unhappy so the complaint 
has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has provided a lot of information about her complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. I want to assure Mrs H that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been submitted even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised what 
happened which reflects the informal nature of our service.  
Mrs H held a substantive portfolio with NatWest so I can understand why she would expect a 
certain level of service. This is especially the case when taking into account the fees that 
were being paid.
Ive looked at the fees Mrs H was paying and considered the relationship between her and 
Natwest. Ive seen no evidence that the fees were for any ongoing relationship regarding 
advice, or that the terms of the portfolio service said that ongoing advice would be provided. 
So Im satisfied that NatWest didnt have any obligation to provide Mrs H with any ongoing 
advice.
Alongside this Mrs H said that NatWest shouldve told her about any new products similar to 
those she already held. Mrs H said she expected to have been given information about new 
similar products that wouldve allowed her to explore options with an advisor. Mrs H also 
said that kind of information is given for other banking products and asks why it wasnt given 
to her about her portfolio considering the high value.
I can see Mr Hs concerns here and obviously it would have been to her advantage if 
NatWest had told her about new products available. This is especially the case as she did 
become aware of a different product that incurred less fees than she was paying. However I 
dont think NatWest had any obligation to give Mrs H information about any new products 
they offered. The information Mrs H refers to about other banking products would be more 
relevant when a new account is taken out, rather than an obligation to give such information 
to existing customers.  
Mrs H has made reference to the principles of Treating Customers Fairly and specifically to 
parts of Outcomes 3 and 5 where she doesnt feel NatWest have met their obligations to her.  
For Outcome 3 Mrs H has highlighted the part which says Consumers are provided with 
clear information. 
For Outcome 5 Mrs H has highlighted the part which says that associated service is of an 
acceptable standard. 
Ive looked at everything that happened and considered all the points made by Mrs H as well 
as the submissions from NatWest. Having done so Im satisfied NatWest did meet their 
obligations to treat Mrs H fairly. 
I think Mrs H was provided with clear information about the products she held with NatWest. 
Outcome 3 doesnt cover supplying customers with information about any new products that 
might be on offer.
I also think the level of service Mrs H received was of an acceptable standard  with the one 
exception that led to NatWest offering a payment of £250. As Ive explained above there was 
no ongoing agreement for advice to be given and in the interactions between Mrs H and 
NatWest I think acceptable service was provided. 
NatWest made an offer of £250 because they felt the service provided around the review 
check-in process wasnt the level they expected. They explained the process around 
reviews and checking in with existing customers, such as Mrs H, was put on hold due to 
other business priorities. 
These reviews were to assess whether the product a customer already had were still right 
for them. The check-in review wasnt to offer or explain new products. For this customers 
would be required to have a full review with new advice. So whilst it seems Mrs H missed out 
on a review, I dont think even if that review had happened she wouldve been told about any 
new products. Nevertheless, I agree the £250 for the issues around the check-in review is 
fair and reasonable for what happened. 
Mrs H is also unhappy with the performance of her portfolio over the recent years. Having looked at all the information Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs Hs portfolio wasnt 
managed and invested in the way agreed. So whilst the return might not have been what 
Mrs H expected it to be, I dont think this was due to any errors made by NatWest. 
There has also been mention of the fees Mrs H has been charged. Ive looked at the 
information and Ive not seen any evidence that the fees charged werent as agreed between 
Mrs H and NatWest. Mrs H might think that a better level of service shouldve been provided 
for the amount of fees being paid, and I can see her point of view. However I dont think any 
mistakes were made with the amount of fees being charged. And I also think these fees 
were fairly brought to her attention.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied that overall NatWest 
treated Mrs H fairly and reasonably. On the one occasion the service wasnt what it 
shouldve been Im happy the £250 on offer is a fair way of putting things right.  
Putting things right
National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mrs H £250.
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mrs H £250 to settle the 
complaint and I think the offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mrs H £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman