DRN-3043436
The complaint
Mr M has complained about advice from Kings in 2003 to transfer the value of his preserved 
benefits in a former employers defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS). 
What happened
In 2003 Mr M sought advice about taking tax free cash from his OPS. He completed a 
financial questionnaire on 11 March 2003 following telephone calls with Regal, an appointed 
representative of Kings. Amongst other things it recorded that Mr M was almost 52 years old, 
married and working. He earned £1,000 gross pm and his wife earned £750 gross pm. Mr M 
had a balanced attitude to risk. He wanted to retire at age 65. He required a cash lump sum 
(about £3,000) to reduce his existing debts or loans and leave him with more money each 
month. 
A suitability report was issued by Kings on 22 April 2003. It said that, in terms of maximising 
his retirement income, early retirement and transferring wasnt suitable and that Mr M should 
consider carefully the future benefits hed be giving up for those hed gain today. But, based 
on his over-riding objective of obtaining tax free cash at the present time, Mr Ms options 
were detailed.  The letter said Mr M was looking to raise approximately £3,000 to clear his 
existing debts. 
The OPS had a retirement age of 60. Mr M wouldve been entitled to a pension of £4,701 per 
year and a tax free lump sum of £14,105. A copy of the transfer value analysis (TVAS) had 
been done and was enclosed. The OPS had a retirement age of 60. Mr M wouldve been 
entitled to a pension of £4,701 per year and a tax free lump sum of £14,105. He wasnt 
eligible for early retirement but for comparative purposes the TVAS showed, if Mr M took the 
OPS benefits in 2003, a pension of £3,858.31 pa, including a guaranteed minimum pension 
(GMP) of £2,059.06, plus a tax free lump sum of £11,576.43. 
Kings recommended, taking into account Mr Ms circumstances, requirements and the 
benefits and disadvantages of all the options open to him, that the GMP and non GMP 
benefits were split. The GMP benefits remained invested and the non GMP benefits were 
crystallised. Mr M took tax free cash of £12,802 and used the remaining non GMP benefits 
to purchase an annuity, providing an annual pension of £692.52. 
In 2018 Mr M complained, via his representative, to Kings that the advice had been 
unsuitable. His complaint wasnt upheld and it was referred to us. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. In his view issued on 27 October 
2020 he upheld the complaint. In summary he said:
Kings had informed Mr M of the key considerations and risks of transferring. But that 
didnt make transferring suitable for him. Kings had to justify its advice by explaining 
to Mr M how it would be in his best interests to transfer. 
Businesses werent required to refer to the discount rates for use in loss 
assessments following the industrywide Pensions Review. But they gave a useful 
indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably achievable 
when the advice was given. The critical yield was 14.6% pa. That compared with a 
discount rate of 7.1% pa for the thirteen years to Mr Ms retirement. And the critical 
yield far exceeded the recent average return on the investments Kings had 
recommended  predominantly low risk investments and suitable for Mr M.
Kings had said in the suitability letter that the high critical yield was an indicator of the 
valuable benefits being given up. There was little prospect of Mr M matching, let 
alone exceeding, the value of the pension benefits he already had by transferring. 
Hed have needed to invest in higher risk assets  which wouldnt have been suitable 
for him  to have any chance of improving the value of his pension benefits. 
But Mr Ms objective was to release the maximum amount of tax free cash to clear 
some debts. It wouldnt be fair to say transferring wasnt in his best interests simply 
because it was likely he wouldnt achieve a higher pension as a result. 
It wasnt apparent if Kings was aware of Mr Ms other pension provisions. The 
pension he was advised to transfer was his most significant pension provision at the 
time and wouldve provided him with a guaranteed income for life of £4,701 pa. It was 
reasonable to conclude he was dependent on that pension. He didnt have the 
capacity for loss that transferring exposed him to. 
The debts Mr M was looking to reduce appeared to be under control. He had an 
endowment policy in place to repay his mortgage. And his net household income far 
exceeded his household expenses, including his loan repayments. Kings didnt 
establish why Mr M needed to clear his debts to free up more of his income. Mr M 
had said he needed £500 to repay a family member. That was a relatively small 
amount and owed to a family member rather than a business and wasnt a justifiable 
reason to give up a guaranteed retirement income. 
Mr M couldve achieved his objective by other means. Although he wasnt eligible for 
early retirement from the OPS, his savings were more than the cash amount hed 
said he needed. Consolidating his debts doesnt appear to have been explored. Hed 
said he was unwilling to use his savings but it didnt appear Kings had challenged 
him on that. And there was nothing to support what Mr M had said about not being 
able to raise finance. 
The transfer wasnt justified by more flexible death benefits. 
The short term gain came at the expense of a greater, guaranteed, lifetime income in 
retirement. It wasnt in Mr Ms best interests to transfer. If Kings had advised him to 
use his savings to clear his debts rather than to transfer his pension to take cash 
from it, hed have followed that advice. 
The investigator set out how Kings should redress Mr M  by undertaking a redress 
calculation in line with the Pension Review methodology as amended by the regulator in 
October 2017. 
Mr Ms representative confirmed that Mr M accepted what the investigator had said. Kings 
didnt. It made further comments. Its main points were:
The starting point was that transfer wasnt suitable. That was explained to Mr M very 
clearly over the telephone and is supported by the letter sent to him. But his financial 
position meant the transfer was in his best interests. He knew hed have a substantially smaller pension at retirement, but hed be better 
off for the thirteen years prior to retirement, during which time he could recoup the 
financial loss and substantially improving his quality of life. His stated objective was 
to release the maximum tax free cash to clear some debts and improve his life, both 
mentally and financially. 
There was no requirement to refer to the discount rates which the investigator had 
mentioned. Mr M knew that14.6% pa wasnt achievable. That was explained to him. 
He knew there was little prospect of matching, let alone exceeding, the value of the 
existing benefits. But, despite that, he still wanted to proceed. Hed have needed to 
invest in higher risk asset to have a better chance of improving the value of his 
pension benefits. But such investments werent suitable for him, which is why they 
werent recommended. 
He was aware that, to bring his pension back up to the same level, hed have to put 
more money in. He had other pensions. He was partially reliant on this pension for 
fund his retirement and so he didnt have the capacity to bear the losses of 
transferring. But he was prepared to accept that in return for the benefits hed gain. A 
secure income isnt in everyones best interest. It will depend on their specific 
circumstances. Mr M had explained that he was prepared to give up that secure 
income for an improvement in his quality and financial life. 
The investigator had said Mr M couldve achieved his objective by other means.  But 
Mr M had been told he wasnt eligible for early retirement from the OPS. He was 
aware that taking money away from the OPS would mean the guaranteed pension 
couldnt be met. 
Consolidating Mr Ms debts to make them more manageable was explored. He made 
it clear in discussions, and its documented in the financial questionnaire, that 
consolidation and borrowing were considered but discounted. Mr M had said hed 
attempted to raise finance without success. And that he was unwilling to use his 
savings. Kings had challenged him about that. Kings could produce a cash flow 
modelling or forecast to support the argument that Mr M was better off by 
transferring. It was explained to him that, in the short term, his financial position 
would be improved because of the tax free cash and annuity income he received. He 
knew it was a short term gain. 
The investigator hadnt explained why the more flexible death benefits werent 
important or valuable enough to justify the transfer. The financial questionnaire which 
Mr M signed in March 2003 records this as very important and that his objective was 
to receive the maximum lump sum from his pension then. 
There are causation issues. Mr M wouldve proceeded even if Kings advice had 
been to use his savings to clear his debts. Thats evidenced by the fact that he tried 
more than once to access his OPS benefits. The investigator had said Mr M had to 
pay £500 back to a family member. But the questionnaire records he had a £9,000 
credit card debit and he needed to reduce his existing debts to leave him with more 
money each month. When the OPS wouldnt allow him to access his benefits early, 
he took the only steps open to him. He did so knowing hed be worse off in 
retirement. He was aware that wasnt suitable in the longer term and hed be 
substantially worse off. 
Kings also said that the earlier decision that Mr Ms complaint wasnt time barred was 
inequitable and had influenced the merits view. 
The investigator considered what Kings had said. But he wasnt persuaded to change his 
view. In summary he said:Kings had informed Mr M of the risks and key considerations involved in transferring. 
But it had to be evidenced, based on Mr Ms circumstances at the time, that 
transferring was in his best interests. Mr M wasnt an expert and, although hed 
shown an interest in transferring, that was based on his objectives of clearing his 
debts. Hed have followed Kings advice, irrespective of whether it was to transfer. 
A comparison of the critical yield and the discount rates wasnt required. But it was a 
reasonable measure of whether the critical yield is likely to be achievable. As Kings 
had noted, the critical yield was high and wasnt achievable. Mr M had been made 
aware of that and that, as a result, hed likely be worse off in retirement. But Kings 
still had a responsibility to give him suitable advice. Mr M didnt have the capacity to 
bear the losses transferring exposed him to. The short term advantage didnt make 
up for the longer term losses he was likely to suffer. 
There was no record to show that Mr M had been challenged on what hed said 
about not wanting to use his savings. Hed said he couldnt recall why he didnt want 
to do that which would suggest his savings werent earmarked for a particular 
purpose. If hed been advised to use his savings to reduce his debts, hed have 
followed that advice. 
The transfer facilitated more flexible death benefits but, given Mr Ms good health, 
theres no reason to think this would have been a priority or reason enough on its 
own to warrant transferring. 
Mr Ms short term financial objectives didnt justify the sacrifice of guaranteed 
pension benefits. Kings advice was unsuitable.
As the complaint wasnt settled it was referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first revisited jurisdiction. Were required to keep jurisdiction under review throughout our 
consideration of a complaint and up to the issue of a final decision on the merits of the 
complaint.  Ive read my colleagues decision. Im in agreement and I dont have anything to 
add. She considered the points Kings raised in response to the investigators merits view  
whether Mr M shouldve known from the outset that he may have been given unsuitable 
advice; the OPS refusal to allow him to retire early and what it had said about Mr M giving 
up guaranteed benefits; and what happened in 2011. Mr Ms complaint hasnt been made 
too late and we can consider it. 
As to suitability, I agree with the investigator and, in the main, with the reasons he gave 
(summarised above) that the advice wasnt suitable for Mr M. 
The investigator said, at the time, the starting point, in advising on this sort of transfer, was 
that a transfer wont be in the customers best interests. Thats the current regulatory position 
 see COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 19.1.6G (2) and (3). Earlier versions of the 
regulators rules contained a similar presumption. The Conduct of Business (COB) rules, 
applicable at the time the advice was given in this case, didnt include the pensions 
supplementary provisions now contained in COBS 19. But special provisions about the 
suitability of pension transfers and opt outs were included in COB 5.3 (see COB 5.3.13G (2) 
and (4) and COB 5.3.21R to COB 5.3.27R and COB 5.3.29G).The wording of the earlier presumption in the COB rules was slightly different in that it 
referred to an active member of a DB scheme. There could be an argument that didnt apply 
to members such as Mr M who had deferred benefits in his OPS. But active wasnt defined 
and could, by implication at least, extend to members such as Mr M. But, even if the 
presumption didnt apply at the time, it would still be for Kings to demonstrate that its advice 
was suitable for Mr M. 
Kings has suggested that the investigator was wrong to refer to the discount rate in looking 
at if the critical yield was achievable. The investigator has made it clear that he agrees there 
was no requirement to consider the discount rate. But, whilst businesses werent required to 
refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I agree with the investigator 
that they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered 
reasonably achievable. 
That said, I dont think anything turns on this anyway, given that Kings accepts that the 
critical yield wasnt achievable. The investment return required to provide a fund that could 
purchase pension benefits equivalent to those given up was 14.6%. And Mr Ms low attitude 
to risk meant that higher risk assets, which might have generated higher returns, werent 
suitable. 
I dont think theres any dispute that the transfer wasnt justified on financial grounds. But 
financial viability isnt the only consideration. Other factors can mean that a transfer is 
suitable, even though it will result in retirement benefits being reduced. 
Kings has mentioned the death benefits. When asked, most consumers will say that death 
benefits are important. Mr M was married and the OPS provided a 50% spouses pension. 
But, even if the death benefits following transfer were more flexible, the primary aim of 
retirement provision is to provide an income in retirement for the investor. Mr M was in good 
health and any importance he may have placed on death benefits was, in my view, 
secondary to ensuring that his own needs in retirement were met. 
Kings has emphasised that it was made clear to Mr M that hed be worse off in the longer 
term. Ive seen he signed the suitability report and a declaration confirming hed read and 
fully understood the recommendation. And the risks hed have to accept in following the 
recommendation and the future benefits he was foregoing in taking benefits immediately. 
But, and as the investigator stressed, making Mr M aware of the risks and that hed likely be 
worse off in the longer term, isnt sufficient. Regardless of that and what Mr M thought he 
wanted to do, it was up to Kings to give Mr M suitable advice. He wasnt the expert and he 
was reliant on Kings professional advice. 
From what Ive seen Mr Ms financial position wasnt desperate. He had some debts he 
wanted to clear  I note what Kings says about it not just being £500 that Mr M owed to a 
relative but that he also had an outstanding credit card of £9,000. The financial questionnaire 
also records an overdraft of £600 and a £10,000 loan due to be repaid in 2010. Having 
outstanding liabilities may have been causing Mr M some stress. But the situation didnt 
involve, for example, mortgage arrears or some other very pressing financial commitment 
which Mr M really had no choice but to clear immediately. I note that he was only looking to 
raise £3,000 so it didnt seem he was looking to clear his debts completely. 
Mr M had more than that  some £4,000  in savings. He also had a large monthly 
disposable income. He couldve put some of that towards paying off debts or to service a 
loan on a more favourable interest rate than his credit card provider is likely to have charged. 
Or used his disposable income to replace the savings hed used to clear his debt. Kings has 
said it challenged Mr M on why he was reluctant to use his savings. But, and as the 
investigator pointed out, theres no real evidence to show what conversations with Mr M took place. So I cant be sure that other avenues were fully discussed with Mr M and that there 
were good reasons to discount them. 
Kings has said it can produce a cash flow model. But I dont think that, after the event, would 
assist. Any forecast shouldve been produced at the time and discussed with Mr M. 
I dont ignore that Mr M knew the critical yield far exceeded the likely rates of return  that 
was explained to him and he apparently accepted that. But providing an explanation doesnt 
make the advice suitable. The alternative would have been for Kings to explain to Mr M that 
it couldnt advise him to transfer just so that he could access his tax free cash early and that, 
despite his reluctance to access his savings, that was a more sensible option. 
Mr M apparently regarded his benefits as an insignificant proportion of his pension fund as 
he had other pensions. Again, theres nothing to show that Kings challenged that or explored 
with Mr M his reasons for that view. I understand Mr M had two other pensions  a small 
final salary OPS (worth about £1,300) and a free standing additional voluntary contributions 
(FSAVC) fund that hes since used to purchase an annuity to provide him with an income of 
£29.83 a month. It seems the OPS benefits he transferred were his most significant pension 
provision. As Kings now accepts, Mr M was to some extent at least dependent on the 
benefits that this OPS would provide. He didnt have any capacity for loss. Thats another 
reason for ensuring that the valuable and guaranteed benefits the OPS provided were 
preserved. 
Like the investigator I dont think the advice to transfer so Mr M could take benefits early  in 
particular his tax free cash  was justified. 
As to causation, I dont agree that, if Kings had given suitable advice  that Mr M shouldnt 
transfer  that hed have proceeded in any event. I dont think its unreasonable to assume 
that most clients, having taken professional advice and for which they were paying, would 
follow the advice given. Mr M wasnt an experienced investor and he was reliant on 
professional advice. Logically I dont see theres any real reason to say, if Kings had told him 
it couldnt recommend he transfer to access his tax free cash, that its likely that Mr M 
wouldve insisted on going ahead anyway.
Further, Kings may not have been prepared to act for Mr M on an insistent client basis. In 
that case, had he wanted to proceed, hed have needed to have found another adviser. Who 
presumably wouldve given suitable advice  that Mr M shouldnt transfer. 
And, if Kings had been prepared to act on an insistent client basis, the process is likely to 
have concentrated Mr Ms mind on whether he really wanted to proceed, despite advice to 
the contrary. COBS 9.5A.3G sets out the information that must be communicated to an 
insistent client. The client must be informed that the firm hasnt recommended the 
transaction and it wont be in accordance with the firms personal recommendation; the 
reasons why that is; the risks of the proposed transaction; and the reasons why the firm 
didnt recommend that transaction to the client. And COBS 9.5A.4G requires an 
acknowledgement from the insistent client and, where possible, in the clients own words.
Those COBS provisions werent introduced until 3 January 2018. But insistent clients arent 
new. What COBS now says reflects the general position prior to then in terms of what 
constitutes an insistent client and the sort of process firms who deal with such clients are 
expected to have in place, even as far back as 2003. If Mr M had been asked to set out 
why he wanted to act contrary to the advice hed been given, thats likely to have made him 
think again about whether he really wanted to proceed despite advice against.All that aside, Kings didnt advise Mr M against transferring. Kings recommended that he 
transfer. That advice was unsuitable  any short term gain didnt justify giving up the 
valuable and guaranteed retirement benefits the OPS offered. Kings is responsible for the 
financial losses Mr M has suffered in consequence of acting on its unsuitable advice. Ive set 
out below how Kings needs to compensate Mr M, which follows what the investigator said. 
In a case such as this (where the act or omission was before 1 April 2019 and the complaint 
was referred to us before that date) I can award compensation up to £150,000 (plus any 
interest, costs, and interest on costs). From the calculation Ive seen, Mr Ms compensation 
will be less than that. But an updated calculation may show a higher (or lower) loss. Mr M 
should be aware, if he accepts my decision, it will be final and binding. Kings will be required 
to pay up to the limit Ive referred to. And its unlikely Mr M would be able to go to court to 
ask for further compensation. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Kings to put Mr M, as far as possible, in the 
position hed be n now but for the unsuitable advice. I think Mr M wouldve remained in the 
OPS. 
Kings must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Kings may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the OPS on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should be paid to Mr M as 
a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date 
Kings receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Kings 
to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decisionI uphold the complaint. Kings must redress Mr M as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman