DRN-4124099
The complaint
Miss L complains Tesco Personal Finance plc trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) unfairly 
declined her credit card application.
What happened
Miss L says she applied for a Tesco credit card in February 2023 and before applying she 
checked her credit score, which was very good, and a comparison website suggested she 
had a high percentage chance of acceptance. Miss L says she was very disappointed to 
learn her credit card application had been declined by Tesco, so she appealed the decision 
which again was rejected. 
Miss L says Tesco havent given her any explanation why her application was declined, and 
she wants Tesco to provide a full explanation or provide the credit card she applied for. 
Tesco says it looks at a full range of information when assessing applications and even after 
a manual review was undertaken, Miss Ls application still didnt meet its internal lending 
criteria. Tesco says it has done nothing wrong.
Miss L wasnt happy with Tescos response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator explained Tescos arent obliged to disclose its internal lending criteria as these 
are commercially sensitive. The investigator says while Miss Ls credit score may be strong 
thats not the only criteria Tescos would have used to assess her application as a number of 
considerations are taken into account. The investigator felt Tesco didnt need to explain why 
the application had been rejected and he couldnt tell Tesco to do so.
Miss L didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Miss L to learn her application for a Tesco 
credit card account had been declined. When looking at this complaint I will consider if 
Tesco acted unfairly when it refused Miss Ls credit card application. 
Miss Ls complaint centres around the fact despite having a good credit score and the fact 
she had prior indications her credit card application would be approved, Tesco rejected this 
without a full explanation why. 
I understand the points Miss L makes here but Im not fully persuaded by her argument. I 
say this because although Miss L maintains she has a very good credit score and a 
comparison website indicated a high percentage of acceptance, thats not to say Tesco 
would necessarily approve an application solely because of this. 
Its worth saying Tesco have its own internal lending criteria and it would consider many 
factors before approving a credit application and its fair to say Miss L being eligible for the 
credit card is only an indication that she meets the basic application requirements. 
Tescos internal lending criteria as explained by the investigator, is considered commercially 
sensitive information and its not my role to tell it that it must divulge this or the reason why 
Miss Ls application didnt meet those criteria. 
I have seen Tesco undertook a manual review of Miss Ls application after she appealed 
Tescos original decision, but it still felt it didnt meet its internal lending criteria  given that I 
cant ask Tesco to do any more than that here. I am satisfied Tesco fairly considered Miss 
Ls application but unfortunately it didnt meet its lending criteria at that time. 
While Miss L will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Tesco.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman