DRN-3773643
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plcs omissions have resulted in him not being able to 
secure a favourable mortgage he wanted.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In January 2022, a third party took out a fraudulent Santander loan in Mr Ws name.  
Santander accept that due to an error, it did not write off the loan when it should have, which 
resulted in it recording adverse information on Mr Ws credit file.  Mr W argues that 
Santanders omissions in this respect, ultimately led to him not being able to secure a 
mortgage he wanted with a bank I will refer to as N in this decision.  Instead, Mr W argues, 
he had to secure a less favourable mortgage with Santander.
Mr W raised this matter as a complaint with Santander.  Unhappy with its response, he 
referred his complaint to our Service.  One of our investigators considered it and did not ask 
Santander to do anything further.  As Mr W did not accept the investigators findings, this 
matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Mr Ws position, broadly, is that Santander should not have recorded the adverse 
information on his credit file; and had it removed the information within a reasonable 
timeframe  he would have been able to secure a mortgage he wanted with N.
I cannot fairly hold Santander liable for the fraudulent loan that was taken out in Mr Ws 
name.  Unfortunately, this loan was taken out by a fraudster, who was, by whatever means, 
able to gain the information required to deceive Santander into processing the lending.  It 
would not be fair of me, given these circumstances, to blame Santander for this.
It is right for me however, to consider whether Santander took reasonable steps to rectify 
things in a timely fashion once it had become aware of the situation concerning the loan.  
Santander has accepted that due to an error, it did not write off the loan when it should have.  
Consequently, Santander recorded adverse information on Mr Ws credit file.
In my view, Santanders error in this matter has caused Mr W distress and inconvenience.  
That is, the time Mr W had to take out to contact Santander to amend his credit file and the 
stress that would have flowed from this.  I find the £200 Santander has paid Mr W for this 
aspect of his complaint to be fair and reasonable; and in-line with what this Service would 
expect.  I am unable to accept however, that the sole reason N declined Mr Ws mortgage 
application was because of the adverse information recorded.  I will explain why.
Santander has requested evidence to support the proposition that Mr Ws mortgage 
application was declined by N solely because of the adverse information it (Santander) had 
recorded on Mr Ws credit file.  The investigator in this matter put this point to N. They 
responded stating that because of the stage at which Mr Ws application was declined  they 
are unable to confirm the reason for the decline.
I acknowledge Mr W argues that, given his circumstances, the decline was because of the 
adverse information Santander recorded.  I also acknowledge he has provided evidence of 
his credit file covering the relevant period which shows the only adverse information 
recorded was linked to the loan.  However, based on the evidence before me, I cannot fairly 
conclude that the adverse information was the sole cause for the decline.  I say this because 
lenders take into consideration several different factors when deciding whether to approve a 
mortgage application: for example, repayments, affordability and checks against the lenders 
own lending criteria etc.  Information recorded on ones credit file is not the only factor 
considered.  Therefore, as N is unable to confirm that the adverse information was the sole 
cause for the decline of the mortgage application  it follows that I cannot fairly say that 
Santander was at fault for this. 
Taking all the above points together, I will not be asking Santander to do anything further in 
this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman