DRN-3800196
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the way Domestic & General Insurance Plc has handled a claim he 
made on his jewellery insurance policy.
Reference to D&G includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr D claimed for three items stolen from his home in December 2020. In line with the 
terms of his policy, he visited the jewellery store where he bought the items and took 
out the policy.
The store referred the claim to D&G, who asked Mr D to provide further information, 
including completing a claim form and agreeing to share a Police report. He didnt 
think this was fair. He said his wife had claimed through D&G for other items stolen at 
the same time and the claim had been settled directly through the jewellery store.
D&G said it was entitled to ask Mr D to complete a claim form and to provide other 
relevant information. Soon after, it said it would settle the claim as soon as possible 
and paid for the three items.
Mr D had cancelled the policies for the stolen items in April and, as he had been 
without the items since the theft, D&G agreed to refund premiums for January to 
April. It also paid him £30 compensation.
Mr D then said more of his items had been stolen in December. He asked D&G to 
consider them as part of the claim.
D&G questioned why Mr D hadnt mentioned these items earlier. It said it was 
reasonable to ask him for further evidence, including a Police report.
Mr D provided the Police report. D&G said the information in the Police report was 
insufficient, noting it didnt itemise what had been reported stolen. It again questioned 
why Mr D hadnt claimed for all items initially. It didnt agree to pay for the second 
group of items Mr D had claimed for.
Our investigator thought D&G had acted fairly. He said D&G was entitled to validate 
the claim and it was fair for it to ask for more information in the circumstances.
Mr D didnt think this was fair. The key points he made were, in summary:
oAfter D&G declined the claim for the second group of items, it had cancelled 
all policies held by Mr D and members of his family.
oHe understood that in the event of a claim, all he needed to do was provide a 
crime reference number and it would be settled over the phone.
oThis is what happened with his wifes claim, but he had been treated 
differently.
oThe second group of items had been bought at a different store, so he would 
have needed to go there to make the claim for them. He had wanted to 
finalise the first claim and then complaint before starting the second claim. So 
he only raised the second claim when D&G had said it would settle the first 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made a number of complaints about the way his claim has been handled during 
2021. Ive considered events up to D&Gs final complaint response in December 2021, which 
gives its final position on the claim. Thats what this decision will focus on.
I understand in 2022 D&G cancelled other policies held by Mr D and members of his family. 
Theyre entitled to raise complaints about this if they wish and they may be able to refer 
them to this service. But as complaints have yet to be made about this, I wont be 
considering the cancellation problems within this decision. 
Mr D held a policy with D&G which covered his items for theft. D&G has paid for those he 
claimed for initially. The dispute has arisen because D&G hasnt paid for the second group of 
items. Its not satisfied hes provided enough information about them.
D&G notes the Police report says: 10 watches and unknown jewellery stolen £30k. Thats all 
the detail it provides about what was reported stolen. It also says the Police attempted to 
visit Mr D and asked for more information about what was stolen, but as he didnt engage 
any further, the Police closed its case. D&G says that because of this, the Police report 
doesnt provide a detailed list of the items claimed for. So it doesnt have evidence to show 
the items reported stolen are those covered by the policy.
Ive checked the policy and I dont agree with Mr D that it restricts D&G to accepting all 
claims over the phone if a crime reference number has been provided. It outlines steps a 
policyholder must take but also notes D&G may ask for further information to be provided. 
Thats common practice in insurance. And I dont think its unreasonable when the 
information requested is directly relevant to the claim, as it is here.
So I think its reasonable for D&G to seek evidence about each of the items before agreeing 
to pay for them. I find its request for Mr D to provide further information is reasonable in the 
circumstances. And as he hasnt provided any, Im satisfied it was fair for D&G to decline the 
second group of items he claimed.
A key part of Mr Ds complaint is that he was treated differently to his wife, despite her 
making a claim through a similar D&G policy and her loss resulting from the same event.
I think D&G is entitled to assess each claim as it sees fit, as long as it treats each of its 
policyholders fairly. For the reasons above, Im satisfied Mr D was treated fairly by D&G. And 
I note the circumstances of the two claims are markedly different  his wifes claim wasnt 
made in two stages, several months apart. Im satisfied thats a significant difference that 
reasonably explains why the claim journey is different.D&G has accepted there were some avoidable delays initially and paid Mr D £30 
compensation. Im satisfied thats reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr D has commented on the expectations he was given by the jewellery store. This 
complaint is about D&G and the way it handled his claim, so I cant comment on the actions 
of the store.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman