DRN-3703279
The complaint
Mrs K, and Mr K, complain that esure Insurance Limited handled their insurance claim for 
escape of water poorly. Mrs K has been the primary complainant in this case, so Ill mainly 
refer to her.
What happened
Mrs K has a home insurance policy with esure and had cause to claim on it due to escape of 
water, which she says was reported around mid-October 2021.
esure advised Mrs K that it was her responsibility to have the leaks fixed but that she may be 
able to claim for the water damage.
Mrs K arranged for a plumber to fix the leaks, although this took a little time. She then 
claimed at the beginning of November 2021  with esure sending a surveyor out.
Unfortunately, little progress was made following that and Mrs K ended up having the repairs 
done herself. Mrs K was concerned about damp in the property affecting the familys health.
This matter was looked at by an investigator here. They noted that esure had offered Mrs K 
£75 compensation for communication issues and delays. That was back in January 2022. 
But there had been further delays beyond that, so the investigator recommended an 
additional amount of £125.
esure didnt agree with that, they justified the further delays by saying theyd resulted from 
some named storms early in 2022. I pointed out to esure that if the claim had been handled 
promptly in the first instance then the storms shouldnt have affected it. But they asked for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the first thing to say is that esure accepts they fell short of what Mrs K was entitled to 
expect in the handling of her claim. In view of that, the only issue for me to decide is that of 
fair compensation.
esure maintains that the £75 compensation offered at the beginning of January 2022 is 
reasonable. But Mrs K has provided emails which show there were further delays beyond 
that. And while esure appears to accept that, by explaining it was down to the storms, they 
dont believe any further compensation is due.
As I explained to esure, if the claim had been dealt with efficiently in the first place then I 
dont think the storms would have been a factor. So, I dont think its reasonable to use that 
as an excuse for not paying further compensation for the further delays.
Overall, esure accepts there have been failings. In my view, the further £125 compensation 
recommended is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to pay a 
total of £200 compensation to Mrs K and Mr K, less any amounts already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman