DRN-3211035
The complaint
Mr F has complained that he lost the benefit of his tax-free personal allowance because St 
Jamess Place UK plc (SJP) made an income payment in the wrong tax year.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr F asked SJP for a withdrawal from the tax-free cash element of his 
pension. He also asked SJP for a payment to use his tax-free personal allowance for the tax 
year 2018/19.
The tax-free cash payment was made before the end of the 2018/19 tax year. But the other 
payment wasnt made until after 6 April 2019. Mr F said the delayed payment meant hed 
lost the benefit of the personal allowance for the tax year 2018/19.
SJP said Mr Fs tax code meant he didnt have a personal allowance. So even if it had made 
the payment before the end of the 2018/19 tax year, Mr F would have had to pay the same 
amount of tax. SJP accepted there had been some inconvenience caused by its delay, and 
paid Mr F £150. But it didnt consider it had caused any further financial loss, so it wasnt 
willing to pay the additional compensation Mr F was seeking.
Mr F wasnt happy with SJPs response and referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
SJP had made the payment using the tax code supplied by HMRC. The investigator 
considered Mr F would have to take up the matter with HMRC if he considered the tax code 
was wrong, or he was due a rebate.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr F had suffered any financial loss, so he didnt 
consider SJP needed to compensate Mr F for the tax hed paid. He was also satisfied that 
the £150 paid for inconvenience was fair. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said the delayed payment meant he 
couldnt claim a rebate for the overpaid tax. Mr F asked for his complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
The case was looked at initially by a different ombudsman. She issued her provisional 
decision, in which she said that she thought the complaint should be upheld. Her reasoning 
is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr Fs tax code meant that when the payment was made he didnt have a tax-free personal 
allowance and was taxed at 40%. I understand that Mr Fs tax code has now been corrected.
When Mr F asked SJP to make the income payment, he made it clear that this was to utilise 
his tax-free personal allowance for the 2018/19 tax year. So I think if hed known that his tax 
code prevented him from doing this, he wouldve taken steps to correct the matter with 
HMRC as soon as possible. This is, in fact, what happened and as Ive said above Mr Fs 
code has now been corrected.
If Mr Fs income payment had been made in the 2018/19 tax year, on balance Im satisfied 
he wouldve been able to claim a rebate for that year once the code had been corrected. His 
tax-free personal allowance wouldve also been available for the tax year 2019/20.
But pension tax rules mean HMRC cannot treat the delayed payment as made in the tax 
year 2018/19. Which means Mr F has lost the opportunity to claim the rebate for that year. 
SJP has accepted it made the payment later than it shouldve done. Im assuming that Mr F 
intended to capitalise on any tax free allowance through an additional pension payment in 
the tax year which followed the late payment  2020/21. If he didnt, then there would be no 
loss to him. So in response to this provisional decision, Mr F should confirm, with evidence, 
that this was indeed the case. 
On the assumption that Mr F did, Im satisfied that SJP should reimburse Mr F for the tax 
hes unable to reclaim from HMRC for the tax year 2018/19. This is because, if Mr F 
continues to take pension payments, then he will now effectively always one year behind in 
terms of being able to capitalise on his tax free allowance. SJP should also pay annual 
interest of 8% simple on that amount from the date of payment to the date on which Mr F 
accepts any final decision. This is in addition to the £150 SJP has paid for the inconvenience 
caused by its delay.
SJP didnt submit any further comment in response to that provisional decision, and Mr F 
said he accepted the provisional findings.
However, the investigator reiterated that the previous ombudsman had requested evidence 
from Mr F that he had taken a pension payment in the 2020/21 tax year, and therefore 
capitalised on his tax free allowance for that year.
Mr F requested evidence of this from SJP, who supplied it directly to this service. The 
information provided confirmed that Mr F had taken pension income of approximately 
£37,000 and had paid tax on this of around £5,000.
The case was reassigned to me, and I set out my own provisional conclusions on the matter 
in a decision dated 8 November 2021, as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the findings of the previous ombudsman. Had the pension 
payment been made when it should have been, Mr F would have been able to capitalise on 
his tax fee allowance for the 2018/19 tax year once the tax code had been corrected. This 
tax saving has been irrevocably lost, and Mr F (through SJP) has provided evidence that he 
had also used his tax free allowance in the tax year for 2020/21. I think its reasonable to 
assume that he will continue to do so by way of future pension payments.
As such, my view is aligned with that of the previous ombudsman, in that SJP should 
reimburse Mr F the tax that he would have been able to reclaim for the 2018/19 tax year 
through utilising his tax free allowance, had the payment been made on time. And that interest at the rate of 8% simple should be applied from the date that Mr F would reasonably 
have been able to reclaim the tax which would have been paid on a notional pension 
payment in the 2018/19 tax year, up to the date of settlement.
Id appreciate Mr Fs input, perhaps via his accountant, as to when he corrected the tax 
code, and a reasonable timeframe for when the rebate would have been made, and how 
much this would have been. SJP can then use this information for the compensation 
payment and interest calculation.
Mr F replied with the following information from his accountant:
It had informed HMRC that the tax code for Mr F was incorrect in May 2020, once the 
self-assessment tax return for 2019/20 had been filed. 
As the 2018/19 payment was made in the 2019/20 tax year, the excess tax paid 
would have prompted it to contact HMRC sooner.
Had the payment been made correctly to Mr F and the 2018/19 tax return filed, the 
rebate would have been £4,740 as there would have been no tax due. 
HMRC provide a timescale of up to eight weeks for rebates to be issued.
SJP made no further comment on either my provisional findings or the information provided 
by Mr Fs accountant.
Mr Fs accountant has subsequently confirmed that it informed HMRC of the wrong tax code 
on 13 May 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings remain the same as those set out in the provisional decision. 
Putting things right
On the basis that Mr Fs accountant has said that they corrected the tax code on 13 May 
2020 once theyd submitted the tax return for the 2019/20 tax year, it seems reasonable that, 
if a rebate could have been received for 2018/19 tax year, the tax code for that year would 
instead have been corrected one year earlier - on 13 May 2019.
And so, given the maximum eight weeks which the accountant has said it would then take 
for the rebate to be issued, SJP should pay to Mr F £4,740, with the addition of 8% pa 
simple interest from 8 July 2019 to the date of payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct St James's Place UK plc to make 
payment to Mr F as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 Philip Miller
Ombudsman