DRN-2225453
The complaint
Mrs B says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for her mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995. It was paid for with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.
I sent Mrs B and Nationwide a provisional decision on 21 September 2020, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to Mrs B, which means it didnt have to check it was 
right for her. But it did have to give her information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading, so that she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
Neither side still has the original documents from the sale, since it was so long ago. But that 
means I cant be satisfied that Nationwide gave Mrs B clear enough information about the 
policys cost and benefits at the point of sale. And I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs B, 
because shes explained that her employer gave her a particularly generous sick pay 
entitlement, which meant she could manage without PPI for long enough to not really need 
it. And the policy was not cheap given the level of benefit it provided, so had Mrs B been 
given proper information about it then I dont think shed have considered it good value for 
money in her particular situation.
Understandably, because of the time thats passed, Mrs B doesnt still have documents to 
show her sick pay entitlement. But then, Nationwide doesnt have any documentary 
evidence to show that it even offered Mrs B a fair choice about buying PPI in the first place, 
and Ive given it the benefit of the doubt there. If I consider the sale to have been too long 
ago for me to expect Nationwide to produce documents showing Mrs Bs choice, then its 
only fair that I apply the same standard to both sides.
Considering Mrs Bs role, industry, age, and length of service, what shes told us does not 
seem particularly unreasonable or unlikely. Shes been consistent about her sickness 
entitlement, and Ive not got a good reason to disbelieve her. So I think its most likely that 
Mrs B didnt need the PPI in this particular case.
I dont think Mrs B wouldve bought the policy if Nationwide had given her enough 
information about it. So it follows that I think its most likely that Mrs B has lost out because 
of the flaws in this sale.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
19 October 2020. Nationwide sent further arguments, which Ill go through below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide says it would have given Mrs B a leaflet which explained the policys cost and 
benefits. But it has not provided any substantive documents from her sale to show that it 
gave her such a leaflet, nor that it drew her attention to it, nor that the leaflet made her 
particular policys cost and benefit clear. So this assertion appears to be almost completely 
unfounded.
Nationwide also says it wouldve told Mrs B the policys cost at each annual review. But the 
onus was on Nationwide to give her proper information at the time of the sale, and not a year 
or more after the fact.
Similarly, Nationwide argued that while Mrs Bs policy offered poor value for money at the 
time of the sale, it offered a greater benefit once her mortgage switched to its variable rate 
after a year, and it also happened to go down in price. Again, I dont think this is relevant as 
the key factor here was whether the policy offered good value for money at the point of sale. 
And there was always the chance shed change mortgage once her deal ran out, or that the 
variable rate would be different, and so on. Nationwide further pointed out that this particular 
policy could only be taken out within a few months of the mortgage, and not, say, after a 
year. But Mrs B could have alternatively taken out cover elsewhere, or no cover at all  not 
least as, per my provisional decision, it seems she could have probably managed without 
PPI for long enough to not really need it in her case.
Lastly, Nationwide argued that since Mrs B agreed to take out the PPI, she must have 
believed it to be of value. But Nationwide doesnt actually have any evidence which shows 
that Mrs B agreed to the PPI here, nor that it even offered her a fair choice in the first place.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont 
think Mrs B wouldve bought the policy if Nationwide had given her clear enough information 
about it.
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society needs to put Mrs B in the position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Nationwide should:
Pay Mrs B back the amount she paid each month for the PPI, less anything it has 
already refunded (so that it does not refund the same amounts twice over).
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.   HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must give 
Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. Mrs B can claim back the 
tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint, and direct Nationwide Building Society to put things right in the 
way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman