DRN-2655129
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) declined a claim made under a 
commercial insurance policy when water entered the cellar of a property she owned.
  
What happened
Ms G owned a rental property. Water was found in the cellar at the property, so Ms G 
contacted Allianz to make a claim. Allianz investigated it as an escape of water. It declined 
the claim as there was no leak present when it carried out an inspection and there were 
potential issues with the damp proof course. 
Ms G complained to Allianz. Allianz upheld the complaint on the basis that Ms Gs 
expectations had not been met. But it maintained its decision to decline the claim as it wasn't 
clear that the damage was caused by an insured peril. Allianz said it was aware that the 
local water company was continuing to investigate the source of the leak and that it would 
await the final outcome of the water companys investigations.
Ms G complained to this service and also continued to try and identify the source of the 
water entering the cellar. After some time, the local water company found a leak from a 
supply pipe on the neighbours land and the pipe was then repaired. Ms G contacted her 
neighbours insurer, but it said it wasnt liable for the leak as the neighbours hadnt been 
aware of the leak or been negligent.
Our investigator contacted Allianz and asked it to consider the water companys findings. 
Allianz didn't reply. So our investigator considered the complaint and upheld it. She said she 
thought the claim should be considered under the accidental damage part of the policy, that 
relevant databases should be amended to show this as the cause and that Allianz should 
ensure it charged the correct excess.
Allianz didnt reply, so the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 25 January 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When Allianz first investigated the claim, I think it was reasonable that it declined it because 
it wasnt clear what the source of the water was that had entered the cellar and whether 
there was a valid claim.
I can see that it took a few months, and the local water company carrying out extensive 
works, for a significant leak then to be found on a neighbours land. Ive looked at whether I 
think that leak was the likely cause of the water entering Ms Gs cellar. 
During the water companys investigations, it identified that some of the water present in the 
cellar was mains water. The water company later found the leak from the neighbours supply 
pipe, which was then repaired. It provided a report to Ms G about the investigations that had 
taken place and the leak itself. This said:
Water in the cellar is mains water leak located in the neighbour's garden. Repair work 
arranged.

Excavated at the boundary and point of entry then relayed the lead pipe which was in poor 
condition. Found leak to be internal in the cavity wall which was repaired by [the neighbours] 
plumber.
On that basis, Im satisfied that the source of the leak was identified as coming from a pipe 
on the neighbours property.
So, Ive looked at whether this was covered by Ms Gs policy. Im aware that the policy 
included accidental damage cover, but I dont think the claim should be covered under that 
section. The policy only offered cover for accidental damage to items such as fixed glass or 
the repair of pipes for which the policyholder was legally responsible. So that didnt apply to 
this claim.
However, in my view, I think this should be considered under the flood part of the policy. The 
policy document doesnt define what a flood is, but it would normally be considered to be 
when water builds up and enters a property. Given the significant amount of water that 
leaked from the supply pipe, I think that is what happened here. 
The policy document also said
This insurance excludes claims  from: 

c) flood resulting from storm or any other peril other than escape of water from fixed water 
tanks, apparatus or pipes.
So, as the leak was from a pipe, in my view, the policy does cover what happened in Ms Gs 
case.
Ive noted that in Allianzs surveyor report that it said Ms Gs tenant told him that water 
entered the cellar each time it rained. Ms G said that the tenant had told her that they never 
went in the cellar and so didnt know if water entered it when it rained. So Ive also thought 
about this. Having done so, I dont think this over-rides consideration of this claim as a flood 
as there is clear evidence of mains water entering the cellar and what the source of this was.
Im aware Ms G has said that if Allianzs surveyor had more thoroughly carried out the leak 
detection that the source of the leak would have been found sooner. However, I dont think it 
was Allianzs responsibility to continue to investigate until it found a leak. It is for a 
policyholder to show that they have a valid claim. Although an insurer will often send a 
surveyor as part of that process, so long as they carry out an appropriate investigation, they 
can decline the claim. Having read the surveyors findings, I think the surveyors 
investigation and findings were reasonable. He looked at a range of potential sources for the 
water entering the basement, including evidence of a leak within the property, and explained 
why he reached the conclusion that he did. I dont think the surveyor then needed to keep 
searching for a leak. 
I also note that the water company had to carry out extensive excavations before it found the 
leak on a neighbours land. In my view, it was reasonable for Allianz to expect the water 
company to have completed its investigation into whether there was a leak and for any leak 
to be repaired. Im aware that it required considerable effort from Ms G to find out how water 
was entering the cellar, but I dont think it would be fair for me to say that this was down to 
the actions of Allianz. Im also aware that Ms G has said that she incurred costs as part of dealing with the water 
damage, such as a higher electricity bill due to the drying process and loss of rent because 
the tenants moved out. This would need to be looked at by Allianz as part of considering the 
claim. 
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 24 February 2021.
Ms G responded and said Allianz didnt reply to her, which had added many months delay to 
dealing with her claim. Ms G asked about compensation and also about how the claim would 
now proceed.
Allianz accepted my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive no reason to depart from my provisional decision. I uphold this 
complaint.
I did consider whether to say Allianz should pay Ms G compensation when I was making my 
provisional decision. On balance, I decided not to do so. This was because I think there were 
a range of factors that meant this claim took longer than would normally be expected, a 
number of which were outside of Allianzs control. 
Im aware that Allianz should have looked at Ms Gs report, but even if it had done so, I cant 
say with any certainty that it would then have accepted the claim. Allianz should have replied 
to our investigator, but even if it had, it didnt have to accept her view. So, the process of 
reaching a conclusion on the claim might still have ended up in the same position as we are 
in now, which is that an ombudsman had to issue a decision. This isnt to ignore or 
underestimate the impact on Ms G, as Im very much aware of the effort and patience that 
has been required of her. But, taking everything into account, I decided not to say Allianz 
should pay compensation. 
Ms G will need to discuss with Allianz how the claim will proceed. I understand that Allianz 
has already taken steps to now progress the claim.
  
Putting things right
As a result, Allianz should consider the claim under the flood part of Ms Gs policy.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Allianz Insurance Plc to consider the claim under the flood 
part of Ms Gs policy.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman