DRN-2807170
The complaint
Mr P complains that a predecessor company of Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited sold him 
three long-term savings plans that were unsuitable. 
What happened
Mr P started a savings programme with Sanlam in March 1989 when he was aged 22. His 
first plan was an endowment savings plan that had a monthly premium of £30.00, payable 
until 2031, and £11,340 life cover. 
The second policy was taken out later the same year. This was an endowment savings plan 
with a monthly premium of £30.00, payable until 2030, and life cover of £11,070.
The third policy was taken out in June 1991. This was an endowment savings plan with a 
monthly premium of £25.00, payable until 2031, and life cover of £9,000.
Mr P stopped paying these policies in 2003 and surrendered all three in 2015.
In 2020, Mr P complained to Sanlam that the polices were unsuitable and had therefore 
been mis-sold. A claims management company is representing Mr P in his complaint. Mr P 
said that he wasnt prepared to take any risk with his savings and didnt understand the risk 
associated with the policy as he had no investment experience. He said he had life cover in 
place and there was no requirement for the life cover the policy provided and added that the 
policy was inflexible and other more suitable options were available.
Sanlam didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. They said there was nothing to suggest Mr P 
couldnt afford the policies and he wanted to invest in a qualifying savings programme. 
Mr P didnt agree with Sanlam and brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into things for him. Our investigator thought that Mr P was likely to have 
had some knowledge of investment risk because of his occupation as a trainee foreign 
exchange dealer. And in 1993, Mr P asked for his funds to be split between a managed fund, 
and income fund and an international equity fund. However, our investigator thought that the 
policies were unsuitable because of their long-term nature and said the inclusive life cover 
wasnt required by Mr P and the cost of this likely adversely affected the growth of the 
investments.
Our investigator thought Sanlam should fairly compensate Mr P and put him back in the 
position he wouldve been in had he not been given unsuitable advice. Our investigator said 
its likely Mr P was willing to take some investment risk and thought that an appropriate 
benchmark fund should be used in calculating any remedy due. To put things right our 
investigator said Sanlam should compare the performance of each of Mr P's investments 
with that of the benchmark fund and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual 
value of the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. Interest should also be paid on any loss from the end date of the policies to the 
date of settlement. Sanlam should provide the details of the calculation to Mr P in a clear, 
simple format.
Sanlam didnt accept the thoughts of our investigator. They said its clear that when Mr P 
had a pay rise he wanted to increase his investments in their qualifying savings programme. 
They add that this clearly indicates he understood the risks involved in taking up these 
policies and asked that an ombudsman decides the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sanlam have told me that Mr P could afford the policies when he took them out and say that 
he paid the premiums until 2003. Mr P hasnt complained that he couldnt afford the policies. 
The crux of his complaint is that the policies were unsuitable, and although Im sure Sanlam 
will be disappointed, Ive decided they were. I will now explain why.
The client fact-file from the initial sale in 1989 shows that Mr Ps ambition was to buy a flat or 
house, and the accompanying hand-drawn documents highlight one of Mr Ps requirements 
was flexibility. The same document records Mr P was a trainee foreign exchange dealer and 
that he wanted to start saving for the medium term. It also recorded Mr P was single, had no 
dependents or mortgage, and that he held no emergency funds. Later the same year a 
further fact-file records Mr P wanted to invest £30.00 into another policy for medium term 
savings. 
When Mr P was sold a further policy in 1991, the fact-file records Mr P wanted to invest a 
further £25.00 per month in the same savings programme. No further details were recorded 
of Mr Ps status at the time, but the application form confirms Mr P was still single at this 
time.
Risk
Ive seen no evidence that Sanlam discussed investment risk with Mr P. The only reference 
to the sort of savings plan Mr P wanted is contained within a handwritten document that was 
likely completed prior to the sale of the first policy. This highlighted Mr P wanted growth that 
was better than a building society, security and flexibility.
Although Mr P has complained he wasnt prepared to take any risk with his savings he did 
want savings with a better growth potential than a building society, which persuades me 
there may have been some appetite for risk. There are also two other factors that Im 
persuaded I should give weight to; Mr P was a trainee foreign exchange dealer when the 
initial policy was taken out, and he later elected to switch his investments across a relatively 
broad spread of funds. I consider these factors add weight to the view Mr P wouldve had 
some understanding of risk at the time he took the plans out. 
Although I accept I cant be certain Mr P wouldve invested differently if there had been a 
robust discussion about investment risk, Im satisfied the remedy proposed by our 
investigator is broadly fair and reasonable. It recognises that its likely Mr P wouldve taken 
some risk, but also takes into account that Sanlam hasnt been able to show me they 
assessed what level of risk this would be at the time.
Suitability
The first two fact-files explain Mr P was looking for medium term savings. They also reflect 
Mr P was single with no immediate need for life cover and wanted his savings to be flexible. 
The policy literature suggests the savings programme was designed for regular savings over 
a long term. The sales literature says the programme was designed to grow steadily with the optimum benefit and worth being realised after about 25 years. Mr Ps plans were set-up so 
that the monthly contributions would be payable until 2030 and 2031.
The policies included life cover paid for by the cancellation of units each month. However, at 
the time Mr P took out all three of the policies, he had no financial dependants and there was 
no agreed need for life cover. This doesnt suggest a savings vehicle with unwanted life 
cover, paid monthly by deduction from the savings premium, was suitable to meet Mr Ps 
needs. 
These policies didnt satisfy Mr Ps requirement for flexibility. The specific goals he 
highlighted seem to fall within the short and medium term, rather than the long term. These 
policies had an optimum term of about 25 years and the additional cost of unwanted life 
cover wouldve reduced the return on the investments Mr P held within the policies. I 
therefore dont consider these policies were suitable for Mr P.  
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr P 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he hadnt been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mr P wouldve invested differently. It isnt possible to say precisely what 
he wouldve done differently. But I am satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr P fairly Sanlam must:
 Compare the performance of Mr P's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Sanlam should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Savings 
policy 
1 surrenderedFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Savings 
policy 
2 surrenderedFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlementSavings 
policy 
3 surrenderedFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
 Mr P wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
 Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr P's circumstances and risk attitude.
 The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My decision is that Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay 
the amount as set out above.
Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr P in a 
clear, simple format.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman