DRN-3081717
The complaint
Mr U complained about how Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska) dealt with a claim 
under a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr U contacted Astrenska because water was leaking through the roof of a property he 
rented to tenants. Astrenska sent a contractor. However, the contractor couldnt get access 
to the roof. The contractor also noted that the roof was in poor condition. So, Astrenska told 
Mr U he should make a claim under his buildings insurance or arrange to repair the roof 
privately.
When Mr U complained, Astrenska didnt uphold the complaint. Astrenska said due to the 
condition of the roof, lack of maintenance, extent of repairs needed and lack of access to 
carry out temporary repairs it had no alternative but to recommend that Mr U approach his 
buildings insurers or to carry out the works privately.
So, Mr U complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it 
was reasonable for Astrenska not to carry out a repair due to the damage being the result of 
wear and tear.
As Mr U didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. I will explain why.
Im aware that Mr U has said that both Astrenska and this service havent fully understood 
why his claim should succeed. He has said there were two leaks and that when he first 
spoke to Astrenska it accepted the claim because the claim handler was aware of the 
ongoing storms and because the water leak was next to an electrical point.
Ive listened to the phone call when Mr U first tried to make a claim. The call recording isnt 
always of the highest quality, but based on what I heard, part of the conversation was as 
follows:
Mr U: Ive got a leak, a lot of water coming through the ceiling in a babys bedroom
Claim handler: Whats above the ceiling?
Mr U: Just a roof as far as Im aware.
Claim handler: So, its just the weather?
Mr U: Possibly yes. Im not sure.
The call handler also checked there wasnt a boiler or water tank above the ceiling.  Mr U 
confirmed there wasnt. The call handler also asked whether the leak had affected the 
electrics and Mr U said no, but that there was a lot of water. The claim handler said if water 
did get into the electrics that Mr U should let Astrenska know so it could isolate the electrics. 
So, based on what I heard, Mr U mentioned one leak, which was into a bedroom. I didnt 
hear any discussion of a storm and my understanding of why the claim handler checked 
about the weather was so that the right contractor was sent. If it was due to weather 
conditions, a roofer was most likely needed. Mr U also confirmed there wasnt currently an 
issue with the electrics and he was asked to call back if the electrics needed to be isolated. 
On that basis, Astrenska sent a roofer, which I think was reasonable and in line with what Mr 
U had described.
Ive also looked at what the roofer did while he was at the property. Mr U said his tenant told 
him the roofer had looked at the upstairs ceiling and because he couldnt fit through the loft 
access hatch, he had simply left. The tenant then phoned Mr U, who rushed to the property 
to speak to the roofer. The roofer told Mr U that he couldnt access the roof space because 
the hatch was too small, but that he thought the leak was coming from the front chimney. He 
said the roofer then got out of his van, went across the street and took a photo of the 
chimney.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its in dispute that the hatch was too small for a person to 
fit through. Mr U has said it was possible for someone to fit their head through the loft hatch 
and that when he got roofers out to assess the damage they did this. But, even if the roofer 
didnt carry out any assessment through the roof hatch, he did assess the condition of the 
roof and Ive seen external photos of it and a photo of damage to the bedroom ceiling, as 
well as a range of other photos. Im aware that Mr U has also said the roofer didnt go on the 
roof, but there isnt a requirement for a roof to be assessed only at roof level and it is fairly 
common for this to happen from the ground. I think the assessment carried out was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive also looked at what the roofer found. The photos showed some lifted tiles and, in the 
bedroom, some water staining to the ceiling around the chimney breast and also closer to 
the window. The contractor also said:
Leak is coming through the uplifted tiles and the flashing around the chimney, as you can 
see the tiles surrounding the chimney are all lifted and the flash band is poor. 
The only way to access this from the outside would be with a scaffold. 
Unfortunately we cant temporary fix due to the extent of the damage, the only thing we could 
do is replace the uplifted tiles and re-felt underneath, and replace the flash band around the 
chimney. 
Roof is in poor condition, lack of maintenance is why this has happened.
I also note that the policy contains a specific exclusion for wear and tear. Based on the 
assessment carried out by the roofer, I think it was reasonable for Astrenska to decline the 
claim.
Ive also looked at whether the information Mr U provided to this service meant that 
Astrenska should have dealt with the claim. Mr U provided photos that showed a view of the 
roof through the roof hatch. This showed a hole towards the top of the rear slope of the roof. 
Mr U also provided a report from a builder that said:I can confirm that I visited  in early February 2021 to inspect a leak inside one of first 
floor bedrooms and the adjoining Hallway. We met with the Landlord there who informed us 
that a roofing contractor had told him that the issue was being caused by flashing and slates 
around the front elevation chimney. However, upon inspection we found the flashing and 
tiles around the chimney to be in fairly decent condition and instead identified the issue as 
being caused by a large hole in the rear elevation roof pitch due to damaged and slipped 
slates. It is my assessment that these slates were damaged by heavy winds due to storms at 
that time. We had to wait for some of the heavier winds to subside before we could access 
the roof.
When our investigator asked Astrenska to consider Mr Us additional evidence it said:
Speaking as an insurance building surveyor, I disagree the damage is caused to the front 
bedroom by a hole in the rear elevation roof, if there was such an issue the water would 
follow gravity and run downhill affecting the rear rooms not the ceiling at the front. The 
photos attached are of the front elevation above the affected bedroom and clearly show 
raised tiles and slipped tiles in the area around the chimney, staining Internally around the 
chimney breast further reinforces this. Unfortunately, the area was too large to carry out an 
emergency repair on and the contractor advised a full repair needs to be conducted which 
the policy would not cover.
I think Astrenska considered Mr Us additional evidence and that it was reasonable for it to 
continue to decline the claim. I also note that the builders visit seemed to take place about 
two months after Mr U made his claim and that it refers to damage in the hallway that Mr U 
didnt raise as part of his claim. So, Im not persuaded this shows what the issue was, or the 
extent of the damage, at the time of the claim.
In summary, I think Astrenska sent a roofer to carry out a home emergency repair based on 
the information provided by Mr U at the time he made the claim. The roofer carried out an 
assessment and, having done so, Astrenska declined the claim on the basis of wear and 
tear and it not being possible to carry out a temporary repair. Having considered all of the 
evidence provided by Mr U and Astrenskas assessment at the time of the claim and since, I 
think it was reasonable for Astrenska to decline the claim and I dont require it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman