DRN-4264849
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont provide details of how a fraudster accessed 
his bank account. 
What happened
Mr G said that someone accessed his bank account via telephone banking and fraudulently 
transferred £850 from his account and changed his date of birth. Although they couldn't 
match his voice password they were able to answer other security questions. Mr G changed 
the telephone password and asked HSBC which of his personal details was compromised. 
HSBC immediately refunded Mr Gs loss, but said it couldnt tell him which security questions 
were answered correctly, only that they were personal and/or account details. Mr G 
complained that there was no justification for this. He said if he knew he would insist HSBC 
change those details that it requests.
HSBC told us that by explaining to a customer how a fraudster got through the security 
would be outside of its security process which is formulated in compliance with legislation on 
fraud. HSBC said to comply with Mr Gs request would cause it to go into detail about its 
security procedures, and this is not something it is prepared to do.
Mr G said hes now worried that his account could be accessed again and further defrauded. 
He is dissatisfied with HSBCs response and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said we cant ask 
HSBC to disclose the information Mr G requests and it hadnt made any errors. She advised 
Mr G to speak to Action Fraud.
Mr G was dissatisfied with this response as his request concerned information he had given 
to HSBC himself, and his complaint has been referred to me as ombudsman to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G wants to know which security questions the fraudster got right to get through HSBCs 
security, so that he can change the questions to prevent this happening again. HSBC says it 
cannot advise customers of its specific security questions. 
I sympathise with Mr G for having his bank account accessed by a fraudster as its clear this 
person had some knowledge of his personal information. I can understand the worry and 
uncertainty this has caused him. Im pleased HSBC immediately refunded the amount stolen 
and hopefully this gives him some reassurance that hes not going to be defrauded in this 
way. 
I am satisfied that HSBC is required to keep security sensitive information confidential. In 
order for HSBC to explain how the individual was able to pass security on Mr Gs account, 
theyd have to go into detail about its internal security procedures and its approach to 
requesting information. It is not prepared to release this information and I understand the 
reasons for this.
From what I have seen, HSBC has acted in accordance with its procedures and its 
requirement not to disclose anything concerning those procedures. And so I think it has 
treated Mr G as it would any other customer in his circumstances, and this is fair and 
reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman