DRN-4183903
The complaint
Ms P complains about how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) dealt with 
following financial problems.
What happened
Ms P says AESEL hasnt dealt appropriately or sympathetically her when she told it about 
her financial difficulties. She says she was out of the United Kingdom (UK) with no income 
whilst dealing with a divorce. Ms P says she told AESEL in August 2022 about those issues, 
but it didnt provide breathing space or help her. She says she later found out a default had 
been registered and letters were sent to her UK address. Ms P would like an investigation 
into what took place and appropriate compensation.
AESEL says it offered Ms P a debt management plan, but she didnt accept it. It says it could 
have offered breathing space in August 2022 but did so in September 2022. AESEL has 
paid £100 compensation for that. It says there were very little options it could offer Ms P 
when she made clear she had no income, and the plan would have avoided further charges.
Ms P brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Ms P would have agreed to AESELs terms and conditions about missed payments 
and that it did try and help her by offering the debt plan. The investigator thought breathing 
space could have been offered in August 2022 but thought the compensation offer 
appropriate. The investigator didnt think Ms P had provided AESEL with an alternative 
address.
Ms P doesnt accept that view and in summary says AESEL didnt call her whilst abroad and 
didnt treat her fairly. She says £100 compensation is not a deterrent to AESEL.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I make 
clear to Ms P that we are not AESELs regulator and so its not our role to punish it as Ms P 
suggests when she says the compensation offer is not a deterrent.
Any lender should treat a customer in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. I 
can see that Ms P told AESEL about such financial difficulties in August 2022 and accept 
that as she was not living in the UK that made communication difficult.
I have looked carefully at what Ms P told AESEL and what it offered to do to assist her. Im 
satisfied Ms P made clear that she couldnt make required monthly repayments and that her 
account balance was offer £6,000. Im also satisfied that AESEL fairly offered to put Ms P on 
a debt management plan which would have stopped interest and charges. I can see from 
online conversations that Ms P was reluctant to do so and made clear she didnt want to go 
on such a plan which was offered on a number of occasions.
So, Im satisfied that AESEL did act positively and sympathetically to Ms P and her position. 
Im satisfied that it tried to help Ms P by offering a plan which would have stopped interest as 
well as charges. And that it also fairly directed Ms P to a debt organisation that could have 
assisted her. I think its clear that Ms P didnt want to go on such a plan, but I cant see what 
else AESEL could have done to assist Ms P. I also dont think Ms P has made clear what 
she thinks AESEL could have done practically to help her when she made clear she had no 
income or any likely short-term change in that position.
I appreciate that AESEL could have offered a breathing space in August 2022 before doing 
so in September 2022. I can see AESEL has apologised for that mistake and offered what I 
think is a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £100. I dont think that omission was 
significant or justifies further compensation and dont think it would have made any longer-
term difference as its clear Ms P was unable to make required repayments.
I also appreciate Ms P says AESEL has not considered her circumstances and wrote to her 
at her UK address. I have made clear that Im satisfied AESEL did try and help Ms P and 
cant see any other option it could have given her. I also think AESEL was obliged to send 
Ms P regulatory letters about the default and those letters would have to be sent to Ms Ps 
registered address. I cant see any evidence Ms P updated AESEL with a new address and 
think she ought to have realised that, as she hadnt made required payments or agreed a 
repayment plan, such letters were inevitable.
Overall, Im satisfied AESEL tried to offer support to Ms P and cant see what else it could 
have done in circumstances where Ms P made clear she didnt want to agree to a debt plan. 
I appreciate Ms P would have liked AESEL to have called her whilst abroad, but Im satisfied 
Its up to it to decide how it communicates with customers in these circumstances. And in 
any event, I have made clear it did offer Ms P support and options. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman