DRN-1440224
 
Complaint
Ms S complains that Barclays Bank Plc, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold her a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Ms S took out a credit card in October 2003. She was sold the PPI some two months later - 
in December 2003 - in connection with this card during a phone call.
The PPI cost 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance and would have paid 10% of 
the outstanding balance (at the start of her claim) for up to 12 months if Ms S was off work 
sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Ss complaint should be upheld. Ms S didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint.
First of all Ive considered whether Ms S would have been eligible for the policy. Ms S 
appears to equate eligibility with a need or want for the policy. But when I say eligibility I 
mean whether Ms S met the eligibility criteria as set out in the policy document - because if 
she didnt meet the criteria then this would mean that Ms S couldnt make a claim under the 
policy and as such the policy would have been mis-sold.  However, having considered the 
eligibility criteria, Im satisfied Ms S was eligible and so the policy wasnt mis-sold on this 
ground. I have next gone on to consider the other areas of the sale which could potentially 
have resulted in a mis-sale.
Barclays had to make it clear to Ms S that the policy was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Ms S says she never wanted PPI and says she 
was definitely pressured into taking PPI. She says she had sufficient existing repayment 
means and so would not have agreed to PPI.
Barclays no longer have a call recording of the sale. This is understandable given the length 
of time since the sale so I cant hold it against them that they no longer have this evidence. 
But what it does mean is that I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive 
thought carefully about what Ms S and Barclays have told us and looked at the documents 
relevant to the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened.Barclays have provided us with a copy of the call script that the representative would have 
used at the time of the sale. This call script shows that the representative would have been 
instructed to ask Ms S for her consent in order for the policy to be applied to her account. I 
also note that the policy was sold two months after the card had been taken out so I think it 
would have been clear that the policy was optional. 
I understand Ms S is adamant she wouldnt have agreed to PPI without being pressured or 
that, as she says, its possible the PPI was applied without her consent. However, Ms S 
doesnt appear to have a specific recollection of the sale itself. Of course again this is 
understandable given the length of time since the sale. But although I appreciate what Ms S 
says about PPI sale tactics and pressured sales  and it is right that these did occur in some 
instances   in the absence of more specific evidence of what actually happened during this 
sale, I cant safely conclude, in light of the evidence of optionality and consent I have set out 
above, that on this particular occasion the representative didnt follow the call script or that 
Ms S was pressured into taking PPI out.
So all in all, I think its more likely that Ms S would have been aware the PPI was optional 
and that it was only applied to the account because Ms S chose to take it out. Although I 
appreciate why Ms S may now no longer recall this.
From the sales script, it doesnt appear that Barclays advised Ms S to take PPI. This means 
they didnt have to check that the PPI was suitable for Ms S. So for example, they didnt 
have to check or take into account the existing repayment provisions Ms S has told us about 
- such as her savings and the help she could have received from her parents. 
But Barclays did have to give Ms S clear information so that she could make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take PPI. Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms S 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold 
as I have to go on and consider whether better information would have put her off taking it 
out. 
I have already found that the optional nature of the policy was made clear to Ms S and that I 
think its more likely Ms S chose to take it out despite her existing provisions. So I have to 
look at whether something about the policy - in particular the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions would have meant that knowing more about these at the time of the sale would 
have changed her mind about taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say this 
because:
 
 
Ms S cant remember if she would have been entitled to any employee benefits at the 
time of the sale if she was unable to work or lost her job. But even if she would have 
been entitled to some benefits, the policy would have paid out in addition to these 
benefits and I think likely for a longer period of time. So its unlikely knowing this 
would have put her off the policy.
 
Ms S didnt appear to have been affected by the significant exclusions and 
restrictions in the policy which would have made it difficult for her to make a 
successful claim under the policy. For example, exclusions and restrictions relating to 
pre-existing medical conditions. So again knowing more about these is unlikely to 
have made a difference to her at the time of the sale.
 I havent seen any evidence to suggest the PPI was unaffordable to Ms S at the time 
of the sale. The potential benefit of the policy clearly outweighed its cost and as 
mentioned already, was likely to have lasted longer than any sick pay she may have 
been entitled to, so I dont think knowing more information about the costs in this 
instance would have affected Ms S decision.
 
Ms S could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if she no 
longer wanted or needed it.
 
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Barclays mis-sold Ms S this PPI 
policy. I appreciate Ms S will be disappointed by this outcome but I can only rely on the 
evidence that is available to me. It is of course up to Ms S whether she accepts or rejects my 
decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint against Barclays Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman