DRN-3849488
The complaint
Mr B says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
Mr B took out a 24-month instalment loan for £2,000 on 21 February 2018. The monthly
repayment was £246.12 and the total repayable was £5,906.88
Mr B says the loan was unaffordable and made his financial situation worse. It pushed him 
further into debt and this impacted his mental health. He had to use payday loans to make 
his repayments. If proper checks had been done he would not have been offered the loan.
The adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint. He said ELL completed proportionate checks but 
did not make a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered.
ELL did not respond to this assessment, so the complaint was passed to me to make a final
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when ELL lent to Mr B. Its rules
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged ELL to
lend responsibly. Amongst other things, ELL was required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Mr B could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr B. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr B, and have considered the following questions:
did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Bs loan
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did ELL make a fair lending decision?
did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
ELL asked for some information from Mr B before it approved the loan. It asked for details of 
his income. It asked for copies of his bank statements and a payslip to verify his salary. It 
asked about his housing costs and estimated his other living expenses using national 
statistics. It reviewed his credit file to understand his credit history and existing 
commitments. From these checks combined ELL concluded that Mr B would have
monthly disposable income of £174.49 after taking on this loan and so it was fair to lend.
I think the checks ELL completed were proportionate, but I dont think it reacted 
appropriately to the data it gathered when it made its lending decision. Ill explain why.
ELL used an income figure of £2,022.74 which it says was his average net monthly salary 
plus child benefits. But I can see from his payslip and bank statement that his most recent 
months income was £1,791.91  so significantly lower. I imagine ELL used a year to date 
figure but given the variance (which I think is driven by overtime fluctuations) I think it 
needed to check that the loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr B every month, not just 
in months where he received more overtime pay. Had it considered this I dont think it would 
have concluded Mr B could afford the loan as he did not always have the disposable income 
it had calculated. 
His bank statement already showed signs of financial pressure as he was persistently reliant 
on his overdraft. He was using the loan in part to settle a car finance agreement it seems, 
but he would still be spending a significant proportion of his income to service his other 
debts. And this is frequently an indicator of pending financial difficulties. 
Overall, I think from the information it had ELL ought to have concluded there was a high risk 
the loan would not be sustainably affordable for Mr B.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to lend to Mr B. I havent seen any evidence ELL acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way.
 Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the benefit 
of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have been 
given to him. So he has lost out and ELL needs to put things right.
It should:
Refund all the interest and charges on the loan  so add up the total Mr B repaid and
deduct the sum from the capital amount.
If reworking Mr Bs loan account results in him having effectively made
payments above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Bs loan account results in an outstanding capital balance, ELL 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit files in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr B
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Bs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday
Loans, must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman