DRN-3160796
The complaint
Mr Ns complaint is that, because of delays by The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as 
Platform, he says he was unable to go ahead with porting his mortgage. Mr N repaid the 
mortgage and paid an early repayment charge (ERC) which he is asking Platform to 
reimburse.
What happened
On 1 July 2020 Mr N took out a mortgage with Platform over a 23-year term. The first two 
years of the mortgage were on an introductory rate of 1.94%, expiring on 30 June 2022. The 
mortgage offer states that if the mortgage is repaid before that date, an ERC will be payable.
In December 2020 Mr N contacted Platform to enquire about porting the mortgage onto 
another property. Platform explained that the processing times were between 10 and 
12 weeks from receipt of the application and fees. On 12 February 2021 Mr N asked 
Platform to call him about making an application and was told that this would be done within 
five working days. However, Platform didnt call him until 24 February 2021. 
During that call, Mr N explained that hed agreed a completion date for his sale and 
purchase of 24 May 2021. He didnt think that Platform would be able to complete his porting 
application in time. As a result, Mr N went to another lender and repaid the mortgage to 
Platform, incurring an ERC. 
Mr N complained to Platform, saying that if it had called him back on when it had promised to 
do so, his porting application would have been completed within the timescale and he would 
have been able to complete his purchase by 24 May 2021. Mr N wanted Platform to refund 
the ERC.
Platform acknowledged it should have returned Mr Ns call of 12 February 2021 within five 
working days, but said that the decision to cancel the application was that of Mr N. Platform 
paid Mr N £25 compensation for not returning the call within its specified timescale.
Unhappy with Platforms response, Mr N complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Platform needed to do anything 
further. The investigator though the £25 was fair and reasonable compensation for the delay 
in calling Mr N, and didnt think Platform was required to reimburse the ERC.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He made some further points, which I summarise below.
if Platform had kept to its promise of calling him back within 5 days, the completion date 
of 24 May 2021 could have been met;
Platforms failure to call him back meant that he couldnt meet that date and so he had to 
look for another mortgage lender;
other companies had shorter timelines, even with COVID restrictions and Stamp Duty 
demands;
Platform could have sent the application pack out to him sooner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Mr N has said about other lenders and their timescales. But this complaint is 
about Platform and so I cant take into account what other lenders might or might not do.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr N says that, because Platform didnt call him back within 
five working days of 12 February 2021, he didnt think hed be able to achieve his chosen 
completion date of 24 May 2021 and decided to go to a different lender. 
However, Im not persuaded Platform is responsible for Mr N having to pay the ERC. I agree 
that Platform should have called Mr N back within 5 working days of Friday 12 February 
2021  so by Friday 19 February 2021. There was a delay of a further three working days 
before the call was actually made, on Wednesday, 24 February 2021. It was during this call 
that Mr N decided not to go ahead with his application. 
I agree that Platform is required to compensate Mr N for its poor customer service in not 
calling him back within the required timescale. But I dont agree that Platform should refund 
the ERC. Platform was never given the opportunity to see if the application could be 
expedited in order to meet Mr Ns chosen completion date. Furthermore, if Mr N had 
returned the application pack and fees by 26 February 2021, the application could have 
been completed within Platforms 10-12 week timescale  so between 7 May and 21 May 
2021.
In the circumstances, I can see no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to order 
Platform to reimburse Mr N for the ERC he had to pay when he chose to repay the 
mortgage.
Platform has paid Mr N £25 compensation for the three-day delay in calling him, which I 
think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I do not think Platform needs to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman