DRN-3421890
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her a 
package bank account.
What happened
Mrs H took out an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) with Halifax in November 2010. 
A monthly fee was charged for the account.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mrs Hs complaint about the sale of her URCA but didnt 
think it should be upheld. As Mrs H disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available. 
The URCA came with a range of benefits that included travel insurance, mobile phone 
insurance, home emergency cover, vehicle breakdown cover and a free overdraft facility up 
to £300. 
Mrs H has explained that at the time she was sold the URCA she was told she had to have it 
to have an overdraft facility. Halifax told her about the other benefits but as she did not drive, 
had a low-cost phone and no intention of travelling, she was not able to take advantage of 
them.
I have thought about what Mrs H has told us, but I can see she had held a free account for 
many years before she upgraded to the URCA and regularly made use of her overdraft 
facility. So, I think Mrs H would have known she didnt have to take out the URCA to have an 
overdraft. I also think its unlikely that a Halifax representative would have told Mrs H this 
was the case.  In any event I would need to see strong evidence to support Mrs Hs 
allegation to uphold her complaint for this reason. And I havent seen this.
I also havent seen any evidence to show Halifax made a tailored recommendation to Mrs H 
to take the URCA, so it only had to provide her with enough information so she could decide 
if the URCA was right for her.
Mrs H made regular use of her overdraft before upgrading her account to the URCA and as 
Ive explained above, the URCA came with a free £300 overdraft, which I can see Mrs H 
continued to take advantage of. I think its clear that Mrs H would have found this benefit 
useful to her when she took the URCA considering her circumstances at the time.
While Mrs H says she didnt make use of the other benefits offered under the URCA they 
were available to her if her circumstances were to change, and the mobile phone insurance 
would have covered her device even if it was of a low value.
Overall, I think the URCA was useful to Mrs H, and I dont think she was mis-sold the 
account.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman