DRN-4096144
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV handled a claim made on 
his commercial motor insurance policy. He wants compensation for his loss of use, and its 
delays and errors. 
What happened
Mr Ms van was stolen, and he made a claim to Accelerant. Mr M was unhappy with its 
communication, errors, delays and claim handling. Accelerant apologised for its handling of 
Mr Ms claim. But Mr M remained unhappy. He thoughts its errors and delays had caused 
him losses. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Accelerant 
repeatedly got the policy excess wrong, incorrectly deducted VAT from the settlement and 
incorrectly told Mr M the settlement exceeded the policy limit. But she didnt think Accelerant 
was responsible for Mr Ms loss of use or loss of earnings as it had provided a courtesy van 
in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. And she didnt think Accelerant was 
responsible for any significant avoidable delays in settling the claim before Mr M bought a 
replacement van. 
Mr Ms van was then found, and Accelerant assessed it as a total loss. But the Investigator 
thought Accelerant had caused a delay in then paying Mr M his settlement and Mr M had to 
chase this. She thought Accelerant should pay Mr M £150 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by the earlier errors and this delay. 
Accelerant agreed to do this. But Mr M asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint 
has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its now more than a year since Mr Ms van was stolen. He has helpfully provided us with a 
detailed account of his claim experience. And I can see that this caused him frustration and 
inconvenience in getting things put right. I wont repeat here the timeline of events, as I cant 
see that they were disputed by Accelerant. But I will summarise where I think its service 
could have been better.
Accelerants communication with Mr M could have been better: it misspelled his name; it 
didnt take down his vehicle registration correctly; from what I can see it didnt send items 
to the correct address; and it didnt send Mr Ms settlement to the correct account despite 
him providing the correct details for this. 
Accelerant repeatedly told Mr M, incorrectly, that his policy excess was £1,000 when it 
was £500. And then, when it sent him the final settlement, it still deducted £1,000 so that 
Mr M had to contact it again to have this corrected.
Accelerants engineer incorrectly deducted VAT from the initial settlement offers. Mr M 
had to explain to Accelerant why this was incorrect.
After Accelerant had recovered Mr Ms van from the police, it then took a week for it to 
declare the van to be a total loss and reiterate its settlement offer. I dont think that was 
unreasonable. But it then took over a month for the payment to finally reach Mr M. This 
was partly due to it not updating Mr Ms account details. But it hasnt explained the 
further delay. 
Mr M wanted compensation for his loss of use and loss of earnings caused by not having a 
courtesy van provided sooner and then the delays in the settlement. But I dont think this 
would be fair and reasonable. This is because I can see that the policy provides for a 
courtesy van to be provided for 14 days once the theft claim has been validated. 
Accelerant took two weeks to validate the claim, which I think isnt unreasonable. Mr M then 
had the courtesy van for 14 days, in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. Whilst 
Mr M was awaiting his payment, he had already bought a replacement. I accept that this 
needed repairs and wasnt immediately available to him. But I cant reasonably hold 
Accelerant responsible for this or his loss of earnings as this was Mr Ms choice. 
Mr M said hed bought a cheaper van as he was uncertain of Accelerants final settlement. 
But I can see that he bought the replacement on the same day that Accelerant agreed to pay 
him £10,500. So I cant say that Accelerants errors caused Mr M to buy a cheaper van. 
Considering the points where I think Accelerants service was lacking, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
errors had on the consumer. 
Mr M has received his settlement payment following the valuation of his van. From what I 
can see, this wasnt made entirely in keeping with our approach as Accelerant relied on a 
policy indemnity limit when the policy provides for the vans market value in the case of its 
total loss. But Im satisfied that this hasnt caused Mr M any loss as the final settlement was 
in the range of the valuations provided for the van in the motor trade guides we use. So Ill 
not consider that further here. And I think this settlement has restored Mr Ms position. 
In terms of impact, Mr M has been put to trouble and inconvenience over three months by 
Accelerants errors. These have caused him frustration and stress. And hes had to spend 
time trying to contact Accelerants case handlers to correct its error when this shouldnt be 
needed. Accelerant agreed to pay Mr M £150 compensation for this impact. I think thats fair 
and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for this level of impact. I dont 
require Accelerant to increase this.
Putting things right
I require Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV to pay Mr M £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service, as its already agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV to carry out the redress set out above, as its already 
agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman