DRN-2947914
The complaint
Mr T made a claim under his home emergency policy, he complains that British Gas 
Insurance Ltds engineer damaged his wardrobe whilst repairing his boiler.
What happened
Mr T contacted British Gas in March 2021 to make a claim under his home emergency policy 
as he had no heating or hot water. An engineer attended the same day and fixed the boiler, 
which was found to be the cause of the problem. 
Unfortunately, Mr Ts wardrobe was damaged by the engineer whilst he was carrying out 
repairs. Mr T says he asked the engineer to make a note of the damage. He recalls that the 
engineer said no and also said I know all about you. Mr T complained to British Gas 
about the damage and the engineers comments.
British Gas provided a final response to Mr Ts complaint in May 2021. In this it says it 
arranged for photographs to be taken of the damage and passed the claim to its claims 
handlers. It says it regrets some delays that occurred due to miscommunications in handling 
Mr Ts claim. 
In its letter British Gas confirms an offer had been made to Mr T to settle his claim for 
damage. It says it understood he did not want anyone visiting his property, which is why a 
cash offer was made. It also says it is aware Mr T does not accept its offer.
British Gas says the engineers comments and behaviour were highlighted to his manager. It 
says it cannot comment further on the outcome of what was discussed but assures Mr T the 
matter was treated seriously. The letter says Mr T had been offered £100, which was 
increased to £250 to acknowledge the distress the incident had caused him, which he had 
declined. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. He decided not to uphold the complaint. He felt the 
offer to either repair or provide a cash payment for the damage to the wardrobe was fair. He 
also decided the payment British Gas had sent to Mr T adequately acknowledged the delays 
and upset he had experienced. And felt it had responded appropriately and fairly to the issue 
of inappropriate behaviour. 
Mr T disagreed and requested that an ombudsman review his complaint. It has now been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint, and this is for broadly the same reasons set 
out by our investigator. Let me explain.
Mr T is unhappy with what the engineer said to him during his visit and with the damage 
caused to his wardrobe. I will consider these two points separately below. 
Wardrobe damage
Mr T received a response to his complaint two and a half months after the engineers visit. 
This time frame seems excessive. Mr T contacted British Gas with his concerns at the time 
the damage was caused. I also note from his comments that he alerted the engineer to the 
damage straight away. I think its reasonable to expect the company to have responded 
more quickly. 
The email from British Gas says the damage to the wardrobe can be repaired and that Mr T 
had requested a cash offer. It says it was prepared to offer a payment of £250, which is the 
same as the cost it would incur to arrange the repair. However, the email also says that 
should Mr T prefer, it will still arrange for a repair to be carried out. 
Mr T was not happy with this settlement offer. He asked that the offer be increased. British 
Gas  did not agree. Mr T says when he later asked the company to carry out the repair, it 
was only willing to provide the cash settlement. Our investigator has been in touch with 
British Gas on this point. It has confirmed a repair is now being arranged. 
There is little in the policy terms to confirm what will happen in these circumstances. That 
said its reasonable to expect the company to take responsibility for the damage caused. 
The general principle here is that British Gas should put Mr T back in the position he was in 
before the damage occurred. I note Mr T was not satisfied with the cash settlement offered. 
However, in arranging a repair Im satisfied he is placed back in the position he was in 
before his wardrobe was damaged. I cannot reasonably ask it to do any more to resolve this 
point.
That said, there was a delay in the companys initial response to the claim, and when Mr T 
later decided to accept the offer of a repair. British Gas has provided a total payment of £250 
in compensation. Part of this is to acknowledge its delays. I think this is fair in these 
circumstances.       
Engineers behaviour
Mr T says the engineer caused him distress when he made the comment I know all about 
you. This was after he had noticed the damage to the wardrobe and had raised this with the 
engineer. Mr T says he wants to know what the engineer meant. 
In its final response letter British Gas says the engineers behaviour and the comments 
made, were brought to his managers attention. It explains it cannot divulge the outcome of 
the discussion for data protection reasons but emphasises the matter has been treated 
seriously. 
I was not present at the time Mr T and the engineer spoke and there is no way for me to 
independently verify what was said or understand the intention behind it. However, I dont 
dispute Mr Ts recollection of his conversation with the engineer. I can understand why he 
raised concerns with what the engineer said to him and appreciate why he felt distressed. 
From the detail provided to this service, Im satisfied the engineers behaviour has been 
brought to the attention of the relevant manager, and this was investigated. I agree with 
British Gas in that it would not be appropriate to divulge further detail of the outcome of its 
internal investigation. However, it is appropriate that an apology was offered for the upset Mr 
T felt.   British Gas initially offered Mr T a payment of £100 to acknowledge the distress and 
inconvenience he had been caused. This included a component for the delay in dealing with 
the wardrobe damage. This was later increased to £250 as Mr T did not think this was 
enough. He declined this offer, although I note British Gas issued a cheque. 
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied British Gas did provide poor service and Mr 
T has been caused upset through his dealings with its engineer. But I think it has been fair in 
agreeing to carry out the repair to the wardrobe and in paying £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. So, I cant reasonably ask British Gas to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint about British Gas Insurance Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman