DRN-3260391
The complaint
Miss G has complained Secure Trust Bank plc, trading as Moneyway, didnt carry out 
appropriate checks when giving her credit.    
What happened
In December 2018 Miss G took out a hire purchase agreement with Moneyway for a car. 
This cost £13,295. Miss G paid a deposit of £500 and took out credit for the remainder. The 
hire purchase agreement she signed was for a five year period. Miss G would be paying 
£322.54 a month. Over the full period of the agreement, she would be repaying nearly 
£20,000 for the credit granted.
No payments were ever made. Miss G has told us she only took out this agreement as her 
ex-partner made her do so. He was then unavailable to make any payments. She doesnt 
believe Moneyway carried out the checks they needed to ensure she could make the 
payments. She only took out this agreement after a long stay in hospital.
Moneyway confirmed theyd undertaken the appropriate checks at the time Miss G applied 
for the credit agreement. In the meantime Moneyway had tried to repossess the car and 
found out there was a new registered keeper. No further action was taken to possess the car 
and they expected Miss G to pay for the outstanding amount despite her reporting the car 
stolen.
Miss G brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator believed there was enough evidence to show Miss G could afford the 
agreed borrowing. Moneyway confirmed Miss G had provided them with a salary slip which 
clearly confirmed she had money to afford what had happened. However she was aware of 
Miss Gs medical history and believed Moneyway should treat her sympathetically. She 
asked them to remove all interest payable from the agreement.
Moneyway disagreed with this outcome as did Miss G. Shed provided our service with bank 
statements and she didnt believe she should be held responsible.
This case has been passed to an ombudsman for decision.
I completed a provisional decision on 21 December 2021. Like our investigator I believed 
interest on the agreement should be waived. I also believed Moneyway should do more in 
locating the car and getting value for it rather than expecting Miss G to pay for it fully.
Miss G had nothing further to add and I heard nothing further from Moneyway.
I now have all I need to complete the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Ive reached the outcome I have. As Ive not received 
any objections to my proposal, what follows is similar to the arguments within the provisional 
decision.
The central part of Miss Gs complaint is about unaffordability. These aspects dictate the 
resolution I believe is fair and reasonable. I have taken into account Miss Gs health and 
refer to this below but this is not the main aspect governing my decision. I have seen  as I 
believe has Moneyway  medical evidence confirming Miss Gs health situation. I also 
believe she is not currently working and is in receipt of benefit payments only.
In reviewing the affordability aspects, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and 
guidance for lenders set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. 
Im also aware that our investigator completed a detailed view dated 14 September 2021. I 
wont be repeating all the points made there: only those things that explain the decision Ive 
made.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the affordability circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Moneyway complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss G 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss G could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Moneyway act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Miss G has been disadvantaged in any way by Moneyways actions, Ill go onto 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Moneyway complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss G 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, Moneyway were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Miss Gs ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Miss G could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering his 
specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely she was to repay.
The latter is the risk posed to Moneyway as the lender, or their credit risk but this is not 
necessarily the same as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
The details of the hire purchase agreement Miss G took out with Moneyway are known to all 
parties. The total amount repayable for the agreement was just under £20,000 to be repaid 
over five years. This was therefore a long-term and costly commitment. My starting point is 
that any reasonable and proportionate assessment of affordability ought to have been quite 
thorough.
Moneyway has provided us with details of the checks carried out prior to lending to Miss G. 
These helped them to understand what Miss Gs current credit commitments were and to 
see how she was managing them. Miss G had limited other financial commitments and a 
review of her existing credit showed nothing that caused Moneyway any concern.
They were also aware that Miss G was earning a reasonable annual salary based on a 
salary slip shared with Moneyway that showed a net income of £2,335 a month. The salary 
slip was dated 30 November 2018. Miss G has given us copies of her bank statements for 
some of the period September 2018 to January 2019, but none of them cover the time 
period November to December or show receipt of salary.
Miss G has told us she wasnt working. From her bank statements there doesnt seem to be 
any salary payments for October or December 2018. This leads me to two thoughts: her 
salary slip was slightly doctored and doesnt reflect income in November 2018 or Miss G has 
another current account and hasnt shared those details with us. Miss G has not added 
anything further to clarify this aspect nor has she shared a bank statement that covers the 
period for this salary income.
Overall I cant see Miss G was definitively earning that level of salary and a cursory look at 
her bank statements around this time would have verified this.
Moneyway has said that their checks gave them a reasonable level of confidence that 
Miss G could afford the credit that she was granted. They felt based on the salary slip, the 
fact she lived with her parents and had no dependents meant she had enough financial 
headroom to enter into this financial agreement.
From what Moneyway has said, no further income and expenditure checks nor a review of 
Miss Gs bank statements was carried out. 
Overall, I dont think Moneyway completed reasonable and proportionate checks when 
thinking about the amount of information and supporting evidence they gathered to assess 
Miss Gs creditworthiness. 
Did Moneyway make a fair lending decision?
So having looked at further information  which Moneyway didnt gather  I have some 
concerns about their decision the lending was affordable and sustainable. 
Its clear from what Miss G has told us that she was never anticipating repaying this agreement herself. She believed her ex-partner was going to do so and she was bullied into 
going along with him. Its certainly the case that Miss G has made no payments towards her 
agreement.
In any case what Id have expected Moneyway to have been considering is what ability 
Miss G had to meet any financial shocks or life changes. I can see no evidence they did this.
Miss Gs bank statements dont show she was in receipt of a monthly salary although I 
accept the evidence Moneyway saw a salary slip for November 2018. Its the case that after 
and before that date, Miss G was only receiving benefit payments (which I believe is her 
current situation too).
But the bank statements Ive seen do suggest Miss G was in a financially capable position. 
She ran a balance within her current account of £300 to over £1,200 throughout the period 
Ive seen. 
In reviewing Miss Gs commitments, I dont dispute what Moneyway assessed and I can see 
why they would have felt that expenditure of £335 a month would have been affordable.
Given all of the above, I think Moneyway made a fair lending decision.
Did Moneyway act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive reviewed the information provided to us by Miss G. I see no reason to doubt her 
testimony about being coerced in her personal relationships. 
I also see shes told us about a long spell in hospital in 2018 and note further hospitalisation 
more recently.
Im aware Miss G reported the car stolen to the police in September 2019. She also provided 
these details to Moneyway. 
I have to admit that I do find it surprising that Moneyway has taken no action to repossess 
this car despite them knowing it was stolen, re-registered and where it may well be located.
It seems clear to me Miss G will find it extremely financially difficult to repay £20,000. Ive 
seen nothing which suggests Miss G will start to do this anytime soon.
Putting things right
I require Moneyway take action to re-possess the car which I believe is still legally theirs. 
Any money left in the value of the car should be removed from Miss Gs overall debt.
Our investigator believed it was fair all the interest be removed from the debt as Miss G is 
vulnerable. I agree this seems a fair and reasonable way to resolve this in part. Moneyway 
need to remove all interest payable from the agreement. And once the car has been re-
possessed and assessed, they can then arrange a repayment schedule with Miss G in line 
with her current financial situation.
I asked Moneyway to present alternatives to this if they felt this option would be too difficult. I 
heard nothing further from them. I dont believe Miss G should be paying for the residual 
value of a car that Moneyway seems to have cut their losses on. I dont believe its fair and 
reasonable they abandon the car just because they feel they can ask Miss G to repay the 
debt.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Secure Trust Bank plc, trading as 
Moneyway, to:
Write off all interest payable under the hire purchase agreement in Miss Gs name 
because of her vulnerability;
After re-possessing the car, remove any value obtained at auction from Miss Gs 
outstanding debt; 
Set up an appropriate payment plan based on Miss G;s financial situation; and 
Amend Miss Gs credit record to show the debt that she remains liable for.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman