DRN-3147624
The complaint
Miss O complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) lent irresponsibly when it 
approved her credit card application.
What happened
In 2019 Miss O applied for and was granted a credit card account with NatWest, the card 
had an initial £4000 credit limit. She complained to them in 2021. She said the card had 
placed her in financial hardship and she was now struggling to meet their repayments.
NatWest didnt uphold her complaint. It told Miss O although they may offer a product it was 
a customers decision as to whether it was applied for. It told her the right process had been 
followed here and shed been met the criteria for the product as part of her application. In 
respect of her financial difficulties NatWest offered support and sent information directing her 
to a part of their website dedicated to assisting with this issue for her to review. During our 
investigation NatWest told us the information Miss O provided in the application was used to 
complete an affordability check to determine her Net Free Funds (NFF) and whether they 
could finance the application. It sent us the details Miss O had provided. They said her credit 
score exceeded their cut off and said the assessment showed a NFF sufficient to support the 
credit limit granted here. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the available evidence showed 
NatWest identified accurate information about Miss Os financial circumstances at the time of 
the application in 2019 and this met their lending criteria at the time. He also thought that, as 
NatWest also had access to Miss Os current account statements, detailing her income and 
expenditure, it wouldve been able to make more proportional checks than normal. And, as 
the evidence also suggested she was able to operate the credit card well within the terms of 
the agreement for a significant period, he couldnt reasonably conclude NatWest had lent to 
Miss O irresponsibly.
Miss O didnt agree. She asked for the matter to be escalated to an ombudsman. After 
initially considering the case I asked both Miss O and NatWest for further information. 
NatWest responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres not a great deal I can add to what the investigators already told Miss O. I think hes 
covered most points quite clearly. I dont think NatWest acted unfairly when it approved Miss 
Os credit card application and Ill explain why.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say NatWest had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss O could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like:
The amount of credit;
The total amount repayable and the size of regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The costs of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate in terms of
the checks it carries out.
The parties disagree with when and how the application was made. Its disappointing that, 
despite my request, NatWest cant provide any details or notes relating to any branch 
meeting. Nor are they able to provide contact notes for either the credit card or current 
account going back further than six months. So, I cant know exactly what happened. 
Although I can see why our investigator didnt rule out the instance that Miss O might have 
completed an online application in branch, I dont think that impacts on the central decision 
Ive got to make here. Thats as, wherever the application was made, NatWest had the same 
responsibility to complete the affordability checks Ive outlined above. Ive looked carefully at 
the same information as the investigator. I shant repeat it as hes listed this fully in his view.
I can see NatWest took details from the application of Miss Os income and outgoings and 
had the information recorded on her credit file. It would have seen Miss Os income was in 
line with what shed declared. Also, it would have seen there were no defaults or CCJs at 
the time of the application. And although Nat West would see Miss O owed money 
elsewhere it appears to have taken the cost of servicing those debts, along with other living 
costs, into account when it looked at her application. 
Theres nothing from Miss O to counter or challenge the information NatWest have sent us 
about her circumstances and affordability or that they are wrong or inaccurate. And, the 
movements and month end balance shown on the statements Ive seen would broadly 
support the amount NatWest calculated she had free each month to service repayments for 
this credit card. So, from the information before me, I think it had the necessary information 
available to consider Miss Os application. And the affordability data supports this 
information meeting their lending criteria at the time. 
I dont think the composition of Miss Os income and her circumstances at the time would, on 
their own, prevent a bank from lending with such an affordability assessment. So, whilst Ive 
noted her concerns on this, in isolation, they dont change my view. Overall, on the 
information before me, I cant say NatWests decision to lend here was irresponsible. 
I appreciate Miss O is unhappy about the overall response to her situation in 2019 is that 
shes ended applying for and being approved for a credit card. Miss O says the consultant 
she spoke to in branch - who processed her application - invited her to contact them if she 
needed any more advice. And she says she emailed them about one month later as she was 
in difficulties. Although I asked to see this, I dont have a copy of this email. And, 
unfortunately, there are no contact notes covering this period. But, even if I accept what Miss 
O has told us, I cant see that those concerns and difficulties stopped her from using the card 
and accumulating a balance close to the limit in the first twelve months of use. Or, in some 
months during that first year, from making monthly payments towards the balance, well in 
excess of the minimum payment that was due. I appreciate Miss O feels strongly about what happened in 2019 when she approached the 
bank for help and applied for this card. But based on everything Ive seen I cant reasonably 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman