DRN-1747862
The complaint
Mr S complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from Close 
Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Close Brothers. At the point of supply the car was 7 years old and had covered mileage 
of around 102,000 miles.
Within the first 6 months, Mr S experienced issues with the engine management light 
illuminating and problems with the timing and cruise control. He reported this to Close 
Brothers and the car was returned to the supplying dealer, who determined that it wasnt 
responsible for repairs. 
Mr S remained unhappy, so Close Brothers arranged for an independent inspection of the 
car.
The inspection found that the car had a possible worn or stretched timing chain caused by 
general wear and tear. No issues were found with the cruise control. The report concluded 
that the fault wasnt present at the point of supply.
Based on the findings of the inspection, Close Brothers advised Mr S that it wasnt prepared 
to pay for the costs of repair. Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. and said it was clear from the inspection report 
that the issues werent present at the point of supply.
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt think the mileage of the car was something which should have 
been taken into consideration. He provided further information and said there was now an 
issue with the stop/start function.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Close Brothers has supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid. I would expect a second-hand car such as that supplied to Mr S to have a degree of 
wear and tear. So in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car 
had an inherent fault rather than an issue caused by general wear and tear. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months theres a 
presumption that it was present at the point of supply unless the business can show 
otherwise. After 6 months its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present at the 
point of supply.
An independent engineers report can help decide whether a car is of satisfactory quality. In 
this case, the engineer found the issue to be caused by a worn and stretched timing chain, 
which he said was due to wear and tear. No faults were found with the cruise control.
I appreciate that Mr S doesnt agree that the mileage is a relevant factor. However, the 
mileage is one of the factors taken into account when deciding whether a car is of 
satisfactory quality. A car which has covered over 100,000 miles such as Mr Ss car is more 
likely to have wear and tear to the component parts. Ive no reason to doubt the conclusions 
of the engineer when he says the timing chain has become stretched due to wear and tear. If 
there had been a fault with the timing chain at the point of supply I would have expected this 
to have become apparent much earlier in the agreement, and not several months later.
Mr S has said that the stop/start isnt working now and that there are fault codes. I cant see 
that Mr S reported issues with the stop start prior to the independent inspection. The 
inspection didnt find any issues with the stop start. So I cant conclude that this fault was 
present at the point  of supply. The fault codes mentioned are the same as the fault codes 
found by the engineer, who concluded (notwithstanding these) that the issue with the car 
was due to wear and tear.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. Im persuaded by the engineers report which says the issue was due to wear and 
tear, so I wont be asking Close Brothers to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman