DRN-4330701
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way that Aetna Insurance Company Limited has handled claims 
he made over a number of years on a private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties. So Ive set out a brief 
summary of what I consider to be the key events.
Mr R took out a Pioneer medical insurance policy in 2002. The policy renewed on 7 
February of each year. 
In 2019, Mr R made a number of claims on the policy, including invoices which dated back to 
a few years earlier. Aetna overlooked Mr Rs claims initially and the claims dont appear to 
have been settled until February 2021. Mr R made a complaint about the delays hed 
experienced.
At a similar time, in February 2021, the underwriter of Mr Rs policy changed to Aetna 
Insurance (Hong Kong) Limited (AIHKL). 
Aetna issued a final response to Mr Rs complaint in March 2021. It offered Mr R £1000 
compensation for the delays in processing his claims. This amount was also intended to 
include interest for the time Mr R had been out of pocket due to the delays in settling his 
claims. The final response letter provided referral rights to this service if Mr R was unhappy 
with Aetnas position.
At renewal in February 2022, Mr Rs policy underwriter switched again to Aetna Insurance 
Company Limited. Mr R made further claims on the policy during the policy year. Again, he 
was unhappy with delays he experienced and Aetnas claims handling-process. So, after 
further correspondence between Mr R and Aetna, he made a new complaint.
Aetna provided a final response to Mr Rs further complaint in March 2023. It explained that 
all of Mr Rs claims had been reviewed and all but one had been settled. It told Mr R that it 
had wrongly accepted and paid a claim for a medication which wasnt approved by the 
relevant regulator to treat one of Mr Rs conditions. But it agreed that it wouldnt ask Mr R to 
reimburse the money. In follow-up letters dated 5 and 18 April 2023, Aetna agreed to pay Mr 
R a one-off amount of £2000, which was inclusive of the £1000 it had offered in 2021. As 
such, it offered Mr R £1000 compensation for its handling of his claims after it had begun 
underwriting the policy in February 2022.
Mr R remained unhappy with Aetnas position and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Aetna let us know that it didnt consent to us looking into some of the issues Mr R had 
raised. It said that Mr R had complained to us about the issues it had dealt with in its final 
response letter of March 2021 too late. And it told us that AIHKL wasnt within our territorial 
jurisdiction either. So it didnt think we could consider anything that happened within the 
2021-2022 policy year, while the policy had been underwritten by AIHKL.
Our investigator didnt think we could help Mr R with all of his complaint. She was satisfied 
Mr R had made his part of his complaint outside of the timescales set out in the rules under 
which we operate. Thats because Aetnas final response letter of March 2021 had given Mr 
R six months to bring a complaint to us about the issues dealt it with. But Mr R hadnt 
complained to us until May 2023. The investigator didnt think exceptional circumstances 
applied which would have prevented Mr R bringing a complaint to us within six months. And 
the investigator didnt think we had the power to look at any complaint points relating to the 
period while AIHKL had been the policy underwriter, as it didnt fall within our jurisdiction.
The investigator thought we could consider Mr Rs complaint about the way Aetna had 
handled claims during the 2022-23 policy year. She felt that Aetna had demonstrated that it 
had dealt with the majority of Mr Rs outstanding claims and that it had paid for one 
medication outside the policy terms. She also thought its offer to pay Mr R £1000 
compensation (together with the £1000 Aetna had offered in March 2021) was fair and 
reasonable. So she didnt recommend that Aetna should do anything more.
Mr R disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to us. He felt that given his medical 
situation following Aetnas final response of March 2021, he hadnt been able to bring a 
complaint to us in time. He said Aetna had made an extremely large number of serious 
errors over several years and thered been a continuous exchange of emails whilst hed 
been an Aetna customer. He considered that as Aetna had included the offer of 
compensation it had made in 2021 in its offer of April 2023, it had waived the six-month time 
limit. He felt it was disingenuous to refer to Aetnas decision to recover a claim it had paid in 
error as a favour.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I will initially decide whether we have 
jurisdiction to look into the complaint points Mr R has made and then I will go on to consider 
the merits of any complaint points which I do find to be within our jurisdiction.
My findings on jurisdiction
I have looked at all the evidence and submissions to decide whether this is a complaint we 
have jurisdiction to consider.
Has the complaint been brought in time?
The Financial Ombudsman Service cant consider every complaint thats brought to us. The 
rules under which we operate  the Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) rules, set out what complaints we can and cant consider.
 DISP 2.8.2 says: 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant 
its final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication.
We can consider a complaint which has been made too late if the respondent financial 
business consents to us doing so; or if we think exceptional circumstances apply which 
prevented a consumer from bringing their complaint to us in time.
In this case, it seems Mr R first made a complaint to Aetna in late 2020 about the delays 
hed experienced in assessing and settling his claims. Aetna issued a final response to Mr R 
about those concerns on 10 March 2021. Im satisfied that Aetna clearly explained its settlement offer of £1000 compensation to Mr R; that it appears to have explained the 
reasons for the delays in settlement and that it gave Mr R clear referral rights to this service. 
Those referral rights explained that Mr R would need to bring a complaint to us within six 
months of that letter, or Aetna wouldnt consent to us looking into it. I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence which would lead me to conclude that Aetna agreed to extend the time 
limits.
Mr R didnt bring a complaint to us until May 2023  over two years after Aetna issued its 
final response. So Im satisfied that his complaint points relating to claims he made between 
2019 and February 2021 have been made out of time. I appreciate Mr R feels that Aetnas 
letters of April 2023 extended time under Aetnas first final response letter. However, I 
disagree. In my view, the April 2023 letters simply referred to the final response of March 
2021  they didnt revisit the complaint dealt with at that time.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Rs reasons for not bringing the complaint to us in time. Im 
sorry to hear he was unwell with a number of medical conditions. However, I dont think 
these conditions or his circumstances meant that he couldnt have referred a complaint to us 
in time. So I dont find that exceptional circumstances applied which meant Mr R was unable 
to complain to us within six months of Aetnas March 2021 letter.
This means that Ive decided that we cant consider Mr Rs complaint points which relate to 
the handling of his claims by Aetna during the period up until February 2021, which were 
addressed by the final response letter of March 2021. 
Is Mr Rs complaint within our territorial jurisdiction?
At Mr Rs February 2021 renewal, the policy underwriter switched to AIHKL. This was an 
insurer based in Hong Kong, which doesnt appear to have been subject to regulation by the 
UK regulator. 
DISP 2.6 sets out our compulsory and voluntary jurisdiction. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that AIHKL is a member of our voluntary jurisdiction. DISP 2.6.1 explains our compulsory 
jurisdiction and says:
(1)  The Compulsory Jurisdiction covers complaints about the activities of a firm (including 
its appointed representatives), of a payment service provider (including agents of a payment 
institution), of an electronic money issuer (including agents of an electronic money 
institution), of a CBTL firm, of a designated credit reference agency or of a designated 
finance platform which:
1. (a) are carried on from an establishment in the United Kingdom; or
2. (b)  are carried on from an establishment in an EEA State 
AIHKLs business isnt carried on from an establishment in the United Kingdom. And neither 
is its business carried on from an establishment in an EEA state. 
Ive looked carefully at the policy documents relating to the 2021-2022 policy year. Mr Rs 
policy schedule clearly states that his insurer is AIHKL. The policy terms state that the 
contract is governed by the law of China. And the contract terms also state that the courts of 
Hong Kong will have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute or claim arising out of or in 
connection with the plan.
On this basis, it seems to me that we dont have jurisdiction to consider any of Mr Rs 
complaint points relating to the 2021-2022 policy year, as AIHKL simply isnt within our territorial scope. So Ive decided that we cant look into any issues which concern AIHKLs 
handling of Mr Rs claims during the 2021-2022 policy year.
However, Im satisfied that I have the power to consider Mr Rs complaint about the way 
Aetna handled claims he made during the 2022-2023 policy year. Thats because Mr R 
complained within six months of Aetnas March 2023 final response letter. And its also 
because, in February 2022, Mr Rs insurer changed to Aetna, which is regulated by the UK 
regulator. So Aetna falls within our jurisdiction. Therefore, Ive gone on to consider the merits 
of that particular complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, I think Aetna has already made a fair 
offer to settle his complaint and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. Aetna 
accepts that it didnt handle Mr Rs claims during the 2022-2023 policy year as promptly as it 
could have done. There seem to have been delays in processing and paying claims, which 
has led to ongoing correspondence between Mr R and Aetna. Mr R has referred to errors in 
the claim calculations and errors in the communications Aetna has had with him. I dont 
doubt that these issues have caused Mr R unnecessary frustration and upset
Aetna has provided us with a breakdown of the claims its paid during the 2022-2023 policy 
year. Im satisfied that the breakdown indicates that Aetna has now dealt with all of Mr Rs 
claims (bar a claim which was outstanding at the time Aetna issued its final response). I can 
see that Aetna has also paid costs which are outside the scope of the policy terms, which it 
doesnt intend to recover. Aetna told Mr R that it wouldnt cover the costs of that particular 
treatment going forward, as this wasnt a recognised treatment for Mr Rs condition in the 
country he lived in. Im satisfied this decision was in line with the policy terms. 
Given the errors it seems Aetna accepts it made, its offered to pay Mr R £1000 
compensation to represent its failings during the 2022-2023 policy year. This is a significant 
award of compensation, which I think is fair, reasonable and proportionate to reflect the 
impact of errors which seem to have occurred during the course of that year. I understand 
too that Aetna issued a guarantee of payment to Mr Rs treating hospital, to cover any claims 
he made prior to the end date of the policy in February 2023. This was outside of the terms 
of the policy and in my view, it was a very fair step for Aetna to take, to ensure that Mr R was 
covered and wasnt potentially left out-of-pocket.
Overall then, whilst I appreciate Mr R feels that the compensation Aetna has offered isnt 
enough, I think it has made a fair offer to settle his complaint. Its open to Mr R to now 
contact Aetna to accept the £1000 it offered for the complaint made within the 2022-2023 
policy year. Its also open to him to contact Aetna to accept the previous offer of £1000 set 
out in its final response letter of March 2021 and which was reoffered in April 2023
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Aetna has already made a fair 
offer to settle Mr Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman