DRN-3419076
The complaint
E a company complains that Wise Payments Limited did not refund them a transaction they 
claim was fraudulent. 
E is represented by its director Ms R.
What happened
E had an account with Wise. On 29 July E transferred £698.45 to its supplier abroad for the 
payment of an order for goods. 
E has said only half the goods arrived and the goods that did arrive were faulty and the 
wrong colour or size. E attempted to contact its supplier abroad. E told us the supplier 
refused to refund the money.
On 12 September E complained to Wise. It said they had been a victim of fraud because 
they hadnt been provided with the goods they had contracted for. E wanted Wise to return 
the funds to them. 
Wise said it was unable to return funds to E as the funds had already left Es account. Wise 
also said it wouldnt get involved in disputes between a buyer and a seller. Ms R told Wise 
on 30 October the recipient of the funds was a fraudulent recipient. Wise confirmed they had 
put in a recall of the funds, but this hadnt been successful. 
E was unhappy with Wises response so complained to our service.
One of the investigators looked into the complaint. She said she didnt think Wise had done 
anything wrong as it wasnt able to recall the payment itself and had followed Es instructions 
when E wanted to transfer money to its supplier abroad. The investigator also said Ms R had 
sent a further transfer to the same supplier in October 2020. She didnt think a company who 
had been scammed by a supplier as Ms R was claiming would try and do business with the 
same company again.
Ms R was unhappy with the view she said the issue was with the second order which hadnt 
been received. Ms R said E was scammed out of the second order. And the goods they 
received from the first order were faulty.
The investigator asked for evidence of the first order as Ms R had previously said it was the 
first time E had purchased from that supplier. MS R sent further evidence and a timeline. 
She said the further 220 USD transfer to the same business was to secure the sending of 
the missing stock. Ms R says this was requested by the supplier and E agreed as a way to 
get hold of their missing stock.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Ms R believes Wise should refund E for the losses they 
have experienced due to the supplier not supplying the full order and supplying faulty goods. 
Ms R says she has been scammed by the company because E hasnt received what it 
contracted for.
I can see from the evidence that Ms R on behalf of E authorised a payment to be made to 
their suppliers abroad. Wise acted on these instructions and processed the payments to the 
supplier. I am satisfied that the payment isnt a disputed transaction. 
Ms R let Wise know she thought the supplier was a scam company and so Wise recalled the 
payment. I have seen Wise relied on section 12.13 of the Terms and conditions and used 
reasonable efforts to recover the funds. This is what I would expect Wise to do in the 
circumstances.
I have looked at Wises terms which E would have agreed to when they opened the account 
with Wise, Section 21.3 states Wise isnt liable for business losses if their services are used 
for commercial purposes. 
Wise let Ms R know they wouldnt get involved in disputes between the seller and the buyer 
and that once the payment is processed the funds cant be recovered.  Ms R has said other 
firms operate differently. I appreciate other firms may operate differently and investigate 
buyer seller disputes, but I can only look at how Wise operates.
Having looked at the evidence I cant say Wise has done anything wrong here. They have 
processed a payment to the supplier as requested using the information provided to them by 
E. And they have tried to recall the payment once this was made at the request of Ms R.
I appreciate that Ms R is concerned about her business and is unhappy that she hasnt 
received goods she ordered but this isnt something I can hold Wise responsible for. This is 
a contract dispute between a buyer and a seller where the seller hasnt provided the buyer 
with the goods as per the terms of the contract.  I appreciate for a small business not 
receiving goods ordered and paid for is very difficult. However, Ms R wishes Wise to 
compensate her for this. E may have a valid claim for breach of contract against its supplier. 
The supplier is overseas and pursuing such a claim will be difficult and expensive. I can see 
why Ms R would prefer that Wise refund her the payments it has made to the supplier rather 
than pursue a claim abroad. However Wise followed the instructions it was given by E and I 
dont think it has done anything wrong in this case. It follows I wont be asking Wise to do 
anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman