DRN-3280445
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions will not 
refund the money he lost after falling victim to a scam.
PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions is responsible for answering 
complaints about payment services provided by Monese Ltd. 
As Mr Fs account is Monese branded, I have referred to Monese when explaining what has 
happened in this complaint as this is what he is most familiar with.  
What happened
On 15 June 2020, Mr F fell victim to an impersonation scam. Fraudsters convinced him he 
was dealing with HMRC and had an outstanding tax liability. They told him hed not 
responded to letters that had been sent to his address and threatened him with 
imprisonment if he didnt now comply. Mr F says he asked the fraudsters for proof and they 
told him to check the phone number they were calling from against the gov.uk website. Mr F 
recalls that the phone number matched with a number listed on the official government 
website. In the belief that this was his last chance to try and sort the situation out, he made 
21 faster payments totalling £20,281 to four new payees between 14:28 and 18:11 that 
afternoon. He transferred money from his current account into his Monese mobile money 
account to make the payments.  
Mr F explains he was convinced he was dealing with the genuine organisation because the 
fraudsters were very professional. He recalls that what he was being told about court and 
prison worried him. Hes explained that he is a law-abiding person and that he wanted to 
make this situation go away as a criminal record would cause him problems with his work. 
He explains that the fraudsters managed to catch him at a particularly difficult time when he 
was stressed at work and not really thinking straight. Mr F has provided a copy of his work 
diary showing the high volume of meetings and commitments that he was juggling. 
Despite feeling overwhelmed, Mr F can remember some details from the call. He says that 
the fraudsters told him that his bank would be too slow sending payments and asked him if 
he had another account he could use to pay. He told the fraudsters he held an account with 
Monese and they said to use that one instead. The fraudsters then told Mr F that the 
payments had not gone through, so he needed to make them again. Mr F says he was told 
that any overpayments he had made would be refundable when the matter was sorted out. 
He recalls feeling a range of emotions during a phone call that lasted well over three hours. 
He was angry that hed never received the letters referred to and afraid of the authority of 
HMRC and the threats made. 
Mr F has explained that he is not a British citizen, English isnt his first language and he 
wasnt fully familiar with HMRC and how it worked. He feels these factors made him more 
susceptible to what the fraudster was saying. 
Mr F says he only realised hed been scammed when it dawned on him that hes never been 
self-employed and that his employer pays his tax directly to HMRC. He reported the matter 
to the Police and Action Fraud, then contacted Monese the next day. In this call, Mr F 
explains that the fraudsters were very clever and that he lost control of the situation.
On 16 and 17 June 2020, Monese contacted the beneficiary institutions to try and recover 
the money hed sent. Monese has not signed up to UK Finances Best Practice Standards 
for the recovery of funds. Unfortunately, only a few pence remained. 
Mr F was unhappy that Monese didnt stop or flag the transactions. He pointed out he never 
made transactions of this size so Monese should have noticed what was happening. 
Monese did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. In its final response, it explained that it had tried to 
recall the funds. It felt it had followed Mr Fs instructions to make the payments in line with 
the terms and conditions of his account. 
Unhappy with Moneses position, Mr F asked us to consider his complaint. Our Investigator 
looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld. 
He thought the transactions Mr F made were concerning and ought reasonably to have 
caused Monese some concern too. He thought Monese had missed an opportunity to ask 
further questions and identify what was happening. He thought there was an emerging 
pattern which could have been signs of financial harm evident from the fifth payment 
onwards, as by that point Mr F had moved money in and then swiftly out in order to make 
payments to three new payees within 40 minutes. 
He thought if Monese had initiated a meaningful interaction with Mr F at this point, it would 
have made all the difference and stopped him from incurring further loss. He noted that Mr F 
had not been given a cover story to tell the business, so its likely hed have spoken openly 
and honestly about the situation he was in. He thought Monese ought reasonably to have 
recognised that Mr Fs actions, by setting up new payees and rapidly emptying the balance 
of his account, bore the hallmarks of common scam activity. 
In all the circumstances, he thought Mr F had acted reasonably and that hed fallen victim to 
a sophisticated scam. He didnt think Mr F had acted negligently and contributed to his loss. 
He noted that phone number spoofing is a very powerful tool used by fraudsters. He also 
recognised that Mr F had less knowledge and awareness of HMRC and how tax affairs in 
this country work. He concluded that Monese should have done more and recommended 
that it refund all of the money lost starting with the fifth transaction Mr F made plus 8% 
simple interest. He also suggested that Monese should pay £250 compensation to Mr F to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience its actions have had on him. He noted the 
deterioration in Mr Fs mental health after the scam. 
Monese disagreed. It pointed out Mr Fs current account provider didnt flag anything when 
he moved the money to his Monese account. It also raised that one-time passcodes were 
sent to Mr F for each new payee and he should have been aware that these beneficiary 
details did not have any link to HMRC. It said it could not have interacted with Mr F at the 
time because he was already on the phone to the fraudsters. It added the amount Mr F 
needed to pay increased and it was unclear why he believed that to be genuine. 
It then said our Investigators outcome was underpinned by a judgement in a court case, 
Quincecare. It felt a more recent court case had challenged that precedent and narrowed the 
duty of care owed to a customer. Our Investigator told Monese he was aware of the recent Philipps v Barclays judgement 
where the judge took a different view about the Quincecare duty. He clarified he was not 
suggesting the Quincecare duty applied to this case. He pointed out that, notwithstanding 
what the judge recently said, we have a duty to resolve complaints based on what we think 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, taking into account not just the 
law, but also regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what we 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Monese said it still did not agree and requested for an Ombudsman to review the matter 
afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law and regulations  plus good industry practice and Moneses own 
submissions  suggest Monese has a duty of care to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams so far as reasonably possible. Monese might be negligent and liable for 
reasonably foreseeable losses if, in breach of that duty of care, it fails to act on information 
which ought reasonably to alert a prudent authorised electronic money institution to potential 
fraud or financial crime by, or against, its customer. 
Having said that, the Payment Services Regulations 2017 also indicate that Monese should 
execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay  and there is a presumption 
that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if that authorisation was 
obtained by third-party fraud.
Theres no dispute in this case that Mr F authorised all of the disputed transactions. And Ive 
taken the above obligations into account when deciding if Monese acted fairly and 
reasonably when it processed his instructions.
I am aware that Monese is not a bank. Nonetheless, in June 2020 when Mr F made these 
payments to fraudsters, transaction monitoring was firmly established as good industry 
practice and applied to electronic money institutions. I understand from Moneses 
submissions that it considers its duty of care to Mr F to be narrow. It has confirmed that 
Monese has systems in place to flag suspicious transactions, but these particular payments 
did not flag.  
I have looked at what I think is at the heart of the matter here, being: should Monese have 
recognised Mr Fs payments as being suspicious and intervened, and if it had done so, 
would it have made a difference to what happened. 
We agree that the law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a 
payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) 
for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (this is known as the Quincecare duty). I am mindful that the courts have 
interpreted Quincecare narrowly, but also, the circumstances of this complaint are different 
to that case. Im not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. The judges in the 
Philipp and Quincecare cases Monese referred to were restricted to deciding the issues 
before them as pleaded by the parties in an adversarial process with strict evidential rules. 
It is unclear from those judgments whether they were invited to consider, in detail or at all, 
the overall regulatory landscape or general principles of good industry practice. Our wider 
investigatory remit permits us to take account of such matters. I have a duty to resolve complaints based on what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case, taking into account not just the law, but also regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. In this case, I need to decide whether Monese acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr F or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Mr F doesnt dispute he made each payment himself. So Monese had an obligation to follow 
his instructions and make the payments he requested. But there are some situations in 
which Monese should reasonably have a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a 
payment. As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Monese shouldve 
been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
The activity on Mr Fs account that day does stand out as being unusual for him. 
I understand Mr F has held a Monese mobile money account since March 2020. Ive looked 
carefully at his account statements and I can see that the transactions he made on the day 
of the scam were very different in character to the type of transaction he typically made. His 
spending was usually low value contactless transactions in supermarkets and for public 
transport. His account balance was typically modest and tended to be no more than £100. 
But during the period of the scam, theres a significant increase in account movements, for 
much higher values than Mr F has ever spent, and to four new payees. I consider these 
factors to be signs that could indicate financial harm. 
Mr F made 21 payments in around three hours. The rapid emptying and replenishing of the 
account to utilise over £20,000 in around a three-hour period is significantly out of character 
for him and I think out of character for how an account held at an electronic money institution 
would typically be expected to run. Moneses product information explains that a cardholder 
is allowed to make 50 transfers each month, meaning Mr F had utilised a significant 
proportion of those within hours. Monese did not challenge any of these payments at the 
time of the scam. 
Having looked at the transactions, initially I dont think Monese would have had sufficient 
reason to be concerned that Mr F might have been at risk from financial harm from fraud. To 
begin with, the money Mr F transferred in and then out to a new payee was unremarkable in 
and of itself. But by the fifth payment Mr F made, I consider it was clear that something 
unusual was happening on Mr Fs account. 
At this point, a troubling pattern of spending has developed. I think Monese should have 
fairly and reasonably recognised that the activity unfolding on Mr Fs account was 
concerning. Mr F had made five payments to three new payees in approximately 40 minutes. 
Hed moved money into his account four times to make these payments and then rapidly 
utilised it all. I think that Monese should have done more to satisfy itself that there was no 
potential fraud or financial crime by, or against, its customer. 
Having established that Monese ought to have intervened, I am also persuaded that its 
intervention at this point would have made a significant difference and ultimately prevented 
Mr F from sending any more money. When making that decision, I have based my findings 
on the balance of probability  that is, what I think is more likely to have happened, taking 
into account what I know from the information that is available to me.
If Monese had correctly identified this pattern of spending as being unusual, Id have 
expected it to have contacted Mr F to ask questions about the nature and purpose of the 
payments he wanted to make. Monese raised that it could not have interacted with Mr F during the scam as he was already 
on the phone. It's unclear whether Monese only had a mobile number for Mr F or not. I am 
also mindful that app-based organisations can have different arrangements for account 
servicing and may not have dedicated call centre staff readily available. But I've not seen 
anything that makes me think Monese could not have blocked payments which would have 
resulted in Mr F needing to interact through the usual servicing channels in order to proceed. 
By not blocking the account, an opportunity to force Mr F to interact was missed. I think 
forced interaction would have prevented further payments from being made. It would have 
given Mr F reflection time and most likely taken him out of the environment created by the 
fraudsters. If Monese had been in contact with Mr F, it is more likely than not that it would 
have had concerns about what was happening even if Mr F did not. I am persuaded that 
sharing those concerns would have stopped Mr F from sending any more money. 
Ive thought carefully about the points Monese has made in response to our Investigators 
position and I still think that Monese should have done more than it did and that doing so 
would more likely than not have uncovered what was happening and prevented Mr F from 
incurring any further loss. 
Monese suggested that Mr Fs bank could be responsible for the loss as they didnt flag 
anything unusual either. But in this case, Mr F transferred money from his bank account to 
another of his accounts held with Monese and from that account to the fraudster. I'm 
satisfied it wasnt the transfer of funds from Mr F's current account (or his bank's failure to 
intervene in those transfers) that caused the loss. Mr F wouldnt have suffered a loss at all 
had it not been for the transfer from his account at Monese to the fraudster and that, I think, 
is the actual cause of his loss. I cant fairly hold his bank responsible for Mr F's loss as the 
loss hasnt been caused by its actions.
Monese pointed out that it had sent Mr F one-time passcodes each time he set up a new 
payee and he should have been aware that these beneficiary details did not have any link to 
HMRC. Whilst I recognise that Monese feels Mr F ought to have realised that a genuine 
organisation wouldnt require Mr F to pay individual accounts held at different institutions, 
I think Monese has placed insufficient weight on the environment created by the fraudster. 
In impersonation scams, fraudsters are masterful at providing cover stories that are plausible 
and are often coaching their victim to explain away concerns. The environment created by 
the fraudster is one of fear and panic, making it more difficult for a consumer to think 
rationally. We know fraudsters are very good at manipulating people and persuading them to 
do things they would not do in the cold light of day, away from a highly pressured 
environment. This is evident from Mr Fs reflection on the situation where he has explained 
that he does not know what switched in his mind. But Mr F does not have the same level of 
knowledge that a financial business has about what well known scams like this look and feel 
like.
Monese has raised concerns about the plausibility of the situation Mr F was in. It points out 
the amount he needed to pay kept increasing and it was unclear why he believed that to be 
genuine. But Mr F has described how the scam caught him off guard and at a particularly 
busy time at work. Hes explained that he was unable to think clearly. With hindsight, Mr F 
blames himself for realising it was a scam so late. From what Mr F has said and described, 
the environment created by the fraudster convinced him he was genuinely interacting with 
HMRC. Its clear from what he's said that the combination of stress, fear and panic disarmed 
him. The sophistication of the scam is relevant here. Mr F was afraid of the consequences of 
arrest and court action on his employment and immigration status. He felt the fraudster's 
processes and method of operation, including the spoofing of a number linked to a genuine 
UK government agency, made those threats real ones. I dont think it is fair and reasonable 
to expect Mr F to have realised he was being scammed sooner. The checks and measures a business undertakes should be proportionate to the relationship 
that exists between it and its customer. The way Mr F was using his account when 
unwittingly transferring his life savings to fraudsters was unusual for him. It matched a 
pattern indicative of fraud and it was different to what Monese knew about the way Mr Fs 
account usually ran. 
Monese has said that it does have systems in place to look out for fraud. Against this 
backdrop, Im not satisfied Monese did enough to try and protect Mr F from financial harm in 
the particular circumstances of this complaint. 
Whilst I recognise that Monese is an electronic money institution, its mobile money account 
encourages usage akin to a current account, including bill payments, purchases and other 
everyday spending. Although Mr F was not a long-standing customer, he had been an active 
customer for around three months and had built up a pattern of day to day spending that can 
be identified as normal for him. At the very basic level, the activity on the account on the 
afternoon of the scam was a change to Mr Fs usual usage, which I think Monese ought 
reasonably to have detected, in line with its duty of care and good industry practice. 
Taking into account the firms obligations, as well as the particular circumstances of this 
complaint, I do not think Monese acted fairly because it did not do enough to try to protect 
Mr F from financial harm from fraud. I consider that this has had a detrimental impact on 
Mr F. Im persuaded Monese missed an opportunity to detect that something was amiss and 
that it more likely than not would have prevented Mr F from suffering any further loss if it had 
intervened appropriately. In the circumstances, I am satisfied that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Monese to refund the money lost from the fifth payment onwards. 
I also think it is appropriate to make an award of £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr F has suffered. Hes understandably found things difficult since the scam. Its a lot of 
money for anyone to lose. Mr F tried to contact the fraudsters after the scam to ask for them 
to return his money as it was all of his savings and hed worked hard to build them up. Its 
clear the fraudsters robbed him of more than just money, it was his future plans that now will 
take longer to realise. In reaching that conclusion, Im aware that his loss was ultimately 
caused by the actions of the fraudsters but remain mindful that Monese could ultimately 
have prevented the extent of the harm that hes suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to uphold this complaint and require PrePay 
Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions to:
Pay Mr F the money he lost from the fifth transaction onwards (£16,482).
Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount, from the date of the 
unauthorised transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully 
deductible). 
Pay Mr F £250 distress and inconvenience to recognise the impact its actions 
have had on him.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Claire MarshOmbudsman