DRN-3955979
The complaint
Miss F has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund a 
transaction she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In November 2022, Miss Fs debit card and PIN were used to pay £180 at a merchant, while 
she was out with people she knew.
Miss F didnt recognise the entry on her statement and disputed the payment. She explained 
her card was in her possession the whole time, she didnt let anyone else use it, there was 
no opportunity to take it and give it back, her PIN was not written down or shared and only 
she knew it, and she was sure that no one she knew had made the payment.
NatWest held Miss F liable for the payment in dispute. They found there was no plausible 
way someone could have made it without her consent. Miss F was particularly unhappy that 
NatWest couldnt give her more details about who the merchant was.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that NatWest only had access to limited information about merchants. Miss F 
asked for an ombudsman to review her case afresh, so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, NatWest can hold Miss F liable for the payment in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that she authorised it.
Im satisfied from NatWests technical evidence that the payment in dispute used Miss Fs 
genuine card, and the correct PIN. It did not use a cloned card. So I can see that the 
transaction was properly authenticated. The question, then, is whether the evidence 
suggests that its most likely Miss F consented to the transaction, or not.
First, Ive considered the possibility that someone who Miss F didnt know  e.g. a third party 
thief  made the payment.
Miss F kept her card safe in a wallet, it didnt go missing, she didnt give it to anyone, and 
she still had it afterwards. So theres not a likely way that a thief couldve accessed her card. 
And again, this payment used her real card, not a clone. Further, its not plausible that a thief 
would give Miss Fs card back to her after using it  that would hugely increase their chances 
of being caught while actively stopping them from stealing as much money as they could, 
when a thief would instead be motivated to try to take as much money as possible as quickly 
as possible. And its not very plausible that they could put Miss Fs card back in her wallet 
without anyone noticing, either.
Whats more, Miss Fs PIN wasnt written down or shared with anyone  only she knew it. 
And she hadnt made any other payments with her PIN that day, so there was no opportunity 
for a thief to watch her entering it and learn it that way. So there is no likely or plausible way 
that a thief couldve learned her PIN.
And so there is not a likely or plausible way that an unknown party did this.
It is technically possible that someone known to Miss F may have made the transaction 
without her permission, such as a friend or family member. For example, they might have 
watched her enter her PIN on some prior occasion, then taken the card and put it back. But 
I dont think thats likely, either. It still wouldve been very difficult for a known party to take 
and replace the card from Miss Fs wallet while out with her, without her noticing. And Miss F 
has repeatedly been very clear that there was no opportunity to take and replace her card, 
and that no one she knows did this. So it seems Miss F herself has ruled out this possibility.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Miss F 
couldve authorised the payment or given someone else permission to make it.
In summary, Im satisfied that Miss Fs genuine card and PIN were used. Based on the 
evidence, there isnt a likely way an unknown person did this, or that someone known to 
Miss F did this without her permission. That leaves only one likely possibility  that Miss F 
made the transaction or gave someone else permission to make it. This is a difficult 
message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Miss F to receive. But given 
the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any 
other conclusion.
Miss F pointed out that on her statement, this payment bore the same card symbol as a 
payment she made online. But thats just because they were both card payments, as 
opposed to e.g. direct debits or standing orders  even if they were card payments made by 
different methods. I can see from the technical information that the disputed payment was 
made in person by chip and PIN, using Miss Fs real physical card.
I also really do appreciate that Miss F would like more information about the merchant. But 
banks only receive so much information about each of the millions of individual payments 
that go out. Their main concern is that the payment was properly authorised by their genuine 
customer. So their system can see if the real card and PIN were used  as they were here. 
But banks arent really there to track down merchants, and there are lots of reasons why a 
bank might not be able to see exactly where a particular payment was made.For example, a payment might not come direct, but instead go through a processing firm or a 
firm that provides card readers to merchants  in this case, SumUp. Payments sometimes 
go through a head office for admin reasons, meaning one might not see the address for the 
individual store. And merchants often having trading names that are very different to their 
company name, so a customer might not recognise the name that shows up on their 
statement. For example, a customer might not recognise the name Meta Platforms Inc, but 
will probably recognise their trading name Facebook. In this case, the evidence is strong that 
this payment was properly authorised. I think its most likely that Miss F simply doesnt 
remember it, not least as the company name on her statement may be very different from 
the trading name of the merchant she shopped at.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman