DRN-2744042
The complaint
Mr P complains that Vanquis Bank Limited wont compensate him for purchases he made 
using his credit card. Mr P believes the goods in question were misrepresented to him.
What happened
In 2014 Mr P used his Vanquis credit card with a number of online retailers to buy what were 
known as Long-term Food Kits. A few years later Mr P became aware that the kit 
manufacturer (W) had been involved in a class action overseas. W had agreed to settle the 
action, which centred on the description of the kits  particularly, their calorific content and 
lifespan.
Mr P claimed (and received) a refund of some of the money hed paid to one of the retailers 
(A). However, when Mr P approached Vanquis to seek a refund of the rest of the money 
hed paid, Vanquis told him it didnt think it was liable to him. Vanquis said its initial response 
hadnt been as clear as it could have been. To recognise this, it was paying Mr P £50 
compensation. However, because the way the transactions were structured broke the link 
between the debtor, creditor and supplier, it had no liability under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA1974).
Vanquis went on to say that some of the purchases in question didnt meet the financial 
limits set out in section 75, taking into account exchange rates. They were not more than 
£100 each. Further, the products Mr P bought werent in the list detailed in the class action. 
And while Mr P had provided information on the class action, the matter had been settled 
without a determination by a court of law. Mr P hadnt provided evidence that the retailers 
had misrepresented the products to him, or that the retailers were in breach of contract.
Mr P didnt accept Vanquiss response, disputing that there was any break in the debtor-
creditor-supplier arrangements. He said the products within the kits hed bought were 
included in the class action list. Mr P also said his purchases should qualify under the 
section 75 financial limits, as they were made as part of an overall package or set, and 
should also include customs and shipping charges. He maintained his view that the class 
action  while not determined by a court of law  had been settled by W, and that itself was 
evidence of misrepresentation and breach of contract.
Our investigator set out what he considered the relevant tests for Mr P to make a successful 
claim against Vanquis under section 75 of the CCA1974. He was satisfied that in each of the 
transactions there was a valid debtor-creditor-supplier link. He wasnt persuaded that every 
transaction met the financial limits in section 75, but considered some payments did qualify. 
However, the investigator didnt think the claim would be successful, as Mr Ps contracts 
were with the individual retailers rather than with W. As Mr P didnt have any information to 
show what hed seen or relied on when entering into the contracts with the retailers, the 
investigator wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator and reiterated his key points. He remains of the 
opinion that he has demonstrated there was misrepresentation and contract breaches. As a 
result, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps credit card is regulated by the CCA1974. One effect of section 75 of the CCA1974 is 
that, where an individual (the debtor) buys goods from a supplier using credit provided under 
pre-existing arrangements between the lender (creditor) and the supplier, that individual can 
bring a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the lender in the same way 
he could against the supplier.
This is the debtor-creditor-supplier link the parties have referenced in their complaint 
correspondence. On the evidence provided, Im satisfied theres relevant debtor-creditor-
supplier arrangements in place between Mr P, Vanquis and the retailers, and that at least 
some of the transactions were for more than £100, as section 75 requires. That means he 
can bring a claim. It doesnt mean the claim will be successful.
Misrepresentation is a false statement of fact or law, made by one party that induces the 
other to contract with it. In certain circumstances, that statement can be made by an agent 
acting within the authority of the contracting party, or by a third party where the contracting 
party knows the third party has made a misrepresentation. The breach of contract alleged 
here by Mr P involves being supplied with goods that dont conform to the contract because 
they werent as described; a similar point, though a distinction is drawn in law.
I understand where Mr P is coming from. He strongly believes hes provided evidence to 
show theres been a breach of contract and/or misrepresentation. He may be right on that 
point, though the fact W chose to settle the class action rather than admit liability or have it 
determined in a court of law isnt itself conclusive. The fact a judge ratified the settlement is 
of no additional benefit in establishing that such a claim might be successful. But theres a 
more fundamental problem Mr P faces, which is that any claim he might have against W isnt 
necessarily a claim he can pursue against Vanquis.
Put simply, Mr P can only bring a claim against Vanquis under section 75 in respect of the 
contracts he entered into that were financed by the credit Vanquis provided. That definition, 
as set out in the CCA1974, doesnt extend to any duty or obligation on Ws part. Mr P has 
provided evidence that demonstrates the contracts he entered into and paid for using his 
Vanquis card were with retailers selling Ws products, rather than with W itself who wasnt 
party to the contracts in question. The supplier in each instance was the respective retailer, 
not W. So in order for Mr Ps claim  whether in misrepresentation or in breach of those 
contracts  to be successful, he would need to demonstrate what the retailers did wrong.
Mr P hasnt put forward evidence regarding anything the retailers told him about the products 
he was buying such as might amount to misrepresentation or a breach of contract on the 
basis that they werent as described. Indeed, hes told us that he doesnt have any of that 
information. Nor has he suggested that in 2014, when he made his purchases, that the 
retailers knew what W was saying about its products might be untrue. In addition, what Mr P 
has provided is in my view some distance from amounting to persuasive evidence of any 
other grounds for breach of contract, such as unsatisfactory quality. Taking all of this into 
account, I cant accept that Vanquis was wrong to decline his claim.Even if Vanquis wasnt itself liable, it might have been able to help Mr P to recover his 
money, for example by raising a chargeback. It can only do so in line with grounds set out in 
rules issued by the card scheme. Ive thought about the reason codes set out in those rules, 
but Im afraid the circumstances described by Mr P dont give Vanquis suitable grounds to 
raise a chargeback on his behalf.
Thats not to say that Vanquis dealt with everything entirely correctly. There are some points 
that it could  and should  have been clearer on, as it has itself acknowledged. But none of 
these changes whether it should be liable to compensate Mr P for the items he bought. It 
follows that I dont require Vanquis to reimburse any element of the transactions he made, or 
to pay him interest on those sums.
While I note Mr Ps sentiments regarding the time hes spent on this matter, I dont think I 
can properly say Vanquis needs to offer Mr P more compensation than the £50 it has 
already paid him. Although some of the arguments made by the bank were open to 
challenge  the debtor-creditor-supplier arrangements, for example  I doubt Mr P would 
otherwise have accepted the rejection of his claim. In my view, the extent of any impact on 
Mr P of the way Vanquis handled his claim is suitably addressed by its existing payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my decision is that I dont require Vanquis Bank Limited to 
pay Mr P further compensation, or to take any other action to resolve his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman