DRN-3888596
The complaint
T complains The Baptist Insurance Company Plc (Baptist) unfairly declined a claim for 
storm damage on their commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
T had a commercial property insurance policy with Baptist. The policy provided cover for a 
large, purpose-built structure completed in the 1970s. In early 2020 T made a claim against 
the policy for storm damage. This included damage to the exterior and interior. 
Baptist didnt accept the damage was caused by a storm, so it didnt agree to settle the claim 
under the storm damage part of the policy. But it did agree to cover damage to the interior 
under the accidental damage part of the policy. 
T didnt think theyd been treated fairly. In their view there had been a storm and that storm 
had damaged a roof which had until that point been sound. They also had concerns about 
the evidence relied upon to consider the claim and questioned how the damage to the 
exterior can be treated differently to the damage to the interior.
Our service has reached differing outcomes on this complaint and neither T nor Baptist has 
accepted our services findings to date. So, the complaint was passed to me to have our 
services final say on the matter. I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Storm damage
Ts policy provides cover for storm damage, which is what is being claimed for. With 
a storm damage claim there are three main considerations. Both parties are familiar 
with these considerations but for completeness Ill include them below.
 
1. Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage 
is said to have happened? 
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will now set out my findings in relation to the above considerations. If I find the 
answer is yes to all three questions I will likely uphold the complaint. If I find one of 
the answers is no, I likely wont. 
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened?
The policy doesnt define what a storm is. So Ill use the generally accepted definition 
of a storm, which is where there are violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail 
or snow. 
When T first contacted Baptist on 3 March 2020, they asked whether the policy would 
cover damage to a flat roof following a storm. They said over the previous three 
weekends there had been three storms, and the roof had taken a bit of a beating 
with a lot of [the] asphalt being torn. There isnt, therefore, one specific storm being 
claimed for here. So I have reviewed weather data for February 2020 and focused on 
the three standout days. Ive seen two sets of data for each:
- 9 February 2020. One from a nearby weather station shows wind speeds of up to 
56 miles per hour, with rainfall of up to 2.2 mm per hour. Another, based on 
satellite data, shows wind speeds of up to 59 miles per hour, with rainfall of up to 
6.3 mm per hour.
- 16 February 2020. One from a nearby weather station shows wind speeds of up 
to 55 miles per hour, with rainfall of up to 22.8 mm per hour. Another, based on 
satellite data, shows wind speeds of up to 53 miles per hour, with rainfall of up to 
19.8 mm per hour.
- 22 February 2020. One from a nearby weather station shows wind speeds of up 
to 47 miles per hour, with rainfall of up to 3.4 mm per hour. Another, based on 
satellite data, shows wind speeds of up to 46 miles per hour, with rainfall of up to 
0.2 mm per hour.
Im satisfied the wind speeds shown above amount to storm conditions, even if the 
rainfall doesnt. Baptist accepts this is the case, albeit based solely on weather 
conditions on 9 February 2020. The answer to the first consideration is therefore 
yes, I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened. 
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
 
Ts contractor provided his opinion. He said, in summary, the volume of rainfall was 
so great the drainage pipes were unable to cope causing them to back up with 
sufficient force to lift the asphalt felt roof covering allowing for water ingress. 
Baptists loss adjuster and building surveyor didnt think water backing up from the 
drainage pipes to lift the roof covering was the cause of the damage. They 
concluded, in summary, there might have been an element of storm damage, but 
given the poor condition of the roof it should be considered a final straw incident.
Storms can cause damage to a roof. That, and with the above in mind, means Im 
satisfied the damage could have been caused by a storm. It follows the answer to 
this consideration is yes, the damage claimed for is consistent with damage a storm 
typically causes.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
T considers it was. Baptist, on the other hand, considers the main cause to have 
been the poor condition of the roof. I have considered the opinions of the three 
experts, as well as photographs and the wider circumstances, such as what is known 
of the roof and the repairs. Having done so, Im not persuaded the storm conditions 
were the main cause of the damage. Ill explain why.
 
Ts contractor explained he thought the main cause of the damage was the volume of 
rainfall. I dont find this explanation compelling for the following key reasons:- The weather data as set out above doesnt suggest an unusually large volume of 
rainfall. The roof had been in place for many years, so I cant see why the 
drainage pipes would have failed here and not previously.
- Ts contractor viewed the roof on 6 March 2020  some days, or indeed weeks, 
after the storm(s). Im not persuaded he could reasonably have known at this 
point the effectiveness of the drainage pipes at the times in question. 
- The repair quote by Ts contractor doesnt appear to include a change to the 
drainage system. It does, however, quote for the whole roof to be updated. 
Baptist considers the main cause of the damage was the poor condition of the roof. I 
find this explanation more compelling for the following key reasons:
- Generally, a storm will damage a part, or parts, of a roof. Ts contractor said the 
necessary repairs included waterproofing the entire flat roof, of 7m by 36m, at a 
cost of about £33,000. Thats a significant area and a significant expense, which 
suggests to me the whole roof needed updating, rather than a part/parts 
damaged by a storm.  
- Baptists loss adjuster and building surveyor commented on the age and 
condition of the roof, including saying there were indications of previous 
temporary fixes, which they felt were also of age. They concluded the roof was at 
the end of its serviceable life and in need of replacement. I find their testimonies 
well-reasoned given their length and detail, and from the photographs I agree the 
roof looks old and worn. 
- Flat roofs have a limited lifespan, and maintenance is an important factor. T 
hasnt been able to show when the flat roof was placed, or what maintenance has 
taken place. T estimate the roof was placed about 15 years prior to the damage. 
Baptists surveyor gauged the roof to be at least 30 years old.
 
I find it more likely than not that the roof needed updating, and the weather conditions 
in February 2020 simply highlighted this. It follows the answer to this final 
consideration is no, I do not consider that the storm conditions were the main cause 
of the damage. It was therefore fair and reasonable for Baptist to decline the claim 
under the storm damage part of the policy. 
Accidental damage
When Baptist declined the claim - for damage to the exterior and interior - under the 
storm damage part of the policy, it considered whether another part of the policy 
would respond - as I would expect it to. And it decided to accept a claim for damage 
to the interior under the accidental damage part of the policy.
The policy doesnt define what accidental damage is. But its generally accepted to 
mean damage thats sudden, unexpected, and not done on purpose. Im satisfied, as 
clearly Baptist is too, that the sudden appearance of water internally met the 
generally accepted meaning of accidental damage. I say this because Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that T had any awareness of water penetrating previously or been 
shown any signs of any gradual damage that had built up over time.
However, the exclusion in the accidental damage part of the policy for wear and tear, 
which I will include below, applies.What is not covered
(ii) Damage caused by or consisting of inherent vice, latent defect, wear and 
tear, depreciation, atmospheric or climatic conditions, rust, dust, fungus, 
insects, vermin, the propertys own faulty or defective design or materials, 
faulty or defective workmanship, or any gradual cause, but this shall not 
exclude subsequent damage which itself results from a cause not otherwise 
excluded.
This means damage to the exterior would be excluded under the accidental damage 
part of the policy, because the main cause of the damage to the exterior was the 
condition of the roof  in other words, damage caused by wear and tear. Baptist has 
said the exclusion doesnt apply to the damage to the interior and has paid that part 
of the claim. I find that fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The evidence
T had concerns about the evidence relied upon to consider the claim. In brief, T 
considers Baptist (or one of its agents) should have inspected the roof in-person, and 
that because this didnt happen, the claim has been decided on amateur 
photographs.
Theres a dispute about why a visit didnt go ahead. T says an appointment was 
made, and the agent didnt attend. Baptist says the visit was deemed unnecessary, 
especially with the backdrop of the Covid pandemic. It further says when a visit was 
later being planned it became apparent the repairs having been already completed 
made a visit moot. 
Ultimately, the visit didnt happen, and the repairs have been complete for some time 
now, so a visit is no longer a viable option. I dont consider a visit would have made a 
material difference to the outcome of the claim. Ill explain why.
Its common for claims such as this to be decided in part by reviewing photographs. T 
may consider the photographs amateur, but they show the roof. The loss adjuster 
and the building surveyor considered the photographs showed enough to reach their 
conclusions, and I find them clear. Im therefore not persuaded an in-person visit, or 
more professional photographs, would change matters.
 
My provisional decision 
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
 
Baptist didnt have any more comments and evidence for me to consider. T responded to 
say they were naturally extremely disappointed with my provisional decision and set out 
seven points which they asked me to consider.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ts points fall into two categories, which I will address in turn.
1. The lack of an in-person inspection by Baptist (or one of its agents).T say that a visit was booked and then cancelled by Baptist, that Covid shouldnt have 
impacted an outdoor inspection of the roof, and that repairs hadnt been completed when an 
inspection was first agreed. They also say the damage to the interior was inspected, which 
they say shows an inconsistency in approach. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, there is a dispute about why a visit didnt go ahead. In 
my provisional view I thought it was immaterial to resolving this complaint as there now cant 
be an in-person inspection given the repairs are complete. I remain of that view, but given 
Ts strength of feeling on this point I will address it. 
Emails show on 19 May 2020 Baptist told T a loss adjuster had been appointed and would 
be in touch to arrange a visit, T said they had had to start repairs, and the loss adjuster 
confirmed the visit had been arranged for the following day. The loss adjuster, in his report 
dated 21 May 2020, said:
we made immediate contact with the Insured and following an initial telephone call, was 
advised that repairs were in the process of being completed. Owing to the current pandemic, 
[T] is operating a strict lockdown policy and it was agreed there would be little benefit as to
a site visit (as repairs would be completed within 24 hours) and a telephone interview was 
completed on 20 May 2020, with [Ts representative].
From the above Im satisfied the intention was for an in-person inspection to take place, but 
that for the reasons set out by the loss adjuster, which I consider reasonable, one didnt. T 
dont comment much on this aspect. What they focus on is what happened next following the 
loss adjuster recommending a building surveyor be instructed to assess the damage, and 
the building surveyor not doing an in-person inspection. 
Ts position is best summed up in an email dated 24 June 2021:
The surveyor explained she had just returned from furlough and having viewed the photos it 
had been deemed necessary for her to come to site. I said she would be very welcome and 
although the repairs were underway, to save further damage and considering our service of 
vulnerable members of our community, the repairs were not complete and therefore the 
condition of the old roof was still accessible for inspection. The surveyor then asked whether 
she could avail herself of the roofing contractors' scaffolding. I said I would check and come 
back to her which I did confirming the scaffold's availability. She thanked me and arranged to 
visit, an appointment that was not kept. I then received a voicemail from the surveyor to say 
that [the surveyors company] no longer felt an inspection was necessary. No reason was 
given.
The surveyor was asked for her comments. Firstly, in August 2020, when she said:
On the 9th June when we made initial contact with [T], the roof area in question had
reportedly already been re-covered, therefore it was deemed that a site inspection would
not have provided any further clarity on the condition of the existing roof covering. Other
areas of the roof which were not included in the repair appeared not to have the same aged
roof covering, therefore these would not have provided any evidence or clarity.
And again, in August 2021, when she said:
A specific date was never booked in with the Insured. I phoned him to make an inspection 
as we had been requested to, however once the Insured informed me that the area in 
question had been re-covered (and the only other section of roof was not in the vicinity nor 
as I understand of the same age) I said to [Ts representative] on the phone that I would double check with my colleague and get back to him, and then I subsequently contacted him 
advising that we would no longer be visiting on this basis.
We deemed a physical inspection to be unsuitable given that the area we were asked to 
inspect had been disturbed and would not accurately represent what was previously there.
T and the building surveyors recollections differ  T thinks an appointment was made and 
then cancelled, while the building surveyor thinks one was discussed but not made because 
of the repairs. I find its most likely there was a misunderstanding. As set out above, T said, 
on 19 May 2020, that repairs had started. T and the building surveyor spoke on 9 June 2020 
 about three weeks later. So, while I accept T considered an inspection would still have 
been worthwhile, I can also understand why its likely the building surveyor considered one 
wouldnt be.
In any case, as set out above, there was no inspection and there can be no inspection now. 
I therefore must decide the complaint on the information that is available. If the lack of an 
in-person inspection meant there was no  or very little  evidence, then I might conclude 
that Baptist didnt do enough to justify its decision to decline the claim. But there is evidence. 
There are the opinions of the experts, the photographs and the wider circumstances, such 
as what is known of the roof and the repairs. I accept T say the photographs werent enough 
for the loss adjuster and the building surveyor to reach their conclusions. But they have both 
said they felt they had enough information to reach their conclusions and I find the 
photographs insightful in gauging the condition of the roof.
2.The damage to the exterior
T have challenged some of the findings in my provisional decision. They say, in summary:
- No matter when their expert reviewed the roof, he would have been able to assess the 
likely cause of the damage and the potential inadequacy of the guttering. And the 
refurbishment included a redirection of the flow of the runoff water to reduce the burden 
on the gutters.
- While the damage was in one area, the whole roof was replaced because otherwise 
there wouldnt have been a guarantee from the roofing company and future insurance 
cover would have been invalidated.
- The temporary fixes I referred to were ongoing regular maintenance and part of good 
property management. Baptist cant have it both ways - if no temporary fixes had been 
made, it would have claimed the roof had been neglected.
The key question here is, and has always been, were the storm conditions the main cause of 
the damage? Im still not persuaded they were. 
I accept Ts contractor may have made some changes to the drainage system as part of the 
refurbishment. But that doesnt mean the storm caused the damage. If the guttering/runoff 
system wasnt as capable as it should have been, then I must question why this storm(s), 
which didnt involve an unusual amount of rainfall, caused damage, and a previous one 
didnt.
If, as T claims, only part of the roof was damaged, and the rest was in a reasonable 
condition, I find it more likely than not T would have arranged a repair to the damaged part. 
Instead, it agreed to an extensive refurbishment. Im not persuaded it would have done so 
solely to benefit from a guarantee or insurance cover. I find it more likely the whole roof needed refurbishing because it was old and worn, which is supported by the opinions of the 
loss adjuster and the building surveyor, and by my own review of the photographs. 
Regular maintenance is important. But a roof cant be patched up indefinitely. No 
maintenance history is available, and the building surveyors opinion was that the 
repairs/maintenance looked dated. I agree they do from looking at the photographs. And I 
find the building surveyors comments  that liquid waterproofing (as used on Ts roof) is 
commonly used when the roof is at (or close to) the end of its life to get a little more time out 
of it  to be persuasive.
Having reconsidered all the information available to me, I still find its most likely the roof 
needed updating, and the weather conditions in February 2020 simply highlighted this. I 
therefore remain of the opinion it was fair and reasonable for Baptist to decline the claim 
under the storm damage part of the policy. 
And, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I still consider Baptist dealt with the 
claim under the accidental damage part of the policy fairly.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman