DRN-3410848
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited (Legal & General) 
updated her ex husbands pension policy with her new address following conversations she 
had about a home insurance policy with Legal & General. 
What happened
Mrs G and her ex husband (Mr G) had a home insurance policy with Legal & General. The 
main policyholder was Mr G. The policy was renewed on 1 January 2021. The payments 
were made monthly by direct debit. Mr G also has a personal pension with Legal & General, 
as does Mrs G.  
Mrs G telephoned Legal & General on 18 January 2021 because she was moving to a new 
address. She wanted to discuss options for the home insurance policy. Initially she wanted 
to see if the policy could be transferred to her new address. The call handler took details 
from Mrs G but said hed need to consult with a colleague as there was going to be a gap 
between when cover on the existing property would cease and cover for the new property 
would start. 
The call handler then called Mrs G back and told her that the existing policy would need to 
be cancelled. He said confirmation the policy had been cancelled would be sent to Mrs Gs 
new address which shed given the call handler whod updated the correspondence screen. 
And her contact details (including her mobile phone number which shed also given to the 
call handler) would be passed to another department whod be in contact about insurance on 
the new property. Confirmation that the existing policy had been cancelled would be sent to 
Mrs Gs new address. 
Legal & General also updated Mr Gs personal pension policy with Mrs Gs new address. 
But Mrs G was moving to a new address as she and Mr G had separated. She didnt want 
him to know her new address. She said shed gone to great lengths to make sure he couldnt 
find out where she was moving to. Shed asked for a quote for insurance on her new home 
and somehow Mr Gs personal pension policy had been updated with her new address, 
which shed never given permission for. 
Mrs G complained to Legal & General. 
Legal & General didnt uphold the complaint. Amongst other things Legal & General said that 
Mrs G, when asked to complete the security questions, started to give Mr Gs details; during 
the call shed referred to him as her husband; and she hadnt explained they were 
separated. Had she made Legal & General aware of that and that she didnt want him to 
know her new address, a different procedure wouldve been followed. As things stood, he 
was the main policyholder for the home insurance policy and, when the correspondence 
section for that joint policy was amended, the address information for his pension policy was 
automatically amended. 
Mrs G remained unhappy and referred her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She wrote to Mrs G on 13 March 
2022. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed that, during the call, Mrs G 
hadnt made Legal & General aware that she was moving because she was separating from 
Mr G. He was there when Mrs G made the call and when shed provided her new details. It 
didnt seem she was particularly concerned about ensuring he didnt have her new address. 
Mrs G was very unhappy with what the investigator had said. She said shed never held 
back the fact that Mr G had been there with her when shed the call. She didnt think Legal & 
General would speak to her for data protection reasons as she wasnt the main policyholder 
and she hadnt realised she was named on the policy. 
She explained that, on the day, they were both at the house as they were moving out. Mr G 
had made her a coffee and theyd spoken. She knew she wouldnt have to contact him again 
and hed have no idea where she was moving too. She had to keep things civil so she could 
get everything done quickly and get away. She added that, when shed given her new 
address, shed walked away and made sure Mr G couldnt hear her. Legal & General didnt 
say that any other accounts in her name or his would be updated. The onus shouldnt be on 
her to explain her personal situation. Legal & General should tell its customers what it was 
going to do to give them an opportunity to say if that shouldnt happen.
As agreement wasnt reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
Im sorry that Mrs G has waited longer than wed have liked to reach this final stage in our 
process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats happened is very unfortunate and Mrs G has my sympathy. I can see why she 
wouldnt necessarily have expected a pension policy held in Mr Gs sole name to be updated 
with her new address when shed made enquiries about changes to a household insurance 
policy which was jointly held by her and Mr G. 
I understand that some banks and major providers have a system in place which updates 
everything across all sections of its business. Thats designed to make things easier for 
customers who might have multiple products (for example, a mortgage, insurance policies, 
savings and pension plans) and to save them the bother of having to notify different divisions 
of the same business about changes of address or other details. 
And we do sometimes see complaints where a consumer feels theyve been disadvantaged 
or inconvenienced by having to notify changed details again when theyve already told the 
business about a new address or similar. I dont criticise Legal & General for having in place 
a system thats aimed at cutting down on administrative time for both it and its customers. 
I dont think Mrs G disagrees. Her point is that Legal & General shouldve told her what 
would happen and given her the chance to say if that wasnt what she wanted. Mrs G 
couldve then explained further the circumstances so the change of address wouldnt have 
been updated to Mr Gs pension policy. I think thats a fair comment and something that 
Legal & General might want to bear in mind going forwards. 
But I dont think, because Legal & General didnt point that out, that must mean Legal & 
General has done something wrong or treated Mrs G unfairly. I think it depends on what she said to Legal & General. The policy named both her and Mr G. I think Legal & General 
needed to be careful that it was a change of address for both of them. So Ive considered if it 
was reasonable for Legal & General to proceed on the basis that was the case. 
Mrs G has explained why she made the call when Mr G was there  he was the main 
policyholder and she thought Legal & General would need to speak to him. But as Mrs G 
was named on the policy she was also a policyholder and so Legal & General could speak to 
her direct.
Ive listened very carefully to the call. There were in fact two calls, both on the same day. In 
between the calls the call handler checked with a colleague as there was going to be a gap 
between the insurance on the existing property being cancelled and cover for the new 
property being required. From that call its clear the call handler thought Mrs G was speaking 
on behalf of herself and Mr G and that the change of address was for both of them and 
theyd both be moving out of the existing property the following day. 
During both of the calls it wouldve been apparent to the call handler that Mr G was present. I 
dont think theres anything obvious in the calls - the content, tone or anything else  which 
might have put the call handler on notice that any change of address wouldnt be for both 
policyholders. 
During one of the calls the call handler asked if he could take down the house number and 
post code for the new property. Mrs G said of course you can and explained it was a house 
name which she spelled out before going on to give the first part of the postcode. At that 
point Mr G is heard to be saying that hes made Mrs G a coffee. She thanks him for that 
before going on to give the second part of the postcode, saying the street or road name that 
should come up. Mrs G then realised that the second part of the post code shed given was 
incorrect. She repeated the first part of the post code and corrected the last part  the 
number and two letters. She said the last part again in response to the call handler asking 
for confirmation.  
The discussion about the new address, including the correct post code was quite prolonged. 
Although shes said she moved away to give her new address, it seems Mr G was in the 
vicinity for the duration of the calls. There doesnt seem to be any hesitancy on Mrs Gs part 
in giving her new address, spelling it out and correcting the post code which Mrs G then 
repeated. 
Mrs G did reference herself throughout the calls for example she said Im (as opposed to 
were moving out of the property in the next few days and that she could sort out a new 
policy when I (not we) move in. But I dont think thats enough of itself to say that Legal & 
General shouldve checked and when Mrs G gave no indication that she was speaking other 
than on behalf of herself and Mr G.  
I also bear in mind that, when Mrs G initially contacted Legal & General, she said she was 
looking to transfer the policy to her new address. That didnt prove possible (due it seems to 
the historic nature of the policy and because there was going to be a gap between the date 
of moving out of the old property and into the new one). Mr G was the main policyholder. I 
think transferring the policy would imply, aside from the new address, other details would 
remain the same, including that the policy was still going to cover both Mrs G and Mr G and 
theyd both be moving to the same new address. If, going forwards, it was only Mrs G who 
was to be covered, Mr G would need to be removed from the policy. But there was no 
suggestion that was the case or any discussion about that. So again I can see why the call 
handler understood that Mrs G was sorting out insurance for both her and Mr G. 
As Ive said I think what happened was unfortunate. I know Mrs G will be disappointed but, on balance, Im not going to say that Legal & General did anything wrong here.   
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman