DRN-4178875
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Society of Lloyd's trading as Lloyd's of London declined their 
claim for malicious damage on their property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a property insurance policy that was underwritten by Lloyds. This was for 
a property they owned and rented out to a tenant. In May 2022 they made a claim for 
malicious damage after attending the property and finding a cannabis farm had been set up. 
Lloyds declined the claim. It said the following exclusions to the malicious damage cover 
applied:
c) for loss or damage which your lodgers or tenants have caused, allowed, chosen to 
overlook or not reported to the police
d) for loss or damage caused by any person lawfully on the premises
e) for loss or damage unless involving forcible and violent entry to or exit from the property 
or by deception.
It said that the damage had been caused by the tenant and therefore cover wouldnt be 
provided under the policy.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with this. They said when they attended the property in May they 
found a person who wasnt the tenant and therefore were there unlawfully. And they said 
there was evidence of forced entry to the back door, so they didnt think the exclusion had 
been fairly applied. 
They made a complaint but Lloyds didnt uphold it so they brought it to this service. 
Our investigator thought Lloyds had acted fairly by declining the claim. He said while he 
didnt agree the individual was there lawfully, he thought it was most likely the tenant knew 
about the use of the property and allowed it, so thought the exclusion would apply. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They said it was clear that the person who was at the property 
when they inspected it was there unlawfully and had broken in. And Lloyds had failed to 
properly assess the evidence theyd provided to prove this. 
Lloyds agreed with the outcome. However it thought that exclusion d relating to a person 
lawfully on the property, would also fairly apply as they said Mr and Mrs C had initially said 
the damage was caused by the tenant, and they had no reason not to take their first 
account.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt the role of this service to decide what happened in the circumstances of a claim. 
Instead, its for us to consider the action taken by the insurer and decide if it has acted fairly 
and reasonably.
When an insurance claim is made, its for the insured to show that an insured event has 
taken place  thats something that is covered by the policy. Then its for the insurer to either 
accept the claim or show that an exclusion applies. Here Lloyds has said the following three 
exclusions would apply:
c) for loss or damage which your lodgers or tenants have caused, allowed, chosen to 
overlook or not reported to the police
d) for loss or damage caused by any person lawfully on the premises
e) for loss or damage unless involving forcible and violent entry to or exit from the property 
or by deception.
However for me to say it has fairly declined Mr and Mrs Cs claim I only need to be satisfied 
that one exclusion fairly applies. As thats enough to say the claim wouldnt be covered.
Here, there has been a lot of disagreement about whether the cannabis farm was set up by 
a person who was lawfully on the premises and whether they used forcible entry to gain 
access to the property. However if Im satisfied the first part of the exclusion applies  c 
above  then this would be enough for me to say Lloyds acted fairly by declining the claim 
overall. 
Ive considered the series of events thats been described by Mr and Mrs C. Theyve 
explained that for many months they had been in touch with their tenant by phone but he 
had been evasive when theyd tried to arrange any visits to the property. And he had often 
said he was away on holiday, including when they visited in May 2022. In spite of this the 
tenant continued to pay rent and even expressed interest in extending the tenancy for 
another 24 months. 
Based on this it seems most likely that Mr and Mrs Cs tenant was at the very least aware of 
the illegal activity happening at the property. As he didnt want visits to take place for some 
time before the discovery of the farm, but was happy to continue the tenancy. And if he 
hadnt been aware of the activity it seems most likely that he would have allowed Mr and Mrs 
C to visit or for their appointed estate agents to attend to value the property. I therefore think 
this is enough to fairly say that even if the tenant wasnt present at the time of the discovery 
of the damage, the tenant allowed the activity to take place. So I think Lloyds has done 
enough to show that exclusion c above applies and therefore has acted fairly by declining 
the claim.
Because Im satisfied that exclusion c fairly applies, Ive not gone on to consider the other 
exclusions, as this alone is enough to say Lloyds fairly declined the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman