DRN-3993063
The complaint
Mr B complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has terminated an 
incapacity claim he made on a group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Im not going to set it out 
in detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
Mr B was insured under his employers group income protection insurance policy. In 2012, 
he made an incapacity claim, due to severe back problems. At this point, L&G assessed the 
claim in line with Mr Bs own occupation definition of a disabled member. L&G accepted 
the claim and paid benefit. In 2014, Mr Bs employment was terminated and while the claim 
remained in payment, the definition switched to suited occupation, in line with the policy 
terms.
During the relevant period, Mr B underwent a number of surgeries and treatments. He was 
also prescribed medication to try and relieve his symptoms of pain, including tramadol; 
gabapentin; amitriptyline and sleeping medication.
In 2019, Mr B underwent a functional capacity assessment (FCA). In summary, this 
assessment concluded that Mr B had demonstrated some physical capacity to return to 
some elements of part-time, sedentary work. But the assessor concluded that Mr B suffered 
from fatigue and cognitive symptoms which would prevent him from carrying out productive 
work tasks.
Subsequently, in late August 2021, L&G asked Mr B to attend a further FCA. In brief, this 
concluded that Mr B was able to demonstrate that he had adequate functional capacity to 
return to a suited occupation or other sedentary role. It also considered surveillance and a 
review of Mr Bs online activities it had had carried out around the same time. L&G 
concluded that Mr B no longer met the policy definition of a disabled member and it 
terminated his claim with effect from February 2022.
Mr B was unhappy with L&Gs position. He queried why his cognitive function hadnt been 
considered, as he continued to suffer cognitive symptoms, which he associated with the 
medications he took. L&Gs medical officer reviewed Mr Bs case but maintained the claims 
decision. So Mr B asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think L&G had shown itd been entitled to terminate Mr Bs claim. 
Thats because he didnt think itd demonstrated that Mr B no longer met the policy definition
of a disabled member. He accepted that the 2021 FCA showed that Mr B was physically 
capable of returning to work. But it didnt appear thered been an assessment of his cognitive 
abilities, as thered been in 2019. And while he considered the medical officers comments, 
he thought these were more generalised than referring specifically to Mr B. Overall, he didnt 
think that L&G had demonstrated that Mr B was cognitively capable of returning to work. So 
he recommended that L&G should reinstate Mr Bs claim, pay backdated benefit and add 
interest to the settlement.
L&G disagreed with the investigator. It subsequently arranged a neurological assessment 
with a neurological consultant to assess Mr Bs cognitive capabilities. The consultant 
provided their report in December 2022. L&G would like me to take the findings of this report 
into account when reaching my decision.
Mr B isnt happy with the consultants findings and would like me to ensure that L&G allows 
him to ask the consultant further questions.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 February 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think L&G had shown it was fair to terminate Mr Bs claim. I said:
First, I think its important that I set out the parameters of this decision. I am solely 
considering whether it was fair and reasonable for L&G to terminate Mr Bs claim in February 
2022, based on the medical evidence it had available at that time. I will not be taking into 
account the neurological assessment which was carried out in December 2022, as that 
necessarily couldnt have been relied upon by L&G when it decided to terminate the claim. 
This is a new and current piece of evidence; which L&G may wish to take into account when 
it carries out a review of the claim. In my view, for me to reach a decision on this piece of 
evidence would mean Id effectively handled the claim and made a new claims decision on 
L&Gs behalf. That isnt my role and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to do so.
I appreciate Mr B has questions about the neurological assessment. As Ive explained, I 
wont be taking that assessment into account as part of this decision. Neither will I be 
compelling L&G to allow Mr B to pose further questions to the neurological consultant here. 
If Mr B is unhappy with any action L&G decides to take as a result of the new report or how it 
handles his claim in the future, he will need to make a new and separate complaint about 
that issue.
As the investigator explained, this claim was in payment for a period stretching almost a 
decade. There is extensive medical and other evidence and both parties have provided 
detailed submissions. Id like to reassure both parties that Ive read and carefully thought 
about all theyve said and sent us. In reaching my decision though, I havent commented on 
each point thats been raised and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on 
what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Bs policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether L&G 
treated Mr B fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the insurance 
contract. Theres no dispute that following the termination of Mr Bs employment in 2014, the 
policy switched from an own occupation definition of a disabled member to the suited 
occupation definition, in line with the policy terms. So Ive looked closely at the relevant 
policy definition which says that a disabled member is:
in the opinion of Legal & General, is incapacitated by a specific, diagnosed illness or injury 
so that he is unable to undertake any occupation which Legal & General considers to be 
appropriate to his experience, training or education, and is not engaged in any other 
occupation, other than one which gives rise to payment of partial benefit.
Page 5 of the policy sets out the Duration of Benefit. This says:Subject to production to Legal & General of evidence of the Insured Member's entitlement to 
benefit, in such form and at such times as Legal & General may reasonably require, and to 
the remaining provisions of this Section, payment of Member's Benefit will continue so long 
as the Insured Member is a Disabled Member but not in any event after Benefit Termination 
Date or, if earlier, the death of the Insured Member.
In my view, L&Gs terms make it clear that it will continue to pay benefit, for as long as its 
satisfied that a policy beneficiary remains a disabled member. Its clear that whilst L&G 
accepted that Mr B was entitled to policy benefit for many years, it now considers that hes 
no longer incapacitated and is able to return to work in a suited occupation. So Ive thought 
about whether this was a fair conclusion for L&G to draw.
It's for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to show that they have a valid claim on 
their policy. However, once a claim is in payment, it becomes the insurers responsibility to 
show that the policyholder no longer meets the policy terms. Generally, its fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to periodically review income protection claims and request 
medical evidence to determine whether a claim remains payable. So I think L&G was 
reasonably entitled to commission FCA reports during the life of the claim.
Ive looked closely at the FCA report of August 2021. This, taken together with the 
surveillance images, appears to be the evidence upon which L&G has placed most weight. 
Its clear that the report concluded:
The functional abilities demonstrated by Mr B are the very minimum he is able to perform 
safely over a normal working day.
This conclusion was reached based on a range of physical tasks Mr B carried out during the 
FCA. The assessor recorded consistencies and inconsistencies in the testing. While the 
assessor noted that Mr B reported confusion, tiredness, poor memory, slurred speech, 
difficulty in concentration and anxiety, it doesnt appear that they made any specific 
observations about Mr Bs cognitive abilities.
However, in 2019, the relevant assessor had found that while Mr B had some physical 
capacity to return to work:
It is Mr Bs fatigue and cognition that would prevent him from undertaking productive work 
tasks and this was evident in his deterioration in function over the duration of the evaluation 
(increased word finding difficulty, increased distractibility, inability to attend and increase in 
slurred speech observed directly). Based on the results of the FCA, Mr B would be 
anticipated to have significant difficulty in completing work tasks that require working 
memory, attention to detail, multitasking or high level thinking skills. It is the evaluators 
opinion that Mr B would be unable to undertake re-training or return to work unless his 
cognitive/fatigue symptoms significantly improved.
I think whether L&G has demonstrated, on balance, that Mr B was no longer cognitively 
incapacitated at the point it terminated the claim is the key consideration here. It seems to 
me that both FCA reports demonstrated that Mr B had at least some physical capacity to 
return to suited roles  both in 2019 and 2021. But in 2021, as Ive mentioned, the FCA
made no direct observations on Mr Bs cognitive symptoms, despite that being recorded as 
the main reason why he wasnt fit to work and remained incapacitated in 2019. Mr B 
continued to report such symptoms, and his treatment regime appears to have continued to 
include broadly similar medications. So I think it wouldve been reasonable and appropriate 
for L&G to have assessed whether Mr B remained incapacitated due to cognitive symptoms 
as part of the 2021 FCA.As a result of Mr Bs appeal on this point, L&G asked its medical officer for their opinion. 
While the medical officer referenced Mr Bs GP reviewing the long-term use of tramadol, 
their observations focused more on Mr Bs physical fitness to work. So I dont think it went 
far enough to show, on balance, that Mr B was no longer cognitively incapacitated at the 
time L&G decided to terminate the claim.
The medical officers evidence of September 2022 was more focused on this point, and Ive 
looked at this evidence closely. Ive set out what I think are the most relevant extracts below:
Amitriptyline and gabapentin are medications commonly issued to assist with nerve-related 
pain, which are well-tolerated by most people. Tramadol is also indicated for nerve-related 
pain, but as a controlled drug, is less commonly issued on a long-term basis, in recent years.
With regards to tramadol, the prescription states To avoid tolerance take medication a max 
of 5 days a week. This confirms that this medication is an adjunct to Mr Bs daily nerve- 
related pain medication of amitriptyline and gabapentin and he has 2 days a week without 
this medication, which is reassuring.
None of these three medications are associated with cognitive impairment or side-effects 
that would preclude work for the vast majority of people, in my experience, whether 
surgeons or insurance professionals
Based on my own clinical experience as a GP and Occupational Physician, there are several 
people with chronic pain who take the four medications above (including at higher doses) 
and both live (including driving safely) and work successfully (especially in sedentary 
occupations), often with reasonable workplace adjustments, in line with current legislation 
(such as reduced productivity targets, more frequent breaks, altered working hours, e.g. 
starting later), tailored to the individual and reviewed as needed.
I note this policy is against the suited occupation criteria and I have evaluated this case on 
an individual basis for Mr B, given that there is no medical condition or medication that, in 
itself, would indicate an inability to work (e.g. stroke associated with permanent cognitive 
deficit or high-dose morphine that may preclude safe working).
Indeed, I am not aware of any single or combined medication list that automatically 
precludes work for an individual in non-regulated occupations (most people  by regulated 
occupations, I am referring to pilots, train drivers etc who face a different set of standards for 
fitness to work), having several patients with stronger opioids than tramadol, e.g. morphine, 
and conditions such as insulin-controlled diabetes etc continuing to work safely, following 
individual assessment of fitness to work, with workplace adjustments as needed.
I reiterate my clinical opinion that, having noted his current medication list, evidence from his 
treating specialist and the objective evidence of his functional ability, Mr B is capable of 
working safely in a suited occupation.
As the investigator explained, were not medical experts and our role is to assess the 
medical evidence provided by medical professionals who are experts in their field. Im 
grateful to the medical officer for their detailed, expanded comments and Ive weighed these 
up carefully. What I do note though is that while the medical officer has been able to provide 
an objective view of Mr Bs medication list and his functional capacity, this still remains 
somewhat general in nature. The medical officers view wasnt based on an in-person 
examination or assessment of Mr B, where his presentation and symptoms could be 
recorded first-hand. And whilst most people might not experience cognitive symptoms 
alongside Mr Bs condition and medication, it appears in 2019, it was accepted that he 
himself did.I say that because, as Ive set out above, the 2019 assessor, who did have the opportunity to 
observe Mr B, noted that he was unfit to work as a result of his cognitive symptoms and 
would be unable to return to work unless his cognitive/fatigue symptoms significantly 
improved.
In my view, there isnt enough specific and focused medical evidence from the point the 
claim was terminated in February 2022, to show that Mr Bs cognitive symptoms had 
improved to the point he was no longer incapacitated. Given Mr B raised concerns about 
L&Gs decision with regard to his cognitive symptoms at that point, it was open to it to have 
referred him for neurological testing at that time. Instead, it chose not to do so and 
maintained its claims decision. Given the 2019 findings and Mr Bs reported symptoms, it 
may have been reasonable for it to have organised such a referral at that point.
Id add too that I find the surveillance evidence and online review of little relevance when 
considering whether Mr B was cognitively incapacitated. Mr B has maintained that he 
doesnt suffer from neurological symptoms constantly, and he says hes never been advised 
against driving. Nor do I find some use of social media forums and websites to be evidence 
that Mr B was no longer cognitively incapacitated in February 2022.
This means that currently, I dont think that L&G has shown that Mr B no longer met the 
policy definition of a disabled member in February 2022, when the claim was terminated. So 
I currently find that it needs to reinstate the claim with effect from February 2022 and pay Mr 
B backdated benefit, together with interest, up until the date of settlement. At that point, 
should L&G wish to retake the claims decision as part of a claim review, it may be entitled to 
do so. If Mr B is unhappy with any further reassessment of his claim, he may be able to bring 
a new complaint to us about that issue alone.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Mr B accepted my provisional findings and reiterated that he intended to follow up the latest 
neurologists report.
L&G didnt accept my provisional decision and Ive summarised its response:
L& maintained that the claims decision it made in February 2022 was fair and 
reasonable;
It maintained that I should take the December 2022 neurologists report into account. 
It said it was the best and most recent evidence of Mr Bs neurological state and it 
was entirely supportive of L&Gs claims decision in February 2022. It added that 
given the relatively short space of time between February and December 2022, the 
report was highly indicative of Mr Bs neurological state in February 2022;
L&G remained of the view that Mr B no longer met the definition of a disabled 
member. It pointed to the 2019 and 2021 FCA reports, which both concluded that Mr 
B was physically capable of returning to a suited occupation;
The findings of the FCA reports were supported by the surveillance evidence, which 
showed that Mr B could carry heavy boxes; drive and travel significant distances;
Neither of the FCA reports had been designed to specifically assess Mr Bs cognitive 
capacity. While the 2019 assessor had recorded that Mr B suffered from cognitive 
difficulties during the assessment, the 2021 assessor had made no such 
observations;The fact that Mr B was capable of driving and using his computer to post on internet 
forums indicated that he could deal with the mental requirements of a suited 
occupation for significant portions of the day;
Subsequent to the February 2022, L&G has obtained confirmation from Mr B that he 
helped to maintain a website for a family members business and that he hadnt been 
advised to stop driving, either by a doctor or the DVLA;
It relied upon its medics conclusions that given Mr Bs current medication list; he was 
capable of working safely in a suited occupation;
L&G reiterated that it believed the December 2022 report should be taken into 
account and should not be dismissed; as it was cogent evidence of Mr Bs mental 
state at the time of the February 2022 decision. It felt it wholly validated the earlier 
medical assumptions and L&Gs decision at the time;
It requested that I reconsider its medics opinion and the December 2022 report as 
sufficient to indicate, on balance, that Mr B had been able to return to a suited 
occupation in February 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im grateful to L&G for its detailed further submissions, I still dont find 
that it was fair to it to terminate Mr Bs claim in February 2022 and Ill explain why.
First, I must reiterate that I have not taken the December 2022 report into account when 
making this decision. It remains the case that this piece of evidence was obtained around 10 
months after L&G terminated the claim. This is a period of almost a year. I make no finding 
on the outcome of the report. But Im not persuaded that the neurologists assessment was 
carried out so promptly after the claims decision was made that I could reasonably find that it 
most likely reflected Mr Bs cognitive abilities in February 2022. As Ive explained above, this 
piece of evidence simply wasnt available when L&G decided to terminate the claim. And I 
dont find that it can fairly retrospectively rely upon it to support a claims decision made 10 
months earlier.
With that said, under the terms of this policy, L&G is entitled to review the claim to decide 
whether or not Mr B continues to meet the contractual definition of a disabled member. So 
the December 2022 is a piece of new and current evidence it may wish to take into account 
when it reviews the claim. 
L&G refers to the fact that both the 2019 and 2021 FCA reports found that Mr B was 
physically capable to returning to a suited occupation. As I set out in my provisional decision, 
I dont dispute that both assessors made the finding that Mr B was capable of at least some 
physical work. Indeed, were this claim to turn only on Mr Bs physical ability to return to work, 
its likely that Id have concluded that L&G had acted fairly. However, irrespective of whether 
the FCA reports were designed to test Mr Bs cognitive ability or not, its still the case that the 
2019 assessor did assess Mr Bs cognitive ability. They concluded that he would be unable 
to return to work unless his cognitive and fatigue symptoms significantly improved. L&G 
doesnt appear to have disputed this finding and continued to pay benefit.
It's clear that the 2021 FCA didnt assess Mr Bs cognitive capacity and instead focused on 
his physical abilities. As Ive set out above, given Mr B reported similar symptoms and as his treatment regime had remained broadly the same, I still think it might have been reasonable 
and appropriate for L&G to assess whether Mr B remained incapacitated due to cognitive 
symptoms at that point. Given it didnt do so, there was no direct, personally-tailored, 
functional assessment of Mr Bs cognitive capacity at the point the claim was terminated.
L&Gs medic has provided a detailed opinion as to why he believes that Mr B was cognitively 
capable of work. Id reassure L&G again that I did consider the medics clinical opinion very 
carefully. But its still the case that the medics opinion is more general in nature and focuses 
on how the majority of people may be affected (or not) by the medication Mr B is prescribed. 
While this evidence is useful, the 2019 FCA report found that Mr B himself did experience 
cognitive symptoms and was unable to work as a result. Its clear the FCA assessors 
findings were based on a personal, subjective review of Mr B, rather than an objective 
consideration of how such medications may affect people more widely. So I find the 2019 
FCA report to be a more persuasive piece of medical evidence overall than the medics 
opinion.  
Theres no dispute that Mr B drives, can lift boxes and interacts on the internet. As I 
explained in my provisional decision though, I simply dont think this is persuasive evidence 
that Mr B was fit to work in February 2022. I say that because as both FCA reports found, Mr 
B was physically capable of working. And by Mr Bs own account, his neurological symptoms 
arent continuous. So I dont find the fact that he is able to drive, help out on a website or 
engage in internet forums show its most likely that he was no longer cognitively 
incapacitated in February 2022.
Overall, in my view, I dont find that L&G has provided enough evidence to show, on 
balance, that Mr B no longer met the contractual definition of a disabled member in February 
2022. This means I dont think its shown it was reasonably entitled to terminate the claim. 
So I still find that it needs to reinstate the claim with effect from February 2022 and pay Mr B 
backdated benefit, together with interest, up until the date of settlement. At that point, should 
L&G wish to retake the claims decision as part of a claim review, it may be entitled to do so. 
If Mr B is unhappy with any further reassessment of his claim, he may be able to bring a new 
complaint to us about that issue alone.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Legal & General Assurance Society Limited to reinstate Mr Bs claim from the point it 
was terminated until the date of settlement. It must calculate and pay Mr B any backdated 
benefit payments due, and it must add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
each backdated payment was due until the date of settlement.
*If L&G considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest it should tell Mr B how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr B a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman