DRN-3031653
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr R says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. 
Mr Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Rs complaint. Ive 
noted that the account closed in 2003 and I have taken that into account in considering this 
complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Capital One made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out. I say this because Mr R got the cover when he called Capital One and was 
sold his credit card. Capital One has not provided a copy of the telephone call but I have 
seen the script the representative was supposed to follow during the call. If the script 
was followed, I think Mr R would have had to agree to the cover to get it and would have 
known he had a choice. So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, 
and in the absence of any detailed testimony from Mr R to the contrary, I think it most 
likely that Mr R agreed to the cover and knew he didnt have to.  
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R - so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr R enough clear and timely 
information so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr R. Mr R was eligible for the 
benefits of the cover and it would have paid out in the absence of company sick pay. And 
Mr R told us he had no other means he could have relied on  so I think the policy could 
have been useful to Mr R. And although Mr R says he had a medical condition many 
years before the policy was taken out, I dont think better information about the existing 
medical exclusion wouldve caused him to change his mind about taking out the policy. I 
say this because the condition occurred in 1995, 6 years before the sale. And Mr R has 
provided no detailed testimony about the condition and no testimony that it caused him 
ongoing issues such as to have cost any time off work in the intervening years before the 
sale. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr R would have declined the 
cover had Capital One done anything more.
 
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Rs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So, I think he would have 
still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr R would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Capital One should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Mr Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Rs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman