DRN-2555419
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) changed his account terms without telling him and 
is unhappy with internet banking log in processes.
What happened
Mr M had a Classic Account with TSB. This changed to a Spend and Save account in 
September 2020. He used internet banking but had to use one-time passwords frequently.
Mr M complains that he wasnt advised of the change from Classic Account to Spend and 
Save account. Hed opted out of marketing emails. He said he wanted TSB to call him to 
explain the changes, rather than writing to him. He says he was always having to use one-
time passwords when logging onto internet banking. This was inconvenient and suggests 
that TSBs systems are at fault.
TSB said a mailing was sent to all Classic Account customers early in 2020 to advise them 
of the change of name to Spend and Save. The changes also included some extra benefits. 
The changes were all positive ones and had no negative affect on Mr M  so they were 
acting within their terms and conditions in making the changes. The email was sent to all 
Classic Account customers  so Mr M shouldve received it. The use of one-time passwords 
is more common now as TSB (like all banks) had tightened their security processes. But if 
Mr M registered his device as a trusted one on internet banking  this would mean he would 
only have to use a one-time password once every 90 days.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said that even though Mr M had 
opted out of marketing communications  these were changes in Mr Ms product, and so 
they had to be advised to him. And it was reasonable for them to be sent in writing  rather 
than a call. TSB had told him that the mailing describing the changes were sent to all Classic 
Account customers  so Mr M shouldve received it. TSBs terms and conditions say that 
where new features are added to an account  as was the case here  no advanced notice 
is needed. But customer should be told within 30 days after the changes had happened  in 
this case, TSB did this as they sent emails in January 2020 and then in September 2020. On 
one-time passwords  it was for TSB to decide on its security measures. He was happy that 
TSB had explained the steps that Mr M could take to ensure his device was recognised  
and so the use of one-time passwords would be reduced.
Mr M asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M opted out of marketing emails. He says he wasnt advised early in 2020 about the 
changes to his Classic Account  and doesnt want it to be changed to a Spend and Save 
account. He says hes frustrated about having to use a one-time password often when he 
logs onto internet banking. He says this means theres a problem with TSBs systems.
The changes to TSBs Classic Account were made in September 2020. When TSB make a 
change to an account which is of benefit to customers  they do not have to give advanced 
notice. In this case, the Classic Account was being renamed Spend and Save  and was 
given added features.  So, in this case, TSB only had to tell customers within 30 days of the 
changes having been made  which they did  as mailing were sent in January 2020 and 
September 2020. The terms and conditions say: Add a new service to your accountWill 
we tell you before we make it? NoWell tell you either: personally within 30 days of the 
change (or) by publishing details within three days of the changeYou can close your 
account at any time and we wont charge you.
So  TSB acted within its terms and conditions - they wrote to Mr M in January 2020 and 
September 2020. Mr M says he didnt receive an email in January 2020. TSB have told us 
that all account holders were emailed  but cant provide specific evidence of the email that 
was sent to Mr M. But in any case  even if he didnt get the email in January 2020, TSB 
complied with their terms and conditions by writing to customers in September 2020  and 
Mr M has told us that he got that.
Mr M has said hed opted out of marketing mails  but these changes were affecting the 
terms and conditions of his account, and so TSB had to let customers know about those  
and acted correctly. Mr M has said also that he would prefer to be called about the changes 
 but I dont think that we can expect TSB to do this. And - neither is it an effective way to let 
customers know about such changes.
Mr M is unhappy that he has to use one-time passwords frequently when logging onto 
internet banking. TSB have told us that if he registers his device as trusted when logging 
on, then he will only have to use a one-time password every 90 days. This seems 
reasonable to me. And its not for this service to tell TSB what its security measures should 
be  thats a matter for them.
So, while I can appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed by my decision, Im not going to 
ask TSB to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman