DRN-2906298
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P say St Andrew's Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P bought the policy in 2008 sometime after taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage in branch and the PPI policy through the post.
The policy provided covered Mr P and Mrs P jointly  on a 50/50 basis - for accident, 
sickness, and unemployment, together with carer support  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered to repay £1,287.14 a month towards Mr P and Mrs Ps mortgage 
balance, split evenly between them, in the event that one of them made a successful claim. 
At the time, it cost £76.46 a month. 
At the time, Mrs P was employed as a community nurse and was pregnant. She has told us 
she was entitled to six months full sick pay and six months half sick pay, together with 
Death-in-Service and redundancy benefits, from her employer. And it doesnt appear as if 
Mrs P had a medical condition at the time the policy was sold.
Mr P was employed as a warehouse operative. He has told us he was entitled to benefits 
from his employer if he couldnt work. Mr P appears not to have had a medical condition at 
the time of this sale either. 
Mr P and Mrs P also say they had a life policy and critical illness cover at the time of the 
sale. But these types of cover are different in purpose to a PPI policy.
St Andrews has provided evidence to show that the mortgage account started in 2008. 
Mr P and Mrs Ps representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr P and Mrs Ps representative says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on handling PPI 
complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr P and Mrs P wouldnt have taken 
out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr P and Mrs Ps representatives believe 
there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the most 
common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a successful 
claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low claims ratio. The 
common law duty of utmost good faith means St Andrews should have told Mr P and Mrs P 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have explained 
the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr P and Mrs P and the impact 
they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term transaction  cover would stop just at the time it would 
be most needed; and
The information Mr P and Mrs P received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of the 
cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr P and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr P and Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr P and Mrs Ps 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage. That means the unfair relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable.
This sale took place in 2008 after the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there have for some time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products such as PPI. There is much in common between the present statutory regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance, I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good industry practice. As 
a result, its appropriate for me to take them into account along with the relevant ICOBS 
rules and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC). It published The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers  the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum standards of good practice for its members to follow 
when selling insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
St Andrews, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than Registered 
Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/Direct Mail 
and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
The sale took place after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules (MCOB) are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage related matters, it also included some insurance-
related commitments. As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common 
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became a regulated activity in January 
2005, so St Andrews was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint.key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Mr P and Mrs P with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances. 
-Whether St Andrews gave Mr P and Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the 
main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr P and Mrs P, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr P and Mrs P 
suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that 
loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr P and Mrs P 
and St Andrews, Ive decided not to uphold Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr P and Mrs P know they had a choice?
St Andrews had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
St Andrews has provided a copy of the PPI direct mail application form which 
Mr and Mrs completed and returned for the PPI policy. I think this form makes it clear that 
the cover was optional. And they applied for the policy some years after taking out their 
mortgage so they would have known they didnt need the cover. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely Mr P and Mrs P knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did St Andrews provide advice?
The welcome pack Mr P and Mrs P received after taking out the PPI policy states that no 
advice was given. And both St Andrews and Mr P and Mrs P agree that this was the case. 
This means St Andrews didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr P and Mrs P. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
Mr P and Mrs P to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. the information
Im satisfied that Mr P and Mrs P were given a broad description of what the policy was 
intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if Mr P and Mrs P were 
unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the costs and monthly 
benefit. This information was included on the direct mail application form they received and 
completed.
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether St Andrews gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions or limitations before Mr P and Mrs P agreed to take out the 
policy. 
So I dont think St Andrews gave Mr P and Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mr P and Mrs Ps representative has raised 
a number of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr P and Mrs Ps. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have explained the 
low claims ratio  what Mr P and Mrs Ps representative considers to be poor value  and 
the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr P and Mrs P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr P and Mrs Ps representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer 
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr P and Mrs P have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that St Andrews ought to have done either. 
what effect did the shortcomings of St Andrews have on Mr P and Mrs P? To what extent 
did Mr P and Mrs P suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found St Andrews didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to 
Mr P and Mrs P. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr P and Mrs P suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must 
decide whether or not Mr P and Mrs P would have still taken out the policy, had St Andrews 
done things properly. Mr P and Mrs P say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe that I should presume this to 
be the case given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr P and Mrs P had to weigh up in their own minds the cost 
of the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of one of them not being able to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr P and Mrs P chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude they had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what 
Mr P and Mrs P thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which 
this differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr P and Mrs P have suffered 
any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr P and Mrs P were given about the cost and benefit was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as limitations and exclusions wasnt as 
clear as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr P and Mrs P thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr P and Mrs P knew about or 
ought to have known about before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those grounds after 
three-month payments had been made;
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mr P and Mrs P 
werent permanent employees.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr P and Mrs P be unable 
to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified them to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Mr P and Mrs P pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude 
that the policy was not as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr P and Mrs P 
from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about Mr P and Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. They were eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to 
them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest they would have been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr P and Mrs P 
didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions and were in permanent employment. So, I 
still think they had some good reasons to take the policy out.I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and some of the 
steps required in certain circumstances to make a disability claim for these conditions were 
more onerous than Mr P and Mrs P might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they 
would have expected to be able to make a disability claim without having to provide some 
evidence to support that claim. And while this limitation might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr P and Mrs P from taking out the policy, 
Mr P and Mrs P, in their circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it out. And I 
dont think that Mrs Ps pregnancy would have made the policy unsuitable for them either.
If Mr P and Mrs P had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable to do 
both their job and any similar gainful occupation which in the insurers view they might 
reasonably become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  although its 
possible they may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr P and Mrs P were unable 
(through disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
St Andrews may not have told Mr P and Mrs P that any claim they made would be limited to 
a 12-month period. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped 
for  but 12-months was a longer period than Mr P and Mrs P would have received full sick 
pay for and their statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12-
months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely Mr P and Mrs P would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit to them and 
would help them manage the consequences should they be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and ensure their home was not placed at risk and might potentially help 
preserve Mr P and Mrs Ps sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr P and Mrs P would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely they thought they were getting and provided benefits that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr P and Mrs P were made redundant, or unable to work 
through the accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that 
Mr P and Mrs P would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations 
on cover.
Mr P and Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr P and Mrs P wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mr P and Mrs Ps circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the 
position Mr P and Mrs P found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position 
they would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr P and Mrs P believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed 
to give proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr P and Mrs P in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken out 
the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy they 
were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, 
to conclude St Andrews should pay Mr P and Mrs P compensation, as that would put them 
in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Mr P and Mrs P think St Andrews misrepresented the terms of the policy 
in how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some 
of the business statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why St 
Andrews failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St Andrews gave 
Mr P and Mrs P, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect it to have met in 2008 when providing information about an insurance 
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr P and Mrs Ps representative says a court might 
take if it were to find St Andrews negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr P and Mrs P 
and about the remedy a court might award if it were to find that St Andrews had been in 
breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions 
about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I 
think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set 
out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr P and Mrs P in a better position 
than if everything had happened as it should have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman