DRN-3226521
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) caused delays in refunding 
her a credit payment made into her closed bank account.
What happened
Miss K held a bank account with Halifax which was closed by their recoveries team on 16
October 2019. The account had a debit balance of £486.60 which Miss K was repaying with 
a monthly payment of £26, until the outstanding balance was cleared. 
On 28 August 2020, Miss K's previous employer made a payment of £3,832.89 into this 
account unaware the account was closed. Miss K visited a Halifax branch on 1 October 2020 
and 18 November 2020. Both times Miss K was told that there were no records of funds 
being received into her account and was provided with letters confirming this. 
Miss K called Halifax on 5 January 2021, and she was informed that the funds had in fact 
been credited into her account which cleared the debit balance. The remaining amount was 
then returned to her. 
Unhappy with this, Miss K complained to Halifax. She said she had raised an additional 
dispute against her previous employer, where relations were already strained due to issues 
unrelated to this complaint. She also explained the impact this had on her.
Halifax explained Miss Ks account could still receive credits as she was repaying an 
outstanding balance. And that the branch staff shouldve contacted the recoveries team to 
find the money, as they couldnt see information about the account. They apologised and 
paid £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss K, and 8% 
interest for the time she didnt have access to her money.
Our investigator said Halifax had resolved the complaint fairly and in line with our approach. 
He didnt ask Halifax to pay any further compensation. Miss K disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Halifax received the payment, it cleared Miss Ks outstanding balance and left her a 
credit balance of £3,680.99. In this situation, Id expect Halifax to return the remaining funds 
without unnecessary delay and to do so, make reasonable attempts to contact Miss K.
Halifaxs system notes show they sent Miss K a letter on 2 September 2020. They explained 
a final payment of £3,832.89 had been received and that her account had been repaid in full. 
On 23 September 2020, Halifax sent another letter asking Miss K to get in touch to receive a 
refund. The system notes also show a follow up letter was sent on 14 October 2020, 
unfortunately a copy of this letter isnt available.
I appreciate Miss K says she didnt receive any correspondence from Halifax, and they didnt 
mention theyd tried to contact her when she raised a complaint. While I dont dispute this, it 
doesnt mean Halifax didnt send the letters.
I can see Halifax wrote to Miss K using the address they held on file. They also initiated a 
trace on 5 November 2020 to check Miss Ks address, which also confirmed the same 
address Halifax used to write to her.
I dont doubt Miss K when she says she didnt receive the letters, but Im satisfied Halifax 
sent them to her. And I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible if Miss K didnt receive them.  
Miss K has also mentioned she had an open savings account, but I wouldnt expect Halifax 
to transfer the money into her savings account without her instructions to do so  as the 
credit payment was made into her bank account. 
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax made reasonable attempts to get in contact with Miss K 
regarding the credit payment into her account.
That said, I think Miss K has been let down by the poor customer service she received 
during her two branch visits. Ill explain why.
Its reasonable to expect Halifax to give Miss K correct information about any payments into 
her account. Halifax shouldve taken more care in dealing with Miss Ks query when locating 
the payment. 
Halifaxs failure to do so meant Miss K was wrongly led to believe that the payment made by 
her previous employer didnt credit her account. Ive thought about the impact this had on 
her.
Miss K was caused significant distress, upset, and worry which was aggravated by her 
mental health condition. She was already going through a difficult time financially and she 
was relying on these funds to meet her expenses. 
She was caused some embarrassment and there was further conflict with her previous 
employer due to disputing this payment. She was also inconvenienced considerably as she 
had to liaise with Halifax and her previous employer.
This impact lasted for over three months  from when Miss K first visited the branch to when 
she received her money.
Having carefully thought about how the poor service affected Miss K, Im satisfied £400 is 
fair and reasonable to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused. Halifax 
have also paid 8% simple interest for the time Miss K was deprived of the funds, which is 
what Id expect them to do.I appreciate Miss K feels she should be paid further compensation. But as well as taking into 
account the impact on her, Ive also considered that Halifax made reasonable attempts to 
contact Miss K, even if she didnt receive the letters they sent. 
With all of this in mind, Im satisfied £400 is fair and reasonable to compensate Miss K for 
the distress and inconvenience she was caused.
I know Miss K will be disappointed and I dont underestimate the impact on her, but all things 
considered, Im satisfied Halifax have resolved the complaint fairly. So, I wont be asking 
them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman