DRN-3124434
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way Sesame Limited (Sesame), trading as Better Protect,
handled her life assurance application. In particular, that it didnt pass on relevant
information about her medical history to the insurer.
What happened
In 2014 Mrs C took out a 30 year term level life assurance policy with a sum assured of 
£150,000 through an insurer, L. Mrs C applied for the policy using an insurance broker, 
Sesame  it was a non-advised sale.
In 2020 Mrs C applied to L for further critical illness cover and during the application it came
to light that the 2014 application contained inaccuracies. The 2014 application hadnt 
included full details of her mental health history. Mrs C had declared a history of 
anxiety/depression/stress for which she was taking medication. But she was also asked: 
Do you currently have or have you ever had: A mental illness that has resulted in any 
suicide attempt, suicidal thoughts, self harm or required hospital treatment or referral to a 
psychiatrist?
This was answered no. But Mrs Cs mental health history means the correct answer was 
yes. L was of the view this was a careless misrepresentation of Mrs Cs circumstances. 
It said it would never have offered her cover if it had all of the information it ought to have 
had and so it avoided (cancelled from the start) Mrs Cs policy and refunded her premiums.
Mrs C accepted the application answer was incorrect but stressed that she had told Sesame 
about her complete mental health history when she initially took out the policy. Given this, 
Mrs C raised a complaint with Sesame.
The original application phone call was no longer available, but Sesame didnt uphold the 
complaint based on the information in the application form.
Mrs C remained unhappy and asked our service to consider things. After reviewing the 
evidence, our investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to suggest Sesame had 
done anything wrong.
Mrs C didnt agree. She felt it was unreasonable that Sesame no longer had the call 
recording relating to her application and felt our service should require it to keep such 
records. She also said that there was evidence she did disclose her mental health problems 
within the application, and that this supported her account that she would have told Sesame 
about her complete mental health history. Because Mrs C didnt agree, this came to me for a 
decision.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach the same outcome as the 
investigator but for slightly different reasons. So, I shared my provisional findings with 
Sesame and Mrs C so both had the opportunity to make any comments or provide further 
evidence. My provisional findings were:
Firstly, I wanted to say that I was truly sorry to read about the very difficult circumstances 
Mrs C has found herself in. Id like to extend my deepest sympathies following the loss of her 
husband. I dont underestimate the additional upset and stress that the avoidance of her 
policy has caused.
My role here is to look at the evidence and to decide whether, on balance, it indicates that 
Sesame made a mistake. If so, I need to look at what would have happened, had a mistake 
not been made.
Mrs C applied for the policy over the telephone. Unfortunately, the call recording is no longer 
available. Whilst I appreciate this is frustrating for Mrs C, I dont think its unreasonable that 
Sesame no longer has this record given this occurred nearly seven years ago. Sesame has 
also explained that its agent, Better Protect, left the Sesame Network in 2015 and later went 
into administration.
I note Mrs C thinks our service should ensure Sesame retains such records. I think it would 
be helpful to explain that our services role is to investigate individual complaints brought to 
us by consumers. We dont regulate financial businesses and so we dont have a role, for 
example, in saying what processes Sesame should follow. This would be for the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who is the regulator of financial services. Here Sesame 
has explained why the call is no longer available and I think this is understandable in the 
circumstances.
It is difficult to establish exactly what happened without the call recording. However, where 
evidence is incomplete or conflicting, I need to decide whats more likely to have happened, 
on the balance of probabilities.
Mrs Cs recollection is that she told the broker several times about her own mental illness 
and is certain she wouldnt have lied. She has also said that family members were present 
and so she has two witnesses who recall she told Sesame she was depressed. Mrs C noted 
the application showed shed declared her history of mental health problems which supports 
her account she also would have told Sesame about everything.
Sesame has said that the application form would have been completed at that time  so its 
contemporaneous evidence. And it says no in response to the relevant question. 
Sesame also highlighted that Mrs C was later sent a copy of the questions and answers by L 
when the policy was accepted. Mrs C was asked to check her answers to ensure they were 
correct and she didnt seek to make any amendments with either it or L.
Id like to be clear that I dont think anyone is suggesting Mrs C has lied. What L has said 
here is that the answer was incorrect and that there was a failure to take reasonable care  
but that this was not deliberate.
Its clear that Mrs C made disclosures about her mental health when speaking to the 
Sesame representative  her depression is included in her application form. And this shows 
she was taking some care with her application. But this alone doesnt persuade me that she 
provided a complete picture of her health history, in particular that she answered yes to the 
above question. Whilst I appreciate Mrs Cs family also recall her depression being 
mentioned, this isnt in dispute  the question here is whether Mrs C told Sesame about a 
history of suicide attempt, suicidal thoughts, self-harm or required hospital treatment or 
referral to a psychiatrist?. I would also note that where a complaint like this has been raised, 
I cant ignore the fact its in Mrs Cs interest for her family to support her account. So, I dont 
think I can fairly attach much weight to their evidence, over and above the weight Ive 
attached to Mrs Cs account of things, as theyre not impartial witnesses.I do think its of relevance that in her 2020 application form, Mrs C did answer this question 
yes and gave some detail of her mental health history. Which supports her account that she 
would have done the same in 2014. That being said, I can see Mrs Cs account of her 
mental health history in her 2020 application still wasnt entirely accurate as she suggested 
her relevant history was 15 years ago, when some was in fact far more recent. So, this later 
disclosure doesnt persuade me that its likely Mrs C gave Sesame this information back in 
2014.
The application submitted by Sesame and the application summary document which was 
then sent to Mrs C after she took out the policy is the only evidence we have from that time. 
And these suggest Mrs C didnt tell Sesame about her full mental health history when asked 
the relevant questions. The application summary included a copy of all the questions asked 
and Mrs Cs answers. And it advised Mrs C that is was extremely important that she checked 
all the information was correct as failure to do so could mean a claim may not be paid and 
the policy cancelled. The form also made it clear Mrs C could amend her answers and return 
the form if there were any inaccuracies  but no amendments were made. The fact Mrs C 
doesnt appear to have then checked/amended her answers indicates that she didnt take as 
much care over her application as she was advised to. In this context and in the absence of 
further evidence, Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to say its more likely than not 
that the inaccuracy in the application is due to an error Sesame made.
I appreciate this will be an incredibly disappointing outcome for Mrs C. Im aware how 
confident she is that she would have given the Sesame representative this information. But I 
hope this decision helps Mrs C to understand why, in the absence of further evidence, Im 
unable to conclude that Sesame has done anything wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sesame had no further representations to make and accepted my provisional findings.
Mrs C disagreed and said Sesames actions had left her without a policy. Mrs C said the 
provisional decision didnt make much sense to her and so she was asked if there was 
anything that we could help explain. Mrs C said she was specifically confused about how I 
could conclude that Sesame didnt make a mistake when it answered yes to one question 
about depression but no to another  she felt this was a contradiction.
I think it would be helpful to explain that the question that was answered yes was:
Are you currently receiving or seeking any form of treatment, medication or medical advice, 
for a condition or symptom youve not told us about already in the questions weve asked?
The follow up questions and the answers submitted on Mrs Cs behalf were:
Please select from list which problems you have had: anxiety/depression/stress 
Are you currently taking medication or undergoing treatment for this condition? Yes
Are your symptoms well controlled with no affect on your daily activities? Yes
The question that was answered no in the application was: Do you currently have or have 
you ever had: A mental illness that has resulted in any suicide attempt, suicidal thoughts, 
self harm or required hospital treatment or referral to a psychiatrist?Whilst the second question also relates to mental ill health, its possible for someone to have 
suffered from anxiety/depression/stress and be on medication, without having attempted 
suicide, had suicidal thoughts, self-harmed or required hospital treatment or a referral to a 
psychiatrist. So, I dont think its contradictory for one question to be answered yes and the 
other no.
But I appreciate Mrs C is trying to highlight that she positively disclosed her depression, and 
so wouldnt have then failed to disclose her medical history linked to this. But as outlined in 
my provisional findings, the fact Mrs C disclosed her depression isnt enough for me to say, 
on balance, that she also told Sesame about any suicide attempt, suicidal thoughts, self 
harm or required hospital treatment or referral to a psychiatrist? I say this for all the reasons 
outlined above.
Having considered everything, I remain of the view that the evidence doesnt suggest 
Sesame did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman