DRN-3330498
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
What happened
  Mr and Mrs M say they bought a timeshare from a business, Business X, in February 2009. 
To fund the purchase of the timeshare, Mr and Mrs M took out a loan with GE Money that 
they say ran for around 12 months before it was paid back. 
Mr and Mrs M said that when they took out the timeshare they were told that timeshare 
members would have exclusive access to the resorts, they could book accommodation at 
any time at locations all round the world and that they could sell their timeshare in the future 
for a profit. But this all turned out to be incorrect.
So Mr and Mrs M said that Business X misrepresented the nature of the product to them at 
the time of sale. Mr and Mrs M said that had they known what Business X said wasnt right, 
they would not have taken out the membership in the first place.
Unhappy with what had happened at the Time of Sale, Mr and Mrs M  using a 
representative  wrote to GE Money in 2019 (the Letter of Claim) to make claims under:
(1) Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation; and 
(2) Section 140A of the CCA for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
GE Money responded to say it didnt have any information on its systems about Mr and      
Mrs Ms loan due to the time that had passed. It had no information about the start or end 
dates of the loan on its system and Mr and Mrs M were unable to provide any point of sale 
documents to confirm this. But they did have statements showing they made direct debit 
payments to GE Money in 2009. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They felt that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been brought too 
late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative responded to say they wanted an ombudsman to review the 
complaint, so it was passed to me for a decision.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes the law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes 
of practice and good industry practice. Having done so, Im not going to tell GE Money to do 
anything further to resolve the matter and Ive explained why below.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I want to assure Mr and Mrs M that, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs M said that Business X misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if GE 
Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the Limitation 
Act 1980 (LA), it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I 
should make it clear however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs M may have 
to bring these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this 
decision Im considering if GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and 
Mrs Ms claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would ordinarily be brought under s.2(1) of 
the Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 
1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action 
brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a 
claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued.
As Mr and Mrs M made a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA, its covered by s.9 
LA  which, means they had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to 
make the claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Ms case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare. They 
say, had the misrepresentations not been made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. 
And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as they took out the loan agreement with GE 
Money. 
As we have no point of sale documents, we dont know exactly when the loan was taken out, 
so Ive had to think when I think its most likely a loan was granted. But Mr M has said the 
first monthly payment for the loan was made in April 2009, and Mr and Mrs Ms previous 
representative has said the loan was taken out on 27 February 2009. It was around that time 
that Mr and Mrs M entered into an agreement based, they say, on the misrepresentations of 
Business X. 
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued around February 2009 and by 
April of that year at the latest. And it was from then that Mr and Mrs M had six years from 
then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money about their claim until August 
2019, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So I think GE Money acted fairly 
in turning down this misrepresentation claim.The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 
3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years, so Mr and Mrs M 
had to make their claim within six years of the end date of their loan. 
GE Money hasnt been able to provide evidence of when Mr and Mrs Ms loan ended as it 
says it was closed some time ago and it doesnt have records that go that far back. Im not 
surprised by that as there is no requirement for GE Money to keep records indefinitely. But I 
note that Mr and Mrs M have said the loan was taken out in February 2009 and ran for 
around one year. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr and Mrs Ms agreement ended at some point in 2010, which fits with what GE Money 
has said about not being able to find any information about the loan. But that means any 
claim brought in 2019 was too late and I dont think they are able to make a claim under 
s.140A. And for that reason, I dont think GE Money needs to do anything further.
Conclusion
Ultimately, as Ive said before, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr 
and Mrs M may have against the Business X or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, 
as far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs M might have 
against GE Money is likely to have been made outside the time limits set out in the LA. And 
for that reason, Im not persuaded that GE Money needs to do anything to put things right in 
this complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman