DRN-3056039
Complaint
Mrs K has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander), amongst other things, unfairly 
added interest, fees and charges to her overdraft in circumstances when it ought to have 
realised she was already struggling to repay what she owed.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought Santander should have realised 
that Mrs Ks overdraft had become unsustainable for her by September 2014 and so it 
needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mrs Ks overdraft from this 
point. 
Santander didnt respond to our adjudicator. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think Santander acted unfairly when 
it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mrs Ks overdraft from 
September 2014. 
By this point, Santander would have seen that Mrs K had been hardcore borrowing for an 
extended period. In other words, Mrs Ks account remained persistently overdrawn for 
lengthy periods without returning to credit. Mrs K was also regular exceeding her overdraft 
limit and had regular paid and returned item fees added to her account.
So I think that by September 2014, Santander ought to have realised Mrs K was struggling, 
should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Mrs K with 
forbearance rather than adding even more fees and charges on the overdraft. 
As Santander didnt react to Mrs Ks overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the 
same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. And as this led to Mrs K 
paying additional interest, fees and charges at a when she was already experiencing 
difficulty, Im satisfied that she lost out as a result of Santander failing to act fairly and 
reasonably towards her. So Santander needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Mr G
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ks complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ks overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from September 2014 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mrs K to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If Santander considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mrs Ks credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the account in September 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs K along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ks credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Mrs Ks complaint. Santander UK Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman