DRN-4300410
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about 
the delay in settling his claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G made a claim under his motor insurance policy and Advantage looked to repair his car. 
But there was a significant delay of about 11 months in the repair of his car caused by a 
number of factors which led to Mr G being charged additional lease hire costs for his car as it 
was returned late. So, he complained to Advantage about this. 
When Advantage considered his complaint, it sympathised with the position he found himself 
in, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It did provide a letter of explanation for Mr G 
to send on to the finance company who were pursuing Mr G for the additional costs he 
incurred as he didnt hand the car back on time. As Mr G remained unhappy and was still 
being pursued for the additional lease hire costs he complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G and upheld his complaint. He looked at the 
circumstances surrounding the claim and thought that Advantage contributed to a number of 
delays. And so, he thought it should pay the additional costs Mr G incurred as the repair of 
his car was delayed.
Advantage acknowledged that it contributed to some of the delay but maintained it wasnt 
responsible for delays caused by the difficulty getting parts and because of the impact of the 
pandemic. However, it went on to offer a small contribution to the costs Mr G incurred but 
not all of the costs. This was because it accepted it was responsible for one of the delays (of 
around a month) but not all. 
So, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I can understand Advantages position, as the repair was hampered by a number of factors 
that were outside of its control. However, the delay in repair wasnt Mr Gs fault and he has 
clearly faced additional lease hire costs through no fault of his own which feels unfair. 
I accept the pandemic affected Advantages ability to repair Mr Gs car within a reasonable 
time frame. However, Advantage has acknowledged that its repair of Mr Gs car was delayed 
for a month or so at the very least which is why it offered a small contribution to the lease 
costs Mr G incurred. But, as our investigator suggested, this offered a window of opportunity 
that would have allowed the repair of Mr Gs car on time which wouldve meant he didnt 
incur any additional costs.
Further, as our investigator highlighted it could have taken other steps once it realised the 
repair was going to be so delayed including offering to cash settle the claim so Mr G could 
get his car repaired himself on time. I accept the general point that Mr G may have faced 
similar difficulties with delay in getting parts ordered amongst other things but at least he 
would have been in control of the repair process. And Advantage could also have chosen to 
write off Mr Gs car and pay him the market value of his car which wouldve meant that he 
wouldnt have faced additional charges. As his car wasnt a write off at the time of claim I 
realise that this wouldnt be its usual process but as it couldnt get the required parts it could 
have chosen to do this and retained the salvage to offset its costs or got the car repaired 
fully at a later stage. Many insurers chose this path during the pandemic period especially 
when there was a continued unavailability of parts or significant delays. 
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Advantage to pay the additional lease car costs Mr G faced, subject to 
reasonable proof. Our investigator has suggested it should also pay simple interest on this 
amount. However, Mr G hasnt had to pay anything as yet so I dont think it would be fair to 
simply pay him interest as he hasnt been without the money. But, as I understand it, Mr G 
may face paying interest on the amount owed to the finance provider. Once this is clarified 
then I would expect Advantage to simply pay any additional interest Mr G has incurred 
subject to reasonable proof. And I do agree he should be paid £350 by way of compensation 
as Mr G has clearly faced a fair degree of stress and inconvenience as the lease car 
company has been chasing him for the debt and court proceedings have hung over him.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr Gs lease hire costs for the additional months he was 
unable to return his car due to its delay in repairing his car including interest (if any), subject 
to reasonable proof. Plus, £350 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman