DRN-3226336
The complaint
Mr F complained that Revolut Ltd refused his charge back request when he didnt receive 
products linked to a contribution made through a crowd funder using his Revolut Card. 
What happened
In August 2020, Mr F used his Revolut card to pledge a contribution of €2,385.25 through a 
crowdfunding website. The contribution related to a campaign operated by the crowd funder. 
In return for Mr Fs contribution, he expected to receive perks in the form of four products 
from the campaigner. 
Following delays and exchanges between Mr F, the crowd funder and the campaigner, Mr F 
was told that the perk products were to be shipped. So, he then paid US$400 towards the 
shipping costs. Unfortunately, the perk products didnt arrive.
Mr F requested a chargeback on his Revolut card on 15 December 2020. On 6 January 
2021, Revolut declined Mr Fs chargeback request. They said, It seems that the transaction 
youre disputing was a contribution/pledge. In such a case, there are no chargeback rights.
Mr F wasnt happy with Revoluts response. He insisted that the payment he made entitled 
him to the products he expected. He said that as the campaigner had now confirmed that the 
products were to be shipped, his payment was no longer a pledge but was now a purchase. 
He also told Revolut he was aware of other contributors whose banks had agreed successful 
chargebacks in similar circumstances.
Despite continued exchanges, Mr F remained unhappy with Revoluts response to his 
request. So, he raised the matter as a complaint with Revolut during an online chat with 
them. But Revolut refused to change their decision.
Mr F decided to refer his complaint to this service. So, one of our investigators looked into 
the circumstances before issuing their own view. Our investigator thought that Revolut hadnt 
acted fairly. From information hed seen, he believed that the crowd funder would accept a 
chargeback request against a transaction for a contribution or donation to a campaign. 
Our investigator acknowledged that while a chargeback request may not have been 
successful, Revolut shouldve submitted a chargeback request here. He thought Revolut 
should pay compensation to Mr F of £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Revolut didnt agree with our investigators findings. They said the crowd funders website 
showed they dont sell goods and dont guarantee the success of campaigns. They also said 
the crowd funder operated a limited refund policy under certain conditions. These didnt 
apply in Mr Fs case. Revolut said that previous chargeback claims with the crowd funder 
had been lost because of the crowd funders terms and conditions. So, they didnt initiate a 
charge back as, in their view, it would fail. They asked that Mr Fs complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 23 November 2021  giving both Mr F and Revolut the opportunity to 
respond to my findings below before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Mr Fs uses a prepaid debit card provided by Revolut. Unlike conventional debit 
cards, its not linked to a specific Revolut bank account number and sort code. It 
requires the holder to load a virtual account with funds from a feeder account with 
another bank. The card can then be used to fund transactions with providers under 
the associated card scheme. 
Mr Fs payment of €2,385.25 appears on his Revolut transaction history on 18 
August 2020. The payment was to a crowd funding website and related to a 
pledge/contribution in respect of a specific campaign. 
Each campaign is designed to raise funds to enable a product or service to be 
developed and brought to market. In exchange for the pledge, Mr F was offered 
perks in the form of products supplied by the campaigner. The crowd funder and 
campaigner are distinctly separate entities. The crowd funder helps to arrange 
funding for the campaigner. Any perks are provided by the campaigner.
In simple terms, any pledge or contribution is effectively an investment in the 
campaign in exchange for perks. However, the crowd funders terms are very clear 
- They dont guarantee that campaigns will succeed, or that perks will be delivered 
or deemed satisfactory. They say that contributors accept the risk that a campaign, 
and its perks, might not come to fruition. In Mr Fs case, it appears this is what 
happened as the perk products didnt arrive and the campaigner hasnt responded 
to communications.
I also note that the crowd funder offers a limited refund to contributors only where a 
campaign hasnt ended, the contributor hasnt received a perk and the contribution 
hasnt been sent to the campaign owner. So, where the crowd funder no longer holds 
the contributors funds, any claim is unlikely to be successful. Given the campaigner 
had confirmed to Mr F that products would be shipped, its reasonable to conclude 
theyd received the funds from the crowd funder.
Chargeback schemes are voluntary codes that card issuers sign up to. They are not 
a right: the card issuer doesnt have to do a chargeback although this service thinks 
its good practice to try if they have good reason to. 
When a chargeback is initiated, theyre not guaranteed to recover money. This 
depends on the underlying circumstances and the card scheme rules. Ultimately, 
where theres a dispute, any chargeback request is decided based on these rules by 
the card scheme, not by the card issuer. So, in Mr Fs case, Revolut wouldnt have 
the final say on whether a claim is successful.
Ive looked at the chargeback rules for the card scheme associated with Mr Fs 
Revolut card. Ive found nothing to suggest that a chargeback cant be requested for 
something like this. In particular, the scheme rules say, Chargebacks are available 
to the issuer for transactions in which any value is purchased for gambling, 
investment or similar purposes. I think that applies here, so I dont believe that a 
chargeback shouldnt be raised purely because the transaction was a pledge or 
contribution to a crowdfunded campaign.
That said, banks don't have to raise chargebacks. If it looks clear that the cardholder 
would lose, then there's little sense in doing one. Revolut said their chargeback team 
didnt raise a claim with the crowd funder because of what is stated in the crowd 
funders terms and conditions. Theyd tried, in the past, to raise chargeback claims 
with this crowd funder. But claims were lost on the grounds that the claimant had no 
chargeback rights under the crowd funders terms and conditions. Revolut believe 
they are quite clear, and they had no reasonable grounds to expect that the outcome 
of Mr Fs chargeback would be positive.I realise that Mr F may not agree, but I believe if previous claims have been 
unsuccessful, based upon their experience and knowledge, Revolut are not obliged 
to commence a chargeback if they believe it would fail  thats what they decided 
here.
Mr F has referenced the experiences of other contributors whove had successful 
chargebacks. I cant comment upon the experience of others as Ive no knowledge of 
the individual circumstances of their claims. I can only look at Mr Fs situation in 
isolation.
Mr F also references a chargeback explanation on the crowd funders website. Ive 
reviewed this and believe it largely covers things from the campaigners perspective 
in the event a chargeback happens. But the guidance doesnt reference the card 
schemes rules which ultimately dictate any outcome. They also appear to relate to 
where funds havent yet been distributed to a campaigner. 
Mr F mentioned hed paid US$400 in respect of shipping costs for the products. This 
appears to be a distinct and separate transaction for a specific service. But Mr F 
hasnt specifically said this was completed using his Revolut card and Ive been 
unable to find this in his transaction history. Ive also seen nothing to suggest a 
specific chargeback request was made to Revolut for this part. So, I cant comment 
further on this transaction. 
I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed, but I disagree with our investigator. I believe 
Revolut were within their rights to decide not to initiate a chargeback for the payment 
of €2,385.25. They werent obliged to, particularly given their past experiences and 
resultant knowledge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. 
Revolut agreed with my findings and provisional decision and confirmed they had no 
additional points to add.
Mr F didnt respond to my provisional decision, despite follow up requests from this service. 
So, on the basis I havent seen anything that leads me to change my mind, my decision 
remains unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman