DRN-3082987
The complaint
Mr N complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr N was given loans by TFS as follows: 
Date Amount Term 
(months)APR Monthly 
RepaymentTotal 
Repayable
26/07/2012 £5,000 48 65.1% £246.84 £11,848.32
28/01/2015 £7,500 60 44.9% £279.25 £16,755
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ns complaint. She didnt think that TFS 
shouldve provided any lending to Mr N and she set out the steps that TFS needed to 
take to put things right. 
TFS initially asked for more time to respond and it did send us some more information about 
loan 1. But that was some time ago and it didnt say anything in response to our 
investigators view letter and recommendations for settlement. 
Although our investigator has sent a reminder and set a final deadline for TFS to respond, 
we havent heard anything further from TFS. Mr N is happy with what our investigator said in 
her view letter.
 
So as things havent been resolved informally and TFS hasnt replied to us within a 
reasonable timeframe, Mr Ns complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions 
as our investigator. I dont know specifically what TFS thinks about what our investigator said 
in her view  I think it is reasonable to assume that TFS may disagree with her proposed 
outcome as it hasnt taken any steps to put into effect what she suggested. So I will deal with 
all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this complaint.
Theres only limited information available about loan 1  which isnt surprising given how 
long ago it was taken out. But I can see from Mr Ns loan application that TFS had noted 
down his monthly income as £2,328 at the time and that he was a homeowner paying a 
mortgage.
I dont know what further information TFS gathered or what checks (if any) it did to verify 
what Mr Ns financial situation was at the time. But given the loan amount and the length of 
time he was expecting to pay the monthly repayments I think a proportionate check required 
TFS to ensure it had a full understanding of his finances before agreeing to provide the loan. 
So Ive looked at what I know about his financial situation at the time.
The credit check TFS did for loan 2 covered the period that Mr N took out loan 1 so I think 
its fair to say this provides some insight into his financial situation at the time. 
Our investigator took the same view and TFS hasnt disputed this. So, in the absence of any 
other or better information, I think its fair and reasonable for me to rely on this information. 
It appears that Mr N had four defaulted accounts when he applied for loan 1, all well within 
the three years running up to the loan application and the most recent only nine months earlier. All the defaulted accounts had outstanding balances. I agree with our adjudicator that 
this indicated that Mr N wasnt managing his finances effectively. 
Despite this evidence that he had unresolved money problems Mr N had recently signed up 
to a hire purchase agreement costing £207 per month over the next three years. 
Mr N told us that the loan purpose was to help him meet his existing commitments. I think it 
would have been apparent to a responsible lender had a proportionate check been done that 
this seemed the most likely reason for his borrowing, given the extent of his problematic 
debt. So I think that if TFS Loans had done the in-depth checks I think it was required to do, 
it would have found out this information and realised that loan 1 wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for Mr N over the loan term  and not provided it. So thats why Im 
upholding the complaint about loan 1.
When Mr N applied for loan 2, TFS asked about his income and verified this by looking at up 
to date payslip information. It recorded information about Mr Ns regular expenditure and did 
its own credit checks. But I dont think TFS thought carefully enough about what the 
information it had gathered showed about Mr Ns overall financial situation and the likelihood 
of him being able to pay the loan sustainably. And I dont think TFS made a fair lending 
decision when it lent loan 2 to Mr N based on the information it had gathered.
Our investigator set out in some detail the evidence of the further defaulted accounts that 
TFS could see on the credit checks it obtained when Mr N applied for loan 2. It was also 
apparent that he had fallen behind with payments on a number of other accounts including 
his mortgage and gas and electric payments. This was a clear indication that Mr N was in 
serious financial difficulty and was already unable to meet his existing commitments. And 
whilst I've carefully listened to the call recordings supplied by TFS I dont think that anything 
Mr N said was enough to explain or rebut the clear evidence of financial difficulty that TFS 
was able to see on its own credit checks.   
To my mind, it shouldve been apparent to TFS that Mr N probably didnt have the amount of 
disposable income that its calculations suggested, or indeed any spare cash at all  all the 
signs were that his finances were, in reality, under significant stress and his debt had already 
become unmanageable. 
Mr N had told TFS that he intended to use this loan for debt consolidation  in other words, 
to pay off other debt. But I think the scale of his debt overall and the extent of his evident 
money problems, compared to the much smaller value of the loan, would suggest that he 
would remain in serious financial trouble regardless. And given what TFS saw about his use 
of credit, there was a real risk that Mr N might use this loan to help him meet an immediate 
need to make loan repayments with the result this loan would simply add to his existing debt. 
I share our investigators concern about all this information. I think she was right to say that 
TFS saw enough to realise that whatever its affordability checks appeared to show, it 
shouldve realised that it would be irresponsible to lend further to Mr N when it was evident 
that he was already failing to manage his existing debt  and this loan risked adding to his 
overall indebtedness and financial difficulty. 
So, it follows that I dont think TFS should have agreed to provide loan 2 to Mr N in these 
circumstances. 
As Mr N has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loans 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what TFS did wrong. So, I think TFS needs to put things right.Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr N to repay the principal amounts that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for loans that should not 
have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr N shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed. 
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr N received as a result of being given the 
loans. The payments Mr N made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr N having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr N bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ns credit file regarding the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ns complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman