DRN-3843545
The complaint
Ms L complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited  (Startline), irresponsibly granted her a 
hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In June 2019 Ms L acquired a car that was  financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Startline. The total cost of the car was £11,964. Ms L was required to make 48 monthly 
repayments of £272.42. The total repayable by Ms L under the agreement was therefore 
£16,553.80.
I understand that Ms Ls agreement was settled early. 
Ms L says Startline didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable for her. Startline didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit score in order to check that Ms L 
would be able to repay the credit.  
In my provisional decision dated 30 November 2022, I explained why I wasnt intending to 
uphold this complaint. I set out an extract below:
I think it would have been proportionate for Startline to have found out more about Ms Ls 
committed expenditure, such as her living costs. I cant be sure exactly what Startline would 
have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable 
to place significant weight on the information contained in Ms Ls bank statements as to what 
would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. Our 
adjudicator said Ms Ls total average monthly income in the three months before the 
agreement was around £2,120  higher in fact than that assessed by Startline. Ive also 
noticed that Ms L was receiving regular sums of money from family members and friends. In 
the four months leading up to the agreement, these sums totalled an average of £1,900 
extra in funds per month  and even if I discount a lump sum that was paid, it still works out 
at around a further £1,500 per month. One consequence of this is that Ms L was receiving 
substantially more from her parents during this time than she was giving them by way of a 
contribution towards household costs  in other words, the monthly outgoings she told us 
about were a lot lower. It follows that Ms Ls monthly income was in fact much higher, 
leaving her with enough disposable income to amply cover the sum due under her new 
Startline agreement. 
Taking all this into account, therefore, I currently dont agree that had Startline carried out 
fair and proportionate checks it would have considered the finance to be unaffordable. So I 
dont think that Startline acted unfairly in approving the finance application. It is of course 
open to Ms L and Startline to send me any further evidence or information they wish me to 
consider before preparing my final decision.
Startline said it had nothing to add by way a response to my provisional decision. Ms L made 
some comments which Ill consider below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Startline will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Ms L is unhappy with the way Ive checked her credit report and bank statements. She says 
the statements show she was borrowing money to help her to pay bills. She also says that 
money being gifted to her to help pay her housing costs is not something I should be 
treating as income. She also says she had some bounced payments and missed payments. 
Ive gone back to the credit report and bank statements and reviewed them once again. On 
the credit report, whilst I can see several defaulted accounts, although these all-post date 
the agreement. 
Turning to the bank statements Ms L sent us, I see these cover the period  from March to 
June 2019  the four months leading up to when Ms L entered into the agreement. Taken 
together, during this time I calculate that Ms L had total income of around £17,350 and total 
expenditure of around £17,560. So her total expenditure exceeded her total income by about 
£200. But against that background I also have to take into account that Ms L was still paying 
£494 per month for her previous car finance arrangement, along with her other regular 
expenditure. For the new agreement with Startline the figure would be £222 less, leaving 
Ms L better off by having more disposable income and having less reliance on help from 
family and friends. 
I do agree with Ms L that occasional payments or gifts from family and friends to ease 
financial difficulty is not something Id necessarily take into account when looking at 
questions of affordability. But in this case there was a consistent and substantial level of 
support coming from Ms Ls family and friends. Whilst I dont doubt that Ms L was fortunate 
to be able to rely on and benefit from this level of support  which is not something that can 
be guaranteed to last indefinitely  I dont think it would be right to completely discount it 
when looking into her overall situation. And given that Ms L was successfully concluding the 
previous motor credit agreement shed had, and had had another one prior to that, it seems 
likely that Ms L had come to rely on this additional source of daily income. I do of course 
appreciate that its something she would wish to do less, and would want to move towards 
becoming more financially self-supporting. The impact of the new agreement on her finances 
would be a step towards helping to achieve that.  
Finally, I dont disagree that Ms L missed the occasion payment but from what Ive seen this 
wasnt such a problem that I would have expected it adversely affect Startlines decision to 
grant the agreement. 
It follows that in the absence of any new evidence, my finding remains that the new hire 
purchase agreement was likely to be affordable for Ms L and I therefore dont consider that 
Startline acted unfairly in granting it. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman