DRN-3516817
The complaint
Rs complaint is about an additional premium added to its professional indemnity insurance 
policy by Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd. 
The complaint is brought by Mr R on Rs behalf. 
What happened
In October 2019 R took out a professional indemnity insurance policy with Accredited 
Insurance. In doing so it provided a warranty that it would carry out a cyber audit of its 
business to be completed within 30 days. It also warranted that any reasonable 
recommendations arising out of the audit would be implemented within 90 days of the report 
being received.
R duly engaged a cyber firm to conduct the audit. The report was provided to it in December 
2019 but for several reasons, R didnt implement the recommendations contained within the 
it by March 2019. As a consequence, Accredited Insurance charged R an additional 
premium on reliance of its policy terms. R says the premium was substantial because R 
wound up its business shortly after the recommendations were implemented, which led to it 
paying for run off cover. The run-off cover was based on the additional premium Accredited 
Insurance took for R failing to fulfil its obligations under the warranty.
Mr R feels this is unfair. He says he, on behalf of R, took reasonable measures to try to 
comply with the recommendations of the audit so the additional premium shouldnt have 
been charged.
Our investigator considered Rs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. She 
said that Accredited Insurance were entitled to charge the additional premium because R 
hadnt fulfilled the terms of the warranty by implementing the recommendations of the audit 
within 90 days. She accepted that R did try to implement the recommendations within the 90 
day period but the terms of the policy were clear about the consequences of not doing so 
and that it was reasonable for the additional premium to have been charged because there 
was an additional risk to Accredited Insurance. 
Mr R doesnt agree with the investigator, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that R provided a warranty in the terms Ive mentioned above and that the 
consequence of failing to adhere to that warranty was that Accredited Insurance could 
charge an additional premium. That was so it could reflect what it would have charged 
originally, had the warranty not been provided. Ive reviewed both the warranty and the 
policy terms in respect of that and am satisfied thats correct. 
It's also not in dispute that R didnt comply with their warranty that they would complete a 
cyber report within 30 days but that isnt in issue in this complaint. Rather Accredited 
Insurance took issue with Rs failure to comply with the recommendations of the audit by 
implementing them within 90 days. So, Ive focussed solely on this in my decision.
Mr R says he took reasonable measures to try to comply with the recommendations of the 
audit within the 90 day period, but wasnt able to do so for valid reasons. As the investigator 
said, there are two different ways of interpreting the 90 day requirement of the warranty- 
either as ordinary days or as working days. The policy and warranty are silent on how to 
interpret the requirement, but I dont think this makes much difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. Thats because even if I interpreted the number of days as working days- which 
wouldve allowed R more time (until the end of April 2020) to implement the 
recommendations, I dont think this would have meant R wouldve complied with the 
warranty within that time frame. But more importantly I also dont think the reasons given for 
not being able to do so mean that Accredited Insurance arent entitled to apply the additional 
premium in the way they have. Ive explained why below.
Reasons for non-compliance with 90 day requirement
Mr R told us R closed its doors for the Christmas and New Year period from 19 December 
2019 and so wasnt in receipt of the audit report until it returned. I appreciate that might have 
been Rs business practice, but I dont think I can discount this period from the 90 days 
because of that. I think Accredited Insurance would have been entitled to rely, at the very 
least, on a period of 90 working days, which would have encompassed some of the time R 
was closed. The fact that R chose to close its doors outside of usual business hours isnt 
something I think Accredited Insurance should discount time for.
Mr R also told us that R had to close its office in March 2020 due to the government imposed 
national lockdown and that he couldnt go into the office for some time after that to protect 
his wife who was extremely vulnerable and shielding. Whilst the national imposed lockdown 
didnt start until 23 March, I appreciate that Mr R felt compelled to take on the then Prime 
Ministers direction from 16 March, that all essential travel and contact should stop. And I 
think that his circumstances meant that he couldnt reasonably be expected to implement the 
recommendations of the audit from 16 March 2020 onwards. But even if I discount this time 
from the 90 days, I dont think this makes any difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
Thats because theres no evidence to suggest that R did ever implement all of the 
recommendations set out within the audit, such as setting up two factor authentication before 
it wound up its business. 
Mr R says there was no point in doing so once a decision had been taken to wind up the 
practice. But that doesnt persuade me that the premium Accredited Insurance applied was 
unfair. It would have been the same premium Accredited Insurance would have offered the 
policy on had R not given the warranty it did and that was essentially the place it ended up in 
before it was wound up- namely without all of the recommendations of the audit in place. So, 
it presented a very different risk profile to the one it warranted to change when it bought the 
insurance.
Risk profile of R
When reaching my findings, Ive taken into account Mr Rs detailed submissions about the 
way in which it did business and why he thinks the risk R presented was much lower than 
other similar businesses. Im not persuaded that this makes much of a difference. Whilst Rs 
business might have done things differently to other similar businesses, I dont think that disqualifies it from cyber risks altogether. And it was up to Accredited Insurance to decide 
what risks it was prepared to take when offering insurance and apply a premium it thought 
was appropriate in the circumstances. If R hadnt provided the warranty it did, Accredited 
Insurance would always have applied the premium it has now charged. So, I dont think its 
unfair that its now done so.
Difficulties with cyber experts
Ive also thought about the problems Mr R said he faced with the cyber experts he engaged 
in relation to implementing two factor authentication and the fact that the warranty required 
him to implement only the reasonable recommendations of the report. 
I cant comment on the actions of that organisation as thats outside my remit. And R 
engaged those experts on a privately paying basis rather than as Accredited Insurances 
agents, so I cant hold Accredited Insurance responsible for this. I appreciate that Mr R feels 
it was unfair for Accredited Insurance to apply the 90 days strictly because of the actions of 
the cyber experts but I dont agree. The risk to Accredited Insurance would have increased 
outside of this period, whether or not that was due to someone elses actions. Because of 
this I think they were entitled to charge the premium they had. And even if I take into account 
that the advice about how to implement two factor identification was unreasonable, I cant 
say that the recommendation to actually implement it was also unreasonable. So even if that 
meant R should implement two factor authentication through its own internet provider, the 
fact that it failed to do so is enough for me to determine that Accredited Insurance was 
entitled to charge the premium it had. 
Overall insurance risk to Accredited Insurance
Mr R has said he feels that Accredited Insurance already mitigated its insurance risk by 
adding an endorsement to Rs policy in April 2020, following two factor identification not 
being implemented. Because of this he feels its unfair for the additional premium to be 
charged. 
Ive considered this and the endorsement carefully. The endorsement amended the excess 
on the policy for claims arising from or originating from data breaches of Rs information 
technology systems (including telephony) of £2,500 for each and every claim, capped at 
£7,500 annually but £100,000 for each and every claim. Although its not worded very 
clearly, it looks like Accredited Insurance sought to limit the claim value to a maximum of 
£100,000 in addition to raising the excess. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that the endorsement applied wouldnt always have been 
applied if R hadnt provided the warranty it had. And given the endorsement refers to the 
additional excess, claim value and additional premium, I think its likely Accredited Insurance 
would have always applied this collective approach if the warranty wasnt provided. In 
addition Accredited Insurance have continued to provide cover for data breaches, albeit in a 
limited way, rather than excluding it altogether. Given the wide and far reaching risks cyber 
threats pose to businesses, both large and small I think thats reasonable.  I know Mr R will 
feel thats unfair but as Ive said, its up to an insurer to decide what risks it is prepared to 
take and offer policies based on their risk appetite and in this case Accredited Insurance 
have provided cover for data breaches despite the protections it expected not being in place. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Rs complaint against Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Ltd. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R, on behalf of 
R to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman