DRN-2006791
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Ocaso SA Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros declined his claim for 
damage to his roof under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Towards the end of October 2019 Mr A says that there was a heavy downpour of rain. When 
Mr A went into his utility room he discovered that part of the flat roof had collapsed causing 
some debris to come down into the room. 
Mr A obtained a quote to repair the damage to roof and the internal ceiling and reported the 
matter to his insurers. 
Ocaso sent out its loss adjuster to look at the damage and provide it with a report. The loss 
adjusters took photographs of the damage, inspected the area of damage, spoke with Mr A, 
checked the weather report in the area, and also spoke with Mr As contractor. 
As a result of their investigation they found that there had been no adverse weather around 
the time of the incident and therefore the damage to Mr As roof and ceiling would not be 
covered under the terms of Mr As policy. The loss adjuster said that the damage to the roof 
was likely due to the age of the roof and the fact that it had not been repaired or replaced in 
the last 12 years.
Mr A was not happy with the report and complained to Ocaso. He said that there was no 
obligation on him to replace the roof regularly and so he couldnt understand why the age of 
the roof was a factor in the claim.
The loss adjuster responded that Mr As insurance policy did not cover for any and all 
damage to the property and only protected against the consequences of certain events 
occurring. They said that they could see no storm damage to the roof during the inspection 
and that the weather records did not identify any storm conditions over the period in 
question. They also said that Mr As contractor had confirmed that the damage was due to 
the age of the roof. 
Mr A was not happy with the response and so he referred his concerns to this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for Mr A but did not uphold Mr As complaint. She said that 
whilst the rain may have contributed to the roof collapsing on that particular day she did not 
agree that this should be covered under the storm damage section of Mr As policy. The 
investigator felt that Ocaso had acted reasonably in declining the claim. 
Mr A did not agree with the investigators view and therefore the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So Im not requiring Ocaso to do 
anything more. 
I think its helpful to explain that I need to consider what the policy documents say about 
whether claims would be paid in this situation. And if Im satisfied that the terms say they 
wouldnt pay out, whether thats a fair and reasonable approach to take. 
Ive reviewed Mr As policy documents to see what cover he has. Mr As policy has cover for 
storm and flood damage but has no cover for accidental damage. There is a specific 
exclusion for wear and tear within the terms and conditions of the policy as well as a general 
exclusion for an incident that does not arise from one identifiable event.
Having read the above its clear that any damage caused by wear and tear, or where the 
incident does not arise from one identifiable event, is not covered by Mr As policy. 
Ive therefore needed to consider whether Ocaso has acted fairly in applying this exclusion 
to Mr As claim. And based on the information Ive seen from both parties I think it has. Ill 
explain why.
Mr A was visited by a loss adjuster who inspected the damage, took photos of what they 
observed and completed their report. I have carefully considered a copy of that report. The 
loss adjuster explains that there were no obvious signs of damage to the rear flat roof. They 
also explain that the weather records identify no storm conditions over the period in question 
and that Mr As contractor confirmed that the roof is simply old and in need of repair. I think 
that on the evidence that storm conditions did not apply although I do acknowledge Mr As 
submission that there was heavy rain in the lead up to the damage to the roof. 
The loss adjuster concluded that from the evidence available we do not consider damage to 
the roof has been caused by the insured event of storm but rather has failed due to its age 
Mr A has said that he wasnt trying to claim for storm damage but I think its fair that Ocaso 
considered the damage under storm damage since Mr As policy has cover for storm and the 
damage doesnt fall under any other section. Mr A says that there was heavy downpour 
which contributed to the damage to the roof. Even if there was heavy downpour in the weeks 
and days before the ceiling collapsed Mr As policy does not cover this as an insurable event 
and therefore I am satisfied that Ocaso acted reasonably in declining the claim. 
On receipt of the investigators view Mr A asked if the same policy would apply if the damage 
had been to the main roof. It is difficult to give a response on a hypothetical situation. If Mr A 
made a claim for the main roof I would expect Ocaso to assess it applying the terms and 
conditions of the policy fairly to the situation. 
I can see that Mr A feels very strongly that the damage should be covered and I can 
empathise with his position. But Im satisfied that Ocaso acted fairly and reasonably when 
they declined the claim for Mr As roof as the damage isnt covered by his policy. As they 
havent done anything wrong, I cant ask them to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require Ocaso SA Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to do anything more in 
respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman