DRN-2941445
Complaint
Mr H and Mr M are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc have chosen not to reimburse them 
after they were the victims of a scam. Mr M also complains that Bank of Scotland plc shared 
personal information regarding him without being authorised to do so.
Background
In August 2019, Mr H contacted a company which Ill refer to as S. He enquired about having 
a bespoke kitchen worktop created and fitted in his home. The total price of the contract was 
a little under £4,000. Mr H paid half of the price upfront.
A representative of the company visited his home to create a template with the intention that 
it would form the basis of the worktop. Once this had been done, Mr H paid the remainder. 
Both payments were made by bank transfer. A date was agreed for the worktop to be 
installed  but the day before, Mr H was contacted and told that the supplier had ceased 
trading and would be liquidated. 
Mr H asked whether it would be possible for him to take possession of the worktop hed paid 
for. Based on the arrangement he had with S, he assumed that it would be sitting 
somewhere on the companys premises. The Insolvency Practitioner told him that they had 
no problem with allowing that  but unfortunately the worktop had never been manufactured.
 
After further investigation on the part of Mr H, he discovered that, at the time he placed his 
order, S didnt have premises, tools or materials to supply him with what hed paid for. He 
found out that S didnt manufacture the products it sold but instead it had an informal 
relationship with a subcontractor. 
The owner of S told a creditors meeting that:
 we just had an arrangement that we would produce templates for the required 
work tops  [the subcontractor] would supply and source the product, form and 
mould it and then indeed liaise with us to set up installation dates with our clients.
[]
Around mid-May 2019, [the subcontractor] had stopped installing product but were 
still manufacturing product for us. 
As far as Mr H is concerned, S was in no position to supply him with the goods and services 
hed paid for but took payment from him nonetheless. He believes, therefore, that he is the 
victim of a scam.
Between making the first and second payment, Mr H called Bank of Scotland to ask for 
advice. He was concerned about S and didnt want to pay it anything more in case he was 
being scammed. A bank employee asked a range of questions to ascertain whether S was a 
legitimate company. On balance, he was satisfied that it seemed Mr H was dealing with a 
legitimate business. Mr H was reassured and so made the second payment.
He has since complained that Bank of Scotland didnt do more to help him. Hes unhappy 
that he was advised to make the second payment. He also thinks Bank of Scotland should 
reimburse him for his losses in full because its signed up to the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model code (the CRM code). The CRM code says that, where 
a customer falls victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam, participating 
businesses should reimburse the customer, except in very limited circumstances.
Bank of Scotland rejected his complaint. It said that, while it is a signatory to the CRM code, 
these payments were not covered by it. It says that Mr H isnt the victim of a scam but is 
involved in a private civil dispute. Thats something which is specifically not covered by the 
CRM Code.
In addition, Mr M has complained that his privacy was breached by an administrative failing 
on the part of Bank of Scotland. He is a joint account holder of the bank account from which 
these payments were made, but he wasnt interested in being part of the fraud claim. 
Nonetheless, Bank of Scotland shared his name with the receiving bank. It has since 
apologised for its mistake and offered to pay Mr M £500 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience that this must have caused. Mr H and Mr M think that £500 doesnt the reflect 
the severity of its error.
Mr H and Mr M were unhappy with the response from Bank of Scotland and so they referred 
their complaints to this service. This was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold the 
complaints. The Investigator sympathised with Mr Hs situation but agreed with the banks 
conclusion that this was a private civil dispute. The Investigator also didnt think Bank of 
Scotland needed to pay more than £500 in compensation for having shared Mr Ms personal 
data without his consent.
Mr H and Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusion and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry
practice at the time.
Having done so, Im persuaded that Bank of Scotland has acted fairly in deciding to not 
reimburse Mr H and Mr M under the CRM code and I find that £500 is fair compensation for 
the unauthorised sharing of Mr Ms personal information.
Are these payments covered by the CRM Code?
At the time Mr H made the payment, Bank of Scotland was signed up to the CRM Code 
which sets out how it should respond where its customer is a victim of an Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scam. The code doesnt cover all scenarios and it specifically excludes 
private civil disputes. It says: 
This code does not apply to  private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has 
paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with 
the supplier.
The key thing I need to consider when making a finding on this point is what the evidence 
tells us about the intentions of S  i.e. whether the evidence is strong enough to say that S 
took payment with no intention of performing its side of the agreement.
Mr H has pointed to the information he uncovered about the relationship between S and its 
subcontractor. He says this shows S didnt have appropriate premises or materials and so 
couldnt have fulfilled the order. But it appears its business model at the time was based on 
the use of subcontractors and that the relationships between S and those subcontractors 
was quite informal. Mr H has also said that S never placed an order for the materials to 
manufacture his worktop. Unfortunately, the informal nature of its operations makes it difficult 
for me to know for sure whether it did.
Certainly, the way S operates appears to have been disorderly but that isnt enough for me 
to conclude that it took the payments from Mr H with the clear intention to not carry out the 
work he was paying for. 
Mr H is the victim of extremely unfortunate circumstances here. He entered into this contract 
in good faith not knowing what the financial health of S was. And Im aware that my finding 
on this point probably means that theres no remedy available to Mr H. He is simply an 
unsecured creditor of an insolvent business. But whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint him, 
Im persuaded that this is a private civil dispute and so not covered by the CRM Code.
Mr H has mentioned that he only made the second payment after seeking advice from an 
employee of Bank of Scotland. He was told that if S turned up to make the template for the 
worktop then there was probably nothing to worry about. That gave him the confidence to 
make the second payment. He says he couldve recalled the funds from S at the at point but 
was told that this would mean locking S out of its account and cause it serious difficulties.
Ive listened to a recording of this conversation. The bank employee asked Mr H a range of 
questions to identify whether he was at risk of fraud. Based on the information that was 
available at the time, Im afraid I dont think Mr H was badly advised. Bank of Scotland 
obviously couldnt have known the more precise details about the financial health of the 
company he was dealing with so I wouldnt have expected it to warn Mr H about the risk of 
the company becoming insolvent and not being able to carry out the contract. 
Data breach
Finally, Mr M was unhappy that his personal information was shared with the receiving bank 
as part of Bank of Scotlands investigation. I understand it was making enquiries about 
recovering the funds that Mr H had transferred and, as part of those enquiries, it shared Mr 
Ms name. Mr M is a joint holder of the account from which these payments were made. 
Nonetheless, Mr M hadnt explicitly consented to his details being shared and I agree that 
they shouldnt have been.
The information that was shared was quite limited and, as I understand it, Mr M hasnt been 
financially affected by this failing and is unlikely to be. For those reasons, Im satisfied that 
the £500 Bank of Scotland has already paid in recognition of the distress it caused to Mr M is 
fair compensation. 
Final DecisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman