DRN-3786608
The complaint
Mr M complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a type of personal pension arrangement, in 2007. He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr M originally dealt with a different firm during the advice process, but Towergate Financial 
(East) Limited is now responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things simple Ill 
therefore refer mainly to Towergate. 
What happened
Mr M was a deferred member of the OPS which was operated by his previous employer. 
Hed accrued around 8 years worth of benefits and in 2007, the pension scheme signalled to 
members, like Mr M, that it would offer paid for financial advice for members who wanted to 
review their ongoing membership of the scheme. As well as telling members how much their 
pension was currently worth, the OPS also offered an enhancement for anyone who wanted 
to transfer their DB benefits to a different scheme, such as a personal pension plan.
Mr M took up the offer of the free financial advice for which Towergate is now responsible. 
Mr M had the option to keep his DB pension where it was and effectively do nothing with it. 
Alternatively he could agree to leave the scheme and take the enhancement  and he could 
take the enhancement as a cash lump sum (hed need to pay tax and national insurance on 
this), or he could pay the whole amount into a personal pension arrangement. 
The information gathered about Mr M at the time was broadly as follows:
Mr M was 50 years old, divorced and had children, but not financially dependent on 
him. Mr M earned around £1,450 per month (net). He didnt have many savings but 
was said to have around £26,000 in debts comprising of two personal loans.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ms DB scheme was £47,384.
An enhancement element if leaving the DB scheme was an additional £35,597. 
Taken together therefore, the total transfer sum Mr M could transfer to a personal 
pension was £82,981.
Mr M said at the time he expected to retire when he was 65 years old, which was just 
under 15 years away.
Mr M complained to Towergate in 2021 that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer away 
from his DB pension scheme. 
Towergate says that in its dealings with Mr M, it told him that transferring away from his DB 
scheme was only recommended if he reinvested the whole £82,981 back into a personal 
pension scheme. It says because Mr M took the enhancement element of £35,597 in cash, 
and then only reinvested the original CETV of £47,384 this wasnt in accordance with its 
advice. 
Towergate says Mr M was therefore an insistent client  a term used within the industry 
when a client wants to go against what was recommended to them by their adviser. 
Towergate does accept some aspects of the advice could have been better, but it maintains 
that transferring away on this basis was Mr Ms decision and that he was given several 
warnings about what he was doing. It also says that even if things had been done differently, 
Mr M would have always transferred from his DB pension in the way that he did and take the 
enhancement as cash.
The complaint has been referred to our Service. One of our investigators looked into it and 
said we should uphold it. They thought Towergate hadnt treated Mr M correctly when 
categorising him as an insistent client. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), stated in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COB) at the time, that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Towergate should have only considered a transfer if it 
could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests (COB 5.3.29G  
since renumbered).
Also at the time of the advice, there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect 
of insistent clients. But there were rules in the regulators Handbook, which required 
Towergate to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of 
its client. In addition, COB required Towergate to provide information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading. So, Towergates recommendation had to be clear and Mr M had to have 
understood the consequences of going against any recommendation it might have made.
Having considered all the circumstances in this case, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. My decision is along the same lines as given by our investigator.
The financial viability of transferring his pension
Towergate says that its advice to transfer was only ever predicated on Mr M transferring the 
whole CETV he had with the DB scheme plus the enhancement amount. So, I began by 
looking at whether I thought this advice was right.
Towergate referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to the critical yield rate. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. 
As our investigator explained, this aspect of the case is relevant here because Towergate 
operated a type of traffic light system which it called a rule of thumb. Basically, this meant 
that if the critical yield was deemed to be high (for example, over 7.5%), then a red warning 
would be given to the client to warn them that achieving a certain higher level of growth after transferring their DB pension to a personal pension plan, might not be possible. If the critical 
yield was still quite high (for example, 6% -to- 7.5%) then an amber light might be attributed.
In Mr Ms case, this was somewhat meaningless. I say this because Towergate said the 
critical yield was 7% meaning he was given an amber warning. However, the issue with this 
was that this critical yield was based on him transferring the whole CETV plus the 
enhancement. And what wasnt made clear in my view, was that if only transferring the 
CETV (without the enhancement element) then the critical yield was much higher  it was 
over 11%. Given that Mr M was clearly thinking about reinvesting only the CETV and taking 
the enhancement as cash, this means Mr M wasnt given all the information he needed to 
make an informed decision. This is because the 11% critical yield figure wasnt set out in the 
suitability report.
Even if considering only the 7% critical yield scenario, I dont think this was well explained 
either. This is because to me, the evidence is not persuasive that consistently exceeding this 
level of growth was likely in this case. The advice was given during the period when the 
Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
was only 6.4% per year for 14 years to retirement (age 65), which is below the 7% critical 
yield figure Ive referred to above and so this infers that reaching it would be more unlikely 
than likely. 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time of the advice was 
9%, the middle projection rate was 7%, and the lower projection rate was 5%. Towergate 
said Mr Ms attitude to risk (ATR) was medium, so I think a growth assumption around the 
regulators mid-rate was appropriate. However, this was still not above the critical yield of 7% 
Ive set out above.
But of course, we also know that the costs associated with a personal pension arrangement 
were much more likely to be higher than in Mr Ms existing DB scheme; and the charges and 
costs involved would therefore be a drag on potential growth. We know too, that hed be 
giving up certain benefits and guarantees in his DB scheme which wouldnt be replicated in a 
personal pension plan. And there would be little point in transferring if Mr M was likely to 
receive lower  or even the same - pension benefits in the longer term. Further to this, we 
know that the regulators stance on transferring these types of pensions was that the starting 
assumption should be that transferring wasnt suitable. 
So, I think that the advice to transfer was unsuitable, even if considering investing the CETV 
and the enhancement. There was simply no evidence that Mr Ms best interests, from a 
financial comparison perspective, were likely to be met by transferring away from his DB 
scheme. For these reasons, I think the transfer advice, even if moving across the whole 
amount, was flawed. 
Other possible reasons to transfer Mr Ms pension
Having said all that, advice to transfer away from a DB scheme usually isnt wholly based on 
a straightforward financial comparison between the existing pension and a new personal 
one recommended by an adviser. And this was probably the case here. What Ive shown above is that there were no compelling reasons or rationale to transfer 
away, based on achieving a better set of financial pension benefits in the longer term. But I 
cant see any other reasons for transferring either. So I think even the advice to transfer, 
based as it was on him moving the whole amount across to a personal plan, was also 
fundamentally flawed in this sense too. 
I would have expected the adviser, for instance, to comprehensively consider Mr Ms wider 
circumstances in determining whether transferring out, for any other non-financial reasons, 
was in his best interests. However, I think the adviser did a poor job in this respect. For 
example, the adviser accepted without question that Mr M didnt want to get into detailed 
discussions about the death benefits relating to his existing scheme or talk about life 
insurance. And whilst I accept Mr M may have thought these things werent a priority for him, 
I think the failures to probe these areas demonstrate wider shortcomings in the advice. It 
was the advisers job to set the agenda so that they could really understand Mr Ms situation 
a recommend accordingly. In addition to this, there was no real assessment of what Mr Ms 
financial needs in his retirement might be and whether the forecasted pension from the DB 
scheme met those requirements. Nor did the adviser seem to go into whether Mr M had a 
need for more pension flexibility than his existing scheme offered.
So, as well as there being no apparent longer-term financial benefits to transferring his 
pension to a personal plan, no other case was made for transferring in the longer-term, such 
as Mr M needing a more flexible income. I also think there was little regard given to what his 
retirement would look like and how he was intending to fund it if he transferred away. 
The suitability report and recommendation
The suitability report was issued on 12 July 2007. But all the indications are that Mr M 
already held a well-formed view that hed like to access the cash enhancement rather than 
invest this element into the personal pension with the CETV.
To me, this indicates that a discussion about taking the enhancement as cash had already 
taken place even before the suitability report was published. Ive noted that Towergate even 
told Mr M in the suitability report how much tax and national insurance hed have to pay to 
access the cash there and then. I think this was confusing, because on one hand Towergate 
was recommending he only transfer if he was reinvesting all the money, but on the other 
hand, it was showing him how much hed have left over in cash if he invested only a part. 
That Towergate then facilitated the pension transfer out of the DB scheme so Mr M could 
access the cash was another anomaly. 
In my view, what Towergate should have been doing is issuing its suitability report with a 
clear and unambiguous recommendation about what it thought he should do. This should 
have explained the different critical yields, particularly as one such yield was showing hed 
probably have to grow his pension, in a money market fund, by over 7% every year until 
retirement. This was simply to get, at very best, similar financial benefits to his current 
scheme. 
More importantly, if Mr M really was contemplating taking the enhancement as cash, the 
critical yield of over 11% would obviously help to demonstrate just how much he could be 
losing by the time his retirement came about, if he transferred away from the DB scheme. 
Achieving over 11% growth year-on-year was highly unlikely in my view, and so there were 
other ways Towergate could have demonstrated the real risks of transferring.
Towergate ought to have set out all these things clearly in the suitability report and then 
allowed Mr M to digest the contents. If Mr M had disagreed with the recommendations and 
still requested immediate access to the enhanced cash, then a further discussion would have been appropriate whereupon the adviser could explain all the aspects where Mr M was 
going against the advice and to check Mr Ms understanding.
I think one obvious risk here was that Mr M may have been thinking about only the short-
term, and not his longer-term retirement needs. We now know that a part of Mr Ms thinking 
at the time was that he wanted to access the cash to pay down some personal loans he had 
outstanding. But the documentation from the time doesnt go into any details about these 
loans and as our investigator pointed out, the detail of this debt was not clear - and there 
was certainly no indication that Mr M wasnt repaying down the two loans in the normal way. 
So, it simply wasnt made clear why Mr M needed to use part of his pension to pay off two 
personal loans. This was therefore very weak rationale for doing what Mr M wanted to do 
and it ought to have been robustly pointed out to him.
In short, Towergate conflated a number of issues in the suitability report. It put forward a 
recommendation, but it also said he was going ahead with a different version of the transfer 
nonetheless, because specifically accessing the cash was something he wanted to do.
Was Mr M really an insistent client? 
A key aspect in this case is Towergates categorisation of Mr M as an insistent client - this is 
a client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended and 
wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice. 
At the time when Towergate met with Mr M and was advising him, there was no specific 
regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of insistent clients. However, as Ive 
pointed out above, there were a number of important general rules in the regulators 
Handbook. These included but were not limited to a requirement upon Towergate to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In 
addition to this, COBS required Towergate to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
So, firms like Towergate, had a number of important responsibilities when providing this type 
of financial advice. Despite what Mr M might have thought he wanted at the time, 
Towergates job here, as a regulated adviser, was to provide advice that was clear and in his 
best interests. In particular, Towergate should have been clear that if it was not 
recommending a particular transaction or course of action, then the risks of what Mr M was 
apparently interested in were pointed out during the course of the advice.
I dont think Towergate adequately did this. It had discussed Mr Ms cash enhancement offer 
with him before even issuing its suitability report, and this indicates to me that the adviser 
clearly understood that he was tempted to access the cash even though hed have to pay 
quite a bit of tax and national insurance to get at it. The adviser then just produced a 
suitability report with his recommendations and in the same document he made reference to 
Mr M effectively wanting to go against the advice. 
I dont believe the evidence is plausible that Mr M even was an insistent client. The 
evidence Ive seen is strongly suggestive of him not being experienced in these types of 
financial matters and so was heavily influenced by his instincts. If Towergate had followed a 
much better process, I dont think Mr M would have insisted on going ahead with the 
transfer. I say this for the following reasons:
It would have been clear to Mr M what he would be losing out by transferring his 
deferred benefits.Theres no evidence that Mr M, an inexperienced investor, desired any input or 
control over the investment choices of his pension funds.
I also think that if Mr M had really wanted to better deal with these outstanding two 
loans he had, there could have been other ways of exploring how this might be 
achieved. Because the details of the loans werent comprehensively recorded at the 
time of the advice, it would only be speculation as to what was needed  or whether 
any action on them was needed at all. However, I dont think the case for irreversibly 
withdrawing from a DB scheme, to pay two loans which were not apparently in 
default, was made out by Towergate.
Towergate has asked me to consider some further important issues and Ive done this with 
great care. 
Firstly, I have considered the various warnings included in the documentation from the time. 
Ive also thought about a declaration Mr M signed confirming his understanding of the 
implications involved in transferring away and taking the enhanced element as cash. 
However, to be clear, Towergate still transacted this transfer-out for Mr M. And it did so 
directly after issuing the suitability report. As Ive said, the suitability report referred to the 
advisers recommendation and Mr Ms apparent disregard for it in the same document. In my 
view, the report was therefore issued only because it had to be  and it merely represented 
another step towards transacting what Mr M found attractive at the time. As for the 
declaration he signed, this is clearly a pre-formatted document produced for Mr M rather 
than by him. In my view, the words used in the declaration are not his own and probably not 
reflective of his understanding at the time.
Secondly, Ive considered whether Mr M would have still gone ahead and transferred his 
pension anyway, even if Towergate had done a much better job of advising him. Towergate 
says he would have gone ahead regardless and that this is supported by a subsequent 
question Mr M was asked about this when he complained. However, I dont think theres 
evidence Mr M had received enough information from Towergate at the time of answering 
this question, to demonstrate that he fully understood the significance of it. I dont think he 
understood Towergates failings at that point, or how these could have affected the probity of 
the advice hed received back in 2007.
Everything Ive seen points to Mr M requiring pension advice and not having much 
experience in these matters. I think if Towergate had gone back to Mr M and really explained 
the pitfalls of what he apparently wanted to do, and potential alternatives for him, then he 
would have listened to that advice.
Summary
In this decision I have set out why I think this complaint should be upheld.
Towergates initial position was to recommend that Mr M transfer away from his DB scheme, 
but only if he was intending to transfer both his original CETV and the considerable 
enhancement he was being offered on top. Ive explained that in the event, I dont think even 
this option was justified. There was no evidence showing how such a recommendation 
would make transferring worthwhile from a financial perspective. And similarly, there were no 
other, non-financial, reasons applying to Mr M that showed why transferring away from his 
existing DB scheme was right for him in the longer-term. As a result of transferring away, I 
think it should have been clear that Mr M was facing an uncertain retirement. Towergate 
didnt explain this enough.By taking the enhancement element as a cash payment, rather than reinvesting it in a 
personal pension, Towergate says Mr M was an insistent client. But I dont agree. 
Towergate should have first clearly set out its recommendations - and if Mr M wanted to go 
against these, then further discussion, clarification and advice should have been forthcoming 
at that point. 
Ultimately, I dont think Towergate did enough to ensure Mr M understood that transferring 
away from his DB scheme wasnt in his best interests, or that he appreciated the potential 
consequences of doing this. Ive not seen evidence that Towergate effectively advised Mr M 
about the gap in his retirement income he might face or the potential risk of funds in a 
personal pension running out in drawdown. And given these failings, I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to conclude the process Towergate followed meant that Mr M can truly be 
regarded as an insistent client.
Towergates communications werent clear or fair. It didnt act in Mr Ms best interests and it 
failed to act with due care and skill. 
Towergate failed in its duty, so Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr M, through his representative, whether he preferred any redress 
to be calculated now, in line with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be 
published. He doesnt want to wait, so I am therefore satisfied that a calculation in line with 
FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M. 
Compensation should be based on his stated and normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. This calculation should be carried out as at the 
date of my final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that 
decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of the decision.
Towergate may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date Towergate receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Towergate to pay Mr 
M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Towergate to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint.
I now direct Towergate Financial (East) Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as 
set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Towergate Financial (East) Limited to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only Towergate 
Financial (East) Limited to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Towergate Financial (East) Limited pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Towergate 
Financial (East) Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman