DRN-3031668
The complaint
Mr S says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a loan payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2002.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Nationwide disagreed with the
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I dont think Nationwide advised Mr S to buy the policy, so it didnt have to make sure it was 
right for him. But it did have to give Mr S enough information so that he could decide for 
himself if he wanted to take it.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said, but Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. This 
is because I think its unlikely Nationwide gave Mr S clear enough information about the 
policy, in particular the costs compared to levels of benefits.
Mr Ss loan was for £8,000 and the cost of the PPI was £942.87. The PPI attracted its own 
interest bringing the total cost of the insurance to £1072.44. Nationwide has told us it would 
have made the cost of the policy clear when the loan was sold over the phone and the 
paperwork that followed also presented the costs clearly.
Ive looked at all of this, but from the information available I dont think we have enough to 
say the cost was clearly explained during the call which was the point we would have 
expected the information to be presented. I think its unlikely Mr S would have thought the 
policy presented good value for money if it was presented more clearly. And its unlikely he 
would have taken the PPI.
So I think Mr S has lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong.
Putting things right
Nationwide must put Mr S in the financial position he would be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
Work out and pay Mr S the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would have paid without PPI.
Work out and pay Mr S the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr S paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is to uphold Mr Ss complaint. And I order
Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr S compensation in line with the approach set out
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman