DRN-4045352
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) handled 
international transfer requests she made.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Ms B called NatWest on 22 August 2022 to arrange an international transfer of £280,000. Ms 
B asked about arrangements for completing the transfer and the agent advised a CHAPS 
payment could be arranged. Ms B provided the destination account details and a reference. 
The agent explained that to complete the transfer, their manager would call the following 
day. The agent said:
Whats going to happen. Because of the time today, well have to get my manager to sort 
this out. Shell give you a call tomorrow to get it fully finalised. What I can do to make it 
easier for yourself is I can set you up with our highest level of security. Its called Voice ID. 
So when she does call you back, you dont have to go back through anything  it identifies 
you by your voice. You can change your mind at any time. Are you happy for me to set this 
up for you now?
Later in the call, the agent advised Ms B may receive a text message with a link to complete 
an online identification process. The agent said:
You may also receive a form later, just fill that form out for me as well. Its just to identify 
yourself a little bit further. Its nothing to worry about. Itll come as a text to your phone and 
you just click the link to it.
The call ended with the agent making the following point:
Im going to pass these details on to my manager. Shell give you call a tomorrow. Just to let 
you know her name is X. And shell give you a call back tomorrow referencing all this. Shell 
confirm the details with you once more and get that done for you.
Ms B has confirmed that no call back was received and she contacted NatWest in the days 
that followed on several occasions to try and chase up the transfer. Ms Bs explained she 
was given details on how to raise a complaint on 25 August 2022. But no call back was 
received from the manager as promised by the agent she spoke with on 22 August 2022.
Ms Bs also confirmed that no text message was received from NatWest either. NatWest has 
supplied a note from 27 August 2022 that says someone tried to call Ms B but was unable to 
get through. The note says the online identification process hadnt been completed and the 
transfer was declined.
NatWest issued a final response on 1 September 2022 and offered £70 to apologise and 
£23 in respect of the fee she was charged. The final response said that arrangements to 
complete another online identification process had been made as well.
On 1 September 2022 another transfer request for £280,000 was made. The online 
identification text message was received by Ms B and completed the following day. On 5 
September 2022 the transfer request was picked up by NatWest for fraud checks. At this 
point, the funds remained available for use in Ms Bs account. The fraud review was 
completed at some point on 7 September 2022.
Ms Bs explained that as no progress appeared to have been made with her transfer request 
and she urgently needed to move her funds to the destination account, she started making 
Faster Payments of £10,000 on 7 September 2022. Ms B made three Faster Payments for 
£10,000 in the days that followed. As a result, when NatWest tried to complete the £280,000 
transfer there were insufficient funds in Ms Bs account and it was declined.
On 13 September 2022 NatWest agreed to arrange another transfer for the remaining 
£250,000. The transfer was processed on 14 September 2022 and was completed on 20 
September 2022.
Ms Bs explained that as a result of the problems experienced and delays, the foreign 
exchange rates moved. As a result, Ms B received around €10,000 less when her funds 
were converted.
Ms B referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
increased the compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to £150. Ms B asked 
to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recently asked our investigator to contact both parties for further information. I wanted to 
look into the circumstances of the first transfer the was attempted on 22 August 2022 and 
the information Ms B was given during the call she had with NatWest. Ive now been able to 
listen to the call and have quoted the relevant sections above. As Ive noted, during the call 
the agent told Ms B the transfer had to be approved by their manager. To that end, the agent 
checked Ms Bs telephone number, gave the name of their manager and advised theyd call 
the following day (23 August 2022) to authorise the transfer. The agent also said Ms B may 
get a text message with a link. But they advised the text message was nothing to worry 
about.
Im concerned that theres no evidence of any call being made by the manager, as promised, 
on 23 August 2022. Ive specifically asked NatWest to supply evidence that shows its 
attempts to contact Ms B following her call on 22 August 2022. But the only evidence 
supplied is a note from 27 August 2022 that says someone tried to call Ms B and the online 
identification process had failed. Ms B has confirmed no call was made to her as expected 
so she called NatWest several times over the following days and ultimately chose to raise a 
complaint. Im satisfied theres nothing to show Ms B was contacted by the manager to
authorise the payment as promised by the agent when the transfer was instructed.
I also asked NatWest to supply evidence its online identification text message was sent to 
Ms B. NatWest hasnt supplied anything from its systems that shows it sent a text message 
to Ms B with an online identification instruction. And Ms B has told us no text message of that nature was received either. I think its reasonable to note that the agent Ms B spoke with 
said a text message may be sent, not would be sent. And Im satisfied that when Ms B didnt 
receive contact from the manager as promised, she tried to speak with NatWest in the 
following days.
In my view, NatWest has failed to show it followed up with Ms B with either the call from a 
manager or send the online identification text message. Both steps appear to have been 
required to complete the transfer. I also think its fair to say that the agent failed to make the 
requirement to complete the online identification process sufficiently clear to Ms B. Instead of 
advising the transfer would be declined if the online identification process wasnt completed, 
the agent said a text message may be sent and that it was nothing to worry about.
Ive considered what wouldve happened if Ms B had received the managers call back on 23 
August 2022 as promised. In my view, its most likely that the manager wouldve been able 
to walk Ms B through any outstanding issues, like the online identification process, and take 
steps to authorise the payment. Ive reviewed all Ms Bs submissions and Im satisfied shes 
remained consistent and thorough in her approach to the transfers. Im satisfied that if the 
managers call back had been completed as promised, the transfer for £280,000 would most 
likely have gone through as planned. In my view, it was failings at NatWest that led to the 
payment being declined.
As Im satisfied the 22 August 2022 payment shouldve gone through, I think thats a fair 
place to start in terms of deciding whether Ms B suffered a financial loss.
Ive looked at the transfer request instructed on 1 September 2022. The online identification 
process was completed on 2 September 2022 and on 5 September 2022 the transfer was 
picked up for fraud checks. But Ms Bs told us she was advised the transfer would go 
through on 2 September 2022 and wasnt subsequently notified it had been held for fraud 
checks. So when the funds were still in her account on 7 September 2022 (the same day the 
fraud review was completed) Ms B took the decision to carry out Faster Payments for 
£10,000 (the maximum allowed). I havent seen anything that shows NatWest told Ms B her
transfer had been delayed for fraud checks. And Ms B waited six days from the date of 
instruction before she took the decision to move funds.
Ms Bs explained she needed to move the money with some urgency and Im satisfied that, 
in the absence of guidance from NatWest, she made a reasonable decision to use an 
alternative method of transfer. Its a shame that the £280,000 payment was released for 
processing by the fraud team on the same day. As a result of the Faster Payments Ms B 
made, by the time the £280,000 transfer was cleared there were insufficient funds available. 
Again, in my view, a lack of clear guidance and communication by NatWest was ultimately 
responsible for the second £280,000 transfer being declined.
By the time a payment was successfully transferred via CHAPS it was 20 September 2022, 
around a month after the first instruction was given. By this time, foreign exchange rates had 
shifted and the euro was stronger against sterling. Ms Bs told us that, as a result, she 
received substantially less back when her sterling was converted to euros. For the reasons 
Ive given above, I think the delay was down to the way NatWest handled the various 
transfers attempted. And, on balance, Im satisfied that if NatWest had followed through on 
the promise for a manager to call on 23 August 2022 the transfer would most likely have
gone through as planned.
I dont think its fair for Ms B to lose out on the exchange rate that she received. So unless I 
see new evidence that changes my mind, I intend to tell NatWest to compensate Ms B for 
the difference between the exchange rate she wouldve received if the 22 August 2022 transfer had completed and the exchange rate she did receive when the remaining funds 
were finally sent on 20 September 2022.
In response to this provisional decision, Ms B should provide evidence to show the 
exchange rate that wouldve been used if the transfer had gone through on 22 August 2022 
and what she ultimately received when the funds were converted to euros.
In addition to the above, Im satisfied the way the transfers were handled caused a 
substantial level of distress and inconvenience to Ms B over a sustained period. So I also 
intend to award Ms B £350 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Following my provisional decision, Ms B responded and confirmed she was willing to 
proceed. I looked back over the available information on file and found the faster payments 
Ms B sent for £10,000 had been converted to euros by NatWest before being sent to her 
bank. But the £250,000 transfer was sent in sterling by NatWest and converted by Ms Bs 
bank to euros on receipt. 
A final loss figure of £5,446.33 was calculated, representing the difference between what Ms 
B wouldve got if the transfer and currency conversion had gone through on 22 August 2022 
and what she subsequently received when all the transfers were converted and paid to her 
other account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have now agreed the loss figure as set out above Im satisfied weve reached 
a fair resolution in Ms Bs case. In addition to the above £5,446.33 NatWest is also required 
to pay Ms B £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused. That means the final 
settlement, taking all elements of Ms Bs case into account, is £5,796.33. Im satisfied a 
payment of £5,796.33 is a fair and reasonable way to resolve Ms Bs complaint and 
recognises both her financial loss and the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to 
pay £5,446.33 in respect of her losses plus £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman