DRN-1626047
The complaint
Mr H has complained that U K Insurance Limited has declined his claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
Miss E is Mr Hs representative on the complaint.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why.
Its not disputed that Mr Hs car was stolen or when the car was recovered the 
compound confirmed that the keys were in Mr Hs car. What is in dispute is whether 
Miss E left the keys in the car.
I have reviewed the terms of the policy which say:
We will not pay a claim if your car is:
 
left unlocked;
left with keys or key fobs in, on, or attached;
left with the engine running
left with a window or roof open.'
UKI have said originally Miss E had said that she has dropped the key and kicked it 
under the car, however Miss E disputes this. However, having checked the contact 
notes it does appear some conversation took place regarding this. But without the 
call recording (which is unavailable) I cant be certain what was discussed. Therefore, 
I have gone on to assess other available evidence.
Later in the contact notes it appears that Miss E said she thinks she dropped the 
keys in the car, but as she had her children and shopping with her, she thought she 
would get them at a later stage. This indicates that Miss E knowingly left the key in 
the car.
This seems to be consistent with what Miss E has told our service in her email dated 
21 February 2020 where she said:
The point being I DID state that I had in fact dropped the keys IN the car and told UK 
insurance that they definitely did not hit the ground and that I made ONLY the police aware 
of the situation as the locks did not need changing in those circumstances.
So, on balance considering all the evidence presented, I think its likely Miss E did 
leave the keys in the car. And based on her own testimony, I think its evident Miss E 
was aware she had left the keys in the car.
I appreciate Miss Es comments that she was informed by the police officer that the 
third party gained access to the car using a signal grabber box, not through using 
the key and therefore, the third party must have found the key once they had gained 
access to the car. This may be the case, but the key was still left inside Mr Hs car 
and Miss E was aware of this.
Mr Hs policy terms like others I have seen on the market, are very clear, that a claim 
wont be paid if keys are left in the car.
With this in mind, I think UKI is entitled to turn down Mr Hs claim and I dont think it 
has been unfair or unreasonable in doing so.
Mr H has raised concerns with how long it took UKI to assess the claim. But having 
looked at the timeline, I am satisfied UKI assessed the claim in a timely manner. I say 
this because the claim was logged on 31 December 2019 and on 13 January 2020 
UKI confirmed the vehicle damage wouldnt be covered.
Therefore, I wont be asking UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman