DRN-1843551
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Society of Lloyds has turned down a storm damage claim he made on 
his Let Property Insurance Policy.
What happened
In March 2018, Mr B returned from abroad to be told that there was water damage to the 
inside and outside of his rental property. He got in touch with his broker to make a storm 
damage claim. He said the guttering had come away from the external wall following heavy 
snowfall during January and February 2018. He sent photos to his broker showing the 
damage. Mr B also got the guttering fixed.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the cause of the damage. The loss adjuster 
didnt think the damage was consistent with storm damage. Its report said it didnt think the 
snowfall had been intense enough to cause the damage to the guttering. And it said the 
internal damage wasnt consistent with a recent ingress of water. It thought the damage had 
been ongoing for a long time. So Lloyds turned down Mr Bs claim as it didnt think the 
damage was down to storm.
Mr B wasnt happy with Lloyds decision. He questioned how Lloyds could say the damage 
was historic when it hadnt surveyed the property before the claim was made. He said if the 
damage had been historic, he wouldnt have been able to find tenants. As a result of the 
claim and the time it had taken, he told us hed lost two of his tenants. Mr B asked us to look 
at his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She said the weather 
conditions around the time of the claim could be considered as a storm, given the wind 
speeds and the snowfall. But she said the policy stated only emergency repairs should be 
carried out in the event of a claim, so that Lloyds would have the opportunity to assess the 
cause of the damage. As Mr B had already had the guttering repaired; the investigator 
thought Mr B had denied Lloyds this chance. She also thought the photos of the damage 
backed-up the loss adjusters findings. Overall, she didnt think Mr B had shown the damage 
was due to storm conditions.
Mr B disagreed. He didnt think that his policy only allowed for emergency repairs. He said 
itd been nearly two months between him making the claim and the loss adjuster visiting. If 
he hadnt got the guttering repaired, the damage wouldve been worse. He asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 April 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought it was fair for Lloyds to turn down Mr Bs claim. I said:
First though, I should make it clear that having considered the terms of Mr Bs policy, I think 
the fact he got the gutters repaired was reasonable and sensible. The policy says that a policyholder must take reasonable care to limit loss or damage. I think that by getting the 
gutters replaced, Mr B sought to limit the damage to the property.
Mr B claimed for external damage to his guttering and internal water damage due to heavy 
snowfall. Weight of snow is covered by Mr Bs policy and is a weather event. For the 
purposes of this decision, Ill refer, at times, to storm conditions when considering whether or 
not Mr Bs claim should be covered.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
Ive carefully considered local weather reports for around the time it seems the damage was 
noticed by the tenants. I can see that in mid-late February 2018, there were wind speeds of 
up to 50mph. And snow depths of up to 34cm were noted. I currently think - given the wind 
speeds, coupled with the level of snowfall around the time - that these prevailing weather 
conditions can be considered to be storm conditions.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Mr B says that guttering came away from the wall because of the weight of snow. And that 
water ingress happened as a result, causing the internal damage. In my view, I think 
damage to the guttering could be consistent with heavy snowfall and storm conditions. I also 
think that resulting internal water damage can often be consistent with storm damage.
Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Ive thought carefully about this. For a claim to be paid, it needs to be because of something 
thats covered by the policy, which we generally call an insured event. In this case, Mr Bs 
claiming for damage caused by the weight of snow. Lloyds needs to be satisfied that the 
damage Mr Bs claimed for was caused by the weight of the snowfall.
Its generally for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. But 
insurers generally investigate this on a policyholders behalf. Thats whats happened here. 
Lloyds asked its loss adjuster to investigate the likely cause of the damage.
Because Mr B had already had the gutter repairs done, the adjuster wasnt able to inspect 
the old gutters to see if the snow had been the cause of it coming away from the external 
wall. So we asked the loss adjuster how itd reached its conclusions that heavy snowfall 
hadnt been the most likely cause of the gutter damage.
It told us that it thought it was highly unlikely that timber gutters  in a sound 
condition wouldve been damaged by the weight of snow recorded. Instead, it said it was 
most likely the gutters had been replaced because theyd reached the end of their life due to 
rot, wear and tear, decay and weathering.I have to make a decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. In this 
case, the only expert evidence I have is from the loss adjuster, who didnt get the chance to 
inspect the guttering. Mr B hasnt provided me with any expert evidence to counter the loss 
adjusters findings. And Ive also borne in mind that in one of his emails to Lloyds, Mr B said 
his builder had told him that his neighbours guttering hadnt been correctly fixed. He said the 
builder had told him rainwater had been running down from his neighbours roof into his 
gutter and down the outside wall. Based on this, it doesnt seem as if Mr Bs builder 
considered the snowfall was the likely cause of damage.
So, on balance I currently dont think the main cause of the damage to the guttering was 
storm. Ive then turned to consider the damage to see whether I think the main cause of the 
internal damage was down to the snowfall. Ive first carefully considered the loss adjusters 
report. It noted that salting was apparent. It said the plaster had come loose. The report 
also stated:
The internal damage appears to be a long standing issue and the damage is not considered 
to be consistent with recent water ingress. The damage we inspected at the time of our visit 
is consistent with long term water ingress resulting in severe damp.
Ive looked closely at the photos both Mr B and the loss adjuster provided. From what I can 
see, there are signs of damp and some of the woodwork internally has split. Based on what 
Ive seen, given the extent of the damage in the photos, they do seem to show that the water 
ingress had been happening over period of time. The damage seems extensive, given the 
short time between the snowfall and the claim being made.
Again, the loss adjusters report is the only available expert evidence I have. The 
loss adjuster had the opportunity to inspect the property and the damage and theyve 
recorded their findings. Mr B hasnt provided any expert evidence to show me the damage 
was most likely caused by a one-off event. So Im not currently persuaded that the internal 
damage was down to storm or heavy snowfall. This means I currently think it was fair for 
Lloyds to turn down Mr Bs claim.
Ive then turned to think about if Lloyds delayed its handling of Mr Bs claim. I can see from 
an email chain Mr Bs provided that his broker sent him a claim form on 16 March 2018. 
Lloyds said it didnt get a claim form. It isnt clear if Mr B filled one in. It appears the next 
email Mr B sent to his broker was on 25th April 2018, attaching photos and a video of the 
damage. This was followed up with an explanation about what had happened the next day.
It seems it was at this point that the broker sent the claim onto Lloyds. It assessed the 
photos and decided to appoint the loss adjuster to do a further investigation. The loss 
adjuster was appointed on 1 May 2018 and visited Mr Bs home two days later. So it seems 
to me that Lloyds knew about Mr Bs claim for around six days before it asked the loss 
adjuster to investigate the claim. I dont think this was an unreasonable timeframe for Lloyds 
to look into Mr Bs claim.
Overall, Im currently persuaded that Lloyds has treated Mr B fairly in its handling of his 
claim.
I asked both parties to send me any more evidence or information they wanted me to look at 
before I reconsidered the complaint.
Lloyds said it had nothing further to add.
Mr B disagreed with my provisional decision. Ive summarised his main points here:The gutters werent very old; so they hadnt reached the end of their life.
The loss adjuster had only visited the property for around 10 minutes and they 
werent a builder.
He didnt know he needed to provide expert evidence to counter the loss adjusters 
findings  this isnt set out in the policy.
His builder had noticed Mr Bs neighbours drain was higher than this, so once the 
gutter had been dislodged, the excess rain from next door ran down his wall instead 
of the gutter. This had also caused more damage to his property.
His builder did think the cause of the damage was snow.
He had made a mistake in disposing of the old gutter  if the loss adjuster had come 
out more quickly, shed have seen it.
Id said that the damage was consistent with storm, but then found the damage 
wasnt down to storm.
The gutter wasnt damaged by the weight of snow  it had pulled away from the wall, 
letting rain run down the roof and gutter.
There was no evidence of damp before the gutter had been dislodged  a previous 
tenant would be prepared to sign an affidavit confirming this.
The insurance company is insinuating that Mr Bs lying and committing fraud.
The snow and storm werent the only cause of the damage  there were also heavy 
rains.
A damp-proof course had been put in many years ago, so there was no reason for 
damp before the claim.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think it was fair for 
Lloyds to turn down Mr Bs claim. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mr B that while Ive summarised his response to my provisional findings, 
Ive carefully considered it in detail when reaching this final decision. I havent commented 
on each  point specifically, because  Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues.  Id 
also like to reassure Mr B that from all Ive seen, theres no suggestion that he hasnt made a 
claim in good faith. Lloyds simply thinks Mr Bs claim isnt covered by the terms of his policy.
Mr B says the loss adjuster didnt visit his home for more than 10 minutes and says they 
werent a qualified builder. The evidence Ive seen suggests the adjuster inspected Mr Bs 
property and took photos during their visit. They subsequently wrote a report setting out the 
likely cause of the damage. Their inspection was limited by the fact that the gutters had 
already been replaced. This meant their findings on the likely state of the gutters had to be 
informed based on the available evidence, past  claims experience and what was most 
likely. I havent seen enough though to make me think that the loss adjuster didnt carry out 
an appropriate inspection or accurately record their findings.
The loss adjuster didnt think weight of snow was the most likely cause of the damage. 
Theyve provided clear reasons for this position, which I think are supported by the photos 
showing the kind of damage Mr Bs property suffered. 
I appreciate Mr B said he didnt know he should provide evidence to counter Lloyds loss 
adjusters findings. This isnt a policy requirement. But he was told quite quickly after the loss 
adjusters visit that the claim wasnt covered and why. So he couldve asked an independent 
expert at that point to inspect the property. And if Id had independent expert evidence which 
countered Lloyds findings, Id have carefully considered what it said and which piece of expert evidence I found most persuasive. I also appreciate Mr B has said the gutters werent 
old  but I havent seen any invoices to show me when the gutters were last replaced or 
maintained. Or evidence which suggests they hadnt reached the end of their natural life.
Mr B feels that if there hadnt been a delay in the loss adjuster visiting the property, theyd 
have been in time to look at the gutters before they were thrown away. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, it doesnt look like Lloyds learned about the claim until around 25 April 
2019. This was some weeks after Mr B had first raised it with his broker. The loss adjuster 
was appointed about six days after Lloyds found out about the claim and after Lloyds had 
tried to assess it based solely on photos. So I dont think any delay in inspecting the property 
was down to Lloyds or the loss adjuster.
I understand Mr Bs questioned how I can find that the gutter damage is consistent with 
storm conditions, but then find the storm wasnt the main cause of that damage. I think 
damage to gutters and resulting internal water damage can broadly sometimes be found 
following periods of very heavy snow. So the type of damage seen could be consistent with 
storm. But in Mr Bs case, while the damage could be consistent with storm, I simply dont 
think it was the main or dominant cause of the damage. I think the storm simply highlighted 
the condition of the gutters at that time.
As I explained in my provisional decision, the only expert evidence I have to weigh up are 
the loss adjusters findings. I still think those findings are persuasive and backed up by the 
photos Ive seen. Im sorry that whats happened has caused Mr B to lose a couple of 
tenants. And I thank him for the offer of an affidavit from a former tenant to confirm there 
wasnt pre-existing damp.
But for Mr Bs claim to be covered, Lloyds needs to be satisfied it was down to a one-off 
event of storm. By Mr Bs own account, some of the damage was down to the way a 
neighbour had installed their own gutter. He also said, in response to my provisional 
decision, that the snow wasnt the only cause of the damage  it was down to following 
heavy rains. 
Based on the loss adjusters findings and the photographs Ive seen, I dont think its most 
likely the main cause of the damage was a one-off event caused by weight of snow. So I still 
think it was fair for Lloyds to turn down Mr Bs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman