DRN-4083303
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) charged him a policy excess for 
work he considered an extension of some earlier work.
What happened
Mr I had home emergency insurance underwritten by BG. He claimed under the policy after 
experiencing leaks from his radiators.
In summary, Mr I had four visits by BGs engineers. BG charged a £60 excess for each visit 
in line with the policy. BG waived the charges for two visits because of the time taken to 
replace a leaking radiator and for the inconvenience of having to reattend to fit a correctly 
sized radiator. Mr I paid the excess for repair of a leaking tap. However, he didnt agree with 
the invoice (ending 369) for installation of his hallway radiator. Mr I paid it in dispute.
BG was unable to source a correctly sized radiator for Mr Is hallway, so it fitted a different 
size as a temporary measure. Mr I bought the correct size and BG agreed to refund the 
purchase price. 
Mr I was unhappy with the time BG took to complete the work and the inconvenience it 
caused. BG offered £70 by way of apology, but Mr I didnt think that was enough.
Briefly, our investigator upheld Mr Is complaint and recommended that BG pay a total of 
£200 compensation. She also said BG should reimburse the cost of the radiator as 
previously agreed. However, our investigator thought BG charged the disputed excess fairly 
because BG completed additional work.
BG accepted the recommendation, but Mr I didnt think the disputed excess was valid 
because it was for the same work as the first, waived excess. He also said BG hadnt 
reimbursed the radiator cost, and he thought it should pay interest.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Is complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator 
gave, but I wont be asking BG to do any more than we have already proposed. Ill explain 
why.
As three of the invoices arent in dispute, Ill focus on the disputed excess.
Mr I doesnt think its reasonable for BG to charge the excess. My understanding of his 
complaint is that BG didnt complete a full and lasting repair on its first visit, so further 
damage happened to the radiators. When it sent engineers for repeat visits, Mr I thinks they 
shouldve been classed as part of the original claim. He doesnt see why BG should now be 
able to charge him the excess because the same shortfall which prompted BG to waive the 
excess in the first place still applies.
So, Ive thought about whether its reasonable to class the work relating to invoice 369 as a 
completely unrelated issue, therefore attracting an excess fee. I think it is for the following 
reasons:
During the visit, BG replaced the bedroom radiator which wasnt part of the original 
claim.
Although Mr I said BG over pressurised the system, causing the radiators to leak and 
therefore causing him to need a further repair, theres no evidence to support that.
BG confirmed that the normal pressure for a boiler is between 1 and 1.8 bars. So, if 
set to 1.5 bars, it wasnt over pressurised and shouldnt cause leaks.
BG also confirmed that the boiler has safety features which prevent the system from 
becoming over pressurised.
The evidence indicates that invoice 369 included work completely unrelated to the original 
claim for the hall radiator  that is, installation of a bedroom radiator. Therefore, I think its 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances that BG charged an excess fee for the new part of 
the claim.
 
Mr I was unhappy that BG hadnt reimbursed the cost of his hall radiator. He has since 
confirmed that BG made the payment to him. As this part of the complaint is resolved, I see 
no benefit in addressing it any further.
Mr I hasnt commented on the compensation proposed. Nevertheless, Ive thought about 
whether its reasonable in the circumstances and in line with what Id have required if BG 
hadnt already agreed to pay. In light of the time it took BG to fix the leak and repair or 
replace the radiators, and for the service shortfalls it acknowledged in its final response, Im 
satisfied that £200 compensation is fair and reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Is complaint and British 
Gas Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr I £200 compensation for the delays and service shortfalls in handling his 
claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman