DRN-2895455
The complaint
Mr B is a sole trader. He complains that Santander unfairly declined his application for a 
Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr B holds a personal account with Santander. He applied to the bank for a Bounce Back 
Loan of £7,000 on 19 June 2020. After this was declined, he made a second application for 
a loan of £10,000. This was also declined.
Mr B complained but Santander didnt change its decision. It said that it had correctly 
declined Mr Bs request as his application hadnt met the banks lending criteria. 
Mr B remained unhappy and referred his complaint to us. He said he met the Bounce Back 
Loan eligibility criteria and that, with guidance from the bank, hed provided additional 
information to support his second application. So he was unhappy that his application had 
still been declined, particularly as the loan was backed by a 100% guarantee from the 
government and the bank hadnt explained its reasons.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong. She said, in summary, that Santander had declined Mr Bs applications as theyd 
failed the checks it had to carry out under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules. Looking at 
the information that the bank had reviewed when assessing the application, she thought its 
decision was reasonable  and said it wasnt obliged to share any more information about 
this than it already had. 
As Mr B didnt accept our investigators view, his complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for much the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
While loans provided under both the Bounce Back Loan Scheme were backed by a 
government guarantee, lenders were still required to undertake certain checks before 
approving an application. These included Know Your Customer, anti-money laundering and 
anti-fraud checks. 
So even if Mr B met the criteria to be eligible for a Bounce Back Loan, his application would 
still need to pass the banks checks. Unfortunately though, his applications failed the banks 
checks  and so they were declined. Ive reviewed the information on which the banks 
decisions were based, and I think they were reasonable. 
I appreciate why Mr B would want to know more detail as to the reason behind Santanders 
decision. But Santander isnt required to share this and I cant fairly compel it to do so, 
particularly as information about how lenders reach such decisions is subject to some 
legitimate confidentiality. All I can do is reassure Mr B that Ive reviewed the banks actions 
carefully and am satisfied that it assessed his applications fairly.
Ive also considered what Mr B has said about the conversations he had with Santander 
about his applications. The bank seems to have recognised that, on the face of it, Mr B met 
the Bounce Back Loan eligibility criteria and that he was running his business through his 
personal account. So this further supported Mr Bs view that he was entitled to the loan. But 
as Ive explained, his applications still needed to pass the banks checks. This wasnt 
something that the bank could confirm until the application was submitted and reviewed  so 
I dont think Santander misled or misadvised Mr B in any way.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Santander did anything wrong in how it handled 
Mr Bs loan applications  so Im not requiring it to do anything to settle this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman