DRN-4344426
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander blocked his bank account causing him stress and financial 
losses. He says it then didnt provide the service it should have when he was trying to 
resolve the issue. 
What happened
Mr B says his transactions were stopped from his account and while he visited the branch 
with his identification documents on several occasions the issue wasnt resolved. He says 
that a staff member was rude to him and took a biased approach by not dealing with his 
issue and he feels if Santander had taken an interest in him this situation wouldnt have 
arisen. 
Mr B says this issue has meant he hasnt been able to pay for the basics he needs such as 
food and medicines as well as not be able to pay his priority bills. He says he also needed to 
travel back from overseas to deal with the issue and he wants the cost of his flight refunded.
Santander issued a final response letter dated 30 March 2023. It noted Mr Bs complaint that 
a number of faster payments were declined. It said that the transaction on 21 March 2023 
alerted its security system for further checks. It confirmed that Mr B spoke with its security 
team and that he attended a branch on 24 and 25 March to try to resolve the issue. It said 
that an alert was left on Mr Bs account on 29 March to confirm the activity was genuine and 
all temporary restrictions were removed. It appreciated the inconvenience caused by the 
delay in updating Mr Bs account and paid him £250 as an apology.
Mr B didnt consider the compensation paid sufficient and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Santander were entitled to block 
Mr Bs account while it carried out its fraud checks. He noted it had acknowledged the length 
of time the block was on the account, and he thought the compensation paid for this was 
reasonable. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. He said that the distress he had been caused and 
harassment suffered had been ignored and that the £250 paid by Santander wasnt enough 
given the mental agony he had suffered. He said the staff member at the branch didnt care 
about his issue. He says several blocks were applied to his account for the same reasons 
and he shouldnt have had to visit the branch on several occasions for the same checks. He 
said the issue had adversely affected his health and that while he had made the staff aware 
of his medical condition he was made to wait for long periods and wasnt treated 
sympathetically or as a priority.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr B is upset by the experience he had in March 2023 while trying to 
make some high value transactions. The account notes show that Mr Bs transactions were 
flagged for security checks, and he was required to contact Santander by phone and also 
referred to branch to provide copies of his identification documents to confirm the 
transactions were genuine. While I understand this will have caused Mr B some 
inconvenience, Santander is required to have security systems in place for the protection of 
its customers. The account terms and conditions explain Santander can refuse to make a 
payment if they reasonably suspect it relates to fraud or any other criminal act and in this 
case, I find it acted in line with its processes by applying the temporary blocks to the 
transactions until Mr B had confirmed these as genuine.
I have looked through the actions taken once the transactions were confirmed as genuine 
and can see that the block applied on 21 March 2023 remained until 29 March 2023. During 
this time Mr B had made two visits to the branch to try to resolve the issue. He provided his 
identification documents and has said that the staff member he dealt with was rude and he 
felt he was being ignored while the staff member dealt with other customers ahead of him.
Santander has accepted that there was a delay in the block being removed from Mr Bs 
account and explained the block should have been lifted on 24 March, but this didnt happen 
until 29 March. Given this, and also taking Mr Bs testimony of the service he received in 
branch into account, I agree that Santander didnt provide the service it should have at this 
time.
Santander acknowledged the inconvenience caused by the delay in the block being lifted 
and paid Mr B £250 because of this. I understand that Mr B doesnt think this payment is 
enough and has explained the stress he was caused and the wider impact this has had. 
When considering what is a reasonable amount of compensation, I take into account any 
financial loss that has been suffered as a result of any mistakes made by the bank and also 
the distress and inconvenience that the customer has been caused. In this case Mr Bs 
transaction was blocked on 21 March and the block wasnt removed until 29 March. Mr B 
initially said that the block on his account meant he wasnt able to pay for essentials such as 
food and medicines and he couldnt pay his priority bills. However, Santander has confirmed 
that the block didnt prevent Mr B making card transactions or affect his direct debits and I 
can see from his account that he was able to make payments during this period. 
Mr B has also said that he needed to return from overseas in May 2023 to sort out the issues 
on his account. However, I do not find I have enough evidence to say this cost should be 
refunded. Looking at Mr Bs account, he was able to make transactions and transfers on his 
account after the block was lifted on 29 March and while he was overseas.  
I have noted Mr Bs comment about the distress and inconvenience he was caused. I can 
see he needed to make two visits to a branch in regard to this transaction and I am sorry to 
hear of the service he received at the time. However, taking everything into account and 
noting that the block was removed on 29 March at which point Mr B was able to make a 
large transfer, I find that the compensation paid by Santander in this case is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc isnt required to do anything further in resolution 
of this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman