DRN-2657199
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim under his motor 
insurance policy. 
 
What happened
Mr M was involved in a minor collision at a roundabout. There wasnt any damage to his car, 
but the third party made a claim against him. Mr M is unhappy AXA settled the claim on a 
split liability basis (50/50). 
Mr M is also unhappy AXA didnt let him know the outcome of the claim. He only found out 
when he looked to move his insurance away from AXA and noticed it was listed on his 
documentation.  Mr M is concerned about what could have happened if hed moved insurers 
without correctly declaring the outcome of the claim. 
AXA apologised for its lack of communication and offered Mr M £150 compensation. 
Our investigator thought AXA had done enough to put things right, so she didnt recommend 
the complaint be upheld.  Mr M asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
The case has come to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Most motor insurance policies contain a term which says the insurer can take over and deal 
with the claim in the way it sees fit. It isnt for this service to decide who is liable for an 
accident, however we do look at whether the insurer has acted reasonably in reaching its 
decision. 
I understand there were no witnesses to the collision and essentially it came down to one 
persons word against the other. AXA took the decision to settle it on a split liability basis. I 
think this was a reasonable thing to do. With no additional evidence to definitely conclude 
which party was responsible, the costs of pursuing the matter further without guarantee of 
recovering those, isnt something Id expect a privately paying person to do. So I dont think it 
would be reasonable to expect an insurer to either.
AXA has accepted it should have let Mr M know the outcome of the claim.  Mr M has 
explained that the potential consequences of incorrectly declaring the claim outcome to a 
new insurer is what has concerned him the most.  
I do appreciate why Mr M would have been worried about this. Thankfully this didnt happen 
as Mr M found out before he changed his insurer, so he was able to give the correct 
information.  
AXA offered Mr M £150 compensation, I think this is a fair amount that reasonably reflects 
the trouble and upset he was caused by its error. So, I wont be asking AXA to pay any 
additional compensation. As a service we dont fine or punish businesses for doing 
something wrong, this isnt within our remit to do.  In this instance, I think AXA has 
recognised its error and offered Mr M a sufficient amount of compensation to put the matter 
right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman