DRN-3614321
The complaint
Mr H complains that Five Lamps Trading Ltd (Five Lamps) provided him with credit he 
couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Five Lamps approved a loan of £500 for Mr H in June 2020. The loan was to be repaid at 
£101.25 per month over a six month period.
Mr H says they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
Five Lamps disagree. They say that when they approved the loan they used a combination 
of credit reference agency and self-reported information to assess the application. They say 
that they checked a pay slip to confirm Mr H was earning about £2,594 per month and they 
also reviewed Mr Hs credit file which didnt show any adverse information. They thought the 
credit was therefore affordable for him.
Our investigator didnt agree and as Five Lamps didnt respond to his view the complaint has 
been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I think Five Lamps completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the 
loan, but I think the information it collected should have told them the loan wasnt affordable.
The credit file showed them that Mr H had taken out a considerable amount of recent credit. 
In the six months prior to his application for this loan hed entered into agreements for six  
other loans that he was still paying towards and which had a total balance of a little under 
£12,000. Hed also opened a mail order account where hed quickly accrued a balance of 
£900. There was also evidence Mr H had recently been over limit on his credit card. I think 
that information suggested an over reliance on credit and even without other checks I think 
that was sufficient information to suggest it would not be responsible to create further 
indebtedness with an additional loan. 
So, I think this loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr H.
Putting things right
As I dont think Five Lamps should have approved the loan I dont think its fair for it to 
charge any interest or charges. However, Mr H has had the benefit of the capital he lent so I 
think he should pay that back. Therefore, Five Lamps Trading Ltd should:
Deduct the repayments Mr H made from the amount he was lent.
If this results in Mr H having paid more than he received, any overpayments
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Five Lamps should attempt to 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr H.
Remove any negative information they may have recorded on Mr Hs credit file 
relating to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it 
does, the business must give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Five Lamps Trading Ltd to put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman