DRN-1095681
 
The complaint
Ms Ns complaint is about a missing cheque payment into her credit card account.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms N posted a cheque to Nationwide to pay off her credit card but despite the money 
being debited from her account the payment wasnt credited to her credit card 
account. She contacted Nationwide to find out what had happened. 
Its clear Nationwide couldve handled some aspects of this matter better at times, for 
example, when communicating with Ms N. But it traced the money and applied it to 
her credit card account within 10 days. 
Nationwide has also taken what I consider are reasonable steps to put things right. It 
backdated the payment to the date the cheque was posted and adjusted the interest 
on Ms Ns credit card. It has also offered to pay her £75 compensation for the 
inconvenience she experienced. Nationwide has also added that Ms Ns credit file 
hasnt been affected.
I realise Ms N remains unhappy, considers she was treated abhorrently and says she 
suffered severe anxiety due to the loss of the cheque. But taking everything into 
account, including the level of awards we make and the fact Nationwide resolved 
things and put them right within a reasonably short period, I dont think I can fairly 
require it to do anything more or differently, including paying Ms N any more 
compensation than it has already offered.
 
For these reasons, although I recognise Ms Ns strength of feeling and frustration, I do not 
uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to her to decide, if she hasnt already done so, if she 
wants to accept Nationwides offer of compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman