DRN-3142595
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited has wrongly recorded 
information about his credit status. 
What happened
Mr H had running account credit with Shop Direct, opened in January 2017. His account was 
open-ended with a credit limit and he was to make minimum payments each month, 
calculated by reference to his account balance from time to time. 
Mr H ran into financial difficulties and was the subject of a bankruptcy order. At the time he 
owed Shop Direct some £830. He was discharged from bankruptcy in September 2019, but 
it seems that Shop Direct was not notified until July 2020.
Shop Directs records show that it notified credit reference agencies of the discharge and 
indicated that the date on which the debt was satisfied should be backdated to 15 
September 2019  the date on which Mr H was discharged from bankruptcy. 
Mr H noticed however that his entry with one credit reference agency, which Ill call E, had 
not been amended. Instead, the information recorded by E appears to change on a regular 
basis. Mr H complained to Shop Direct. It said, however, that it had supplied accurate 
information to E, but it appeared that E was having difficulty updating its own information. Mr 
H referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. She concluded that Shop Direct 
had provided the correct information but that Es records did not reflect that. It was not 
therefore Shop Directs fault if there was an error in what E was reporting. She suggested 
that Mr H contact E to try to resolve things, but he was unwilling to do so. He did not accept 
the investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am dealing in this decision only with Mr Hs complaint about Shop Direct, not with any 
complaint he might have about E. This service can deal with some complaints about credit 
reference agencies, including complaints about E, but I make no comment on its actions, 
save to say that Mr H may be able to refer a complaint about E to us, if he wishes to do so.
Mr Hs complaint is that E has recorded (and, as far as I am aware, continues to record) 
incorrect information about his dealings with Shop Direct under the credit agreement they 
entered into in January 2017. He says that Shop Direct is responsible for that. 
The investigator was satisfied that Shop Direct had made arrangements with a number of 
credit reference agencies to have Mr Hs information updated but that E was having 
difficulties updating its own information. It would not be fair to hold Shop Direct responsible 
for any delay on the part of E. 
I too am satisfied that Shop Direct provided correct information to E. There is no reason to 
think it provided different information to different credit reference agencies, and I note that 
there is no complaint about the information held by other agencies. Shop Directs own 
records show that it amended the information it held when it was made aware of the date on 
which the bankruptcy was discharged, and I think it more likely than not that it passed that 
information to the relevant agencies. 
I note too that Shop Direct paid Mr H £50 in recognition of the way it handled the complaint, 
and I think that is a fair resolution in the circumstances.        
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman