DRN-3021147
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to update Mrs Ms change of 
address which resulted in her debit card and other documents being sent to their old 
address.  
What happened
In August 2020 Mr M contacted HSBC to advise that he and his wife had moved house and 
updated their address details. HSBC updated Mr Ms details, but not those of his wife who 
was the joint account holder. 
HSBC continued to send Mrs Ms correspondence to their old address until May 2021, 
including a new debit card and some letters. When they discovered this had happened, Mr 
and Mrs M complained to HSBC. HSBC spoke to Mr M on 26 May 2021 and offered him 
£100 compensation to resolve the complaint. Mr M declined this payment and brought their 
complaint to us.  
While they were waiting for us to consider the complaint, Mr M rang HSBC on 7 July 2021 
and advised that he was not happy with the resolution and that he was coming to us. The 
call handler credited Mr M with £50. Mr M then rang again later the same day about the time 
it had taken to deal with their complaint and the call handler credited Mr M with a further £50 
for delay and another £50 for inconvenience. The following day on 8 July, Mr M rang again 
about his complaint from the day before and was not happy to find that his customer service 
complaint had not been logged. He was given a further £100 as a final resolution for all his 
complaints and he confirmed he was happy with this. 
On the same day it appears that HSBC issued a further written response. It explained that 
joint account holders need to notify changes of address separately. They changed Mr Ms 
details when he rang but didnt change Mrs Ms as they didnt have her permission and she 
didnt call herself.  
HSBC confirmed that they had listened to the call Mr M made in August 2020 and although 
he said we have moved to a new house, he didnt mention that his wife is was joint account 
holder and so the call handler therefore didnt know to advise him that his wife needed to call 
in separately. They couldnt take instructions from one party on a joint account. HSBC 
concluded in this letter that there was no bank error and the original offer of £100 made in 
May 2021 to resolve the complaint was therefore withdrawn.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Ms case. He thought that HSBC had acted 
in a fair and reasonable manner.  
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision which is why it has come to me to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I have to consider whether HSBC have acted fairly and in line with their policies and 
processes. I have considered the information they have provided and listened to the calls. 
HSBCs policy on changing addresses for customers says that If the customer has 
requested that the address be updated for a joint party on the account, advise the customer 
that the joint party will need to contact us separately to update their details. 
During the call that Mr M made to HSBC to change his details, he didnt specifically mention 
changing the details for his wife, and so the HSBC call handler only changed Mr Ms details 
on the account. However, at the start of the call he does say that We have just moved 
house and he needs to update our address. In terms of the policy, it makes sense that 
HSBC do not automatically update the details of all parties to joint account when one party 
notifies a change of address, as some people can share accounts without living in the same 
house. Changing someones personal details without their authority would be a breach of 
data protection provisions. I therefore find that the call handler has followed the policy 
appropriately and I agree with HSBC that there is no error on their part in that regard. 
However, as Mr M refers to us and our in the call I can also understand why Mr M made 
the assumption that HSBC would change the details for both himself and his wife following 
his call. I also think that as the call handler would have seen that it was a joint account for a 
Mr and Mrs M and so it would have been helpful if the call handler had pointed out to Mr M 
that this would only update his details and not the details of anyone else on the account. So, 
I think that although there seems to have been a misunderstanding rather than an error in 
following process, HSBC did have an opportunity to provide better information and service to 
Mr M and didnt do so. 
Following the address not being updated I can see that various documents were sent to Mrs 
Ms old address by the bank, and Mr M is concerned that this is a breach of the data 
protection provisions.  I can see that some, if not all of these documents were returned to the 
bank unopened, including the debit card, and that HSBC have appropriately followed their 
own reporting process for the potential data breach. It is for HSBC rather than us to assess 
the extent of that breach and make any appropriate report to the Information Commissioners 
Office. I can consider whether there has been any detriment to Mr and Mrs M as a result of 
the breach, for which they should be compensated, but I have not been made aware of any 
and so I dont propose to make any award in respect of that.   
I can see that initially HSBC offered Mr M £100 for the customer service but that he rejected 
this and it was subsequently withdrawn. I think this original offer would have been fair for the 
missed opportunity to assist Mr M during the original call. Although this offer was withdrawn, 
I can see that HSBC then went on to pay Mr M a total of £250 over 7 and 8 July 2021 in 
respect of this complaint. It isnt clear from the notes provided exactly whether this payment was for the original complaint, or whether it was because of the delay in processing the 
original complaint, but it appears to be a holistic approach to resolve the complaint and is 
purported in the notes to be for all his complaints.  
In view of that I think that the £250 Mr and Mrs M have received is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and provides adequate compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
caused by the missed opportunity to provide better information to Mr M in August 2020. In 
view of that I wont be recommending HSBC do anything further. 
    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint 
about HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman