DRN-3416479
The complaint
Mr A complains that he wasnt informed thered be an early exit charge if he transferred his 
pension plan (originally with Allied Dunbar and now with Zurich Assurance Ltd) prior to his 
selected retirement age (SRA). 
For convenience Ive just referred below to Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich). References to 
Zurich should be taken to include Allied Dunbar where appropriate. 
What happened
Mr As personal pension started on 1 June 1989. His SRA was age 60. Mr A says he was 
told at the time that he could transfer the plan in the future without penalty. But in 2020, 
when Mr A reviewed his pension arrangements with a financial adviser, he became aware 
there was an early exit charge if he transferred before his SRA. 
Mr A complained to Zurich. It said the charge  taken by reducing the number of capital units 
paid out  was in line with the terms and conditions and had been explained in the literature 
provided to Mr A at the outset. Zurich said Mr A hadnt been misled and hed made an 
informed decision to go ahead.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In brief she said it seemed the sale was advised 
but the plan wasnt unsuitable. She set out how it worked, including that Mr As contributions 
initially purchased capital units and then accumulation units. She said the product particulars 
booklet explained the charges. In particular, the section about Taking Benefits Early 
explained that, if a customer took their benefits before their SRA, the value of the fund 
available would be the full value of the accumulation units and a percentage of the capital 
units. This percentage was determined on an actuarial basis and would depend on how 
close to their SRA the customer was. 
The section headed Transfer Values confirmed that any amount available for transfer would 
be calculated the same way. The investigator acknowledged that the charging structure 
wasnt straightforward but the plan had been set up over thirty years ago. The early exit 
charge had been set out in the booklet and, if it was in contraction to what Mr A had been 
told, he couldve raised that.
Mr As representative didnt agree. He said that historic misdemeanours had led to advisers 
becoming heavily qualified and intensely regulated. The adviser had filled out the application 
form so badly that the level of service (advised or non advised) was unclear. The booklet 
was complicated and Mr A had simply asked if he could transfer without charges and was 
told he could which had affected his decision to take out the plan. Ensuring the product had 
no penalties was a key factor in Mr As decision making and hed been misinformed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the views expressed by the investigator and the reasons she 
gave as to why the complaint couldnt be upheld. I dont have much to add. 
I dont think the plan was unsuitable for Mr A from the general perspective that a need to 
make provision for retirement had been identified. Mr A wasnt a member of an employers 
pension scheme so it was sensible for him to start saving for his retirement. And the 
contributions to the personal pension were affordable, as evidenced by the fact that Mr A 
increased his payments and maintained them until 1998 when he joined his employers 
pension scheme. 
The issue is what Mr A was told about transferring his plan. The plan was taken out over 
thirty years ago in 1989. Its not going to be possible to say now, with certainty, so many 
years after the event, exactly what was said. In that sort of situation  where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of all the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr As recollection is that he was told thered be no penalty if he decided, in the future, to 
transfer his plan. Mr As representative has explained that it was a key factor in Mr As 
decision to go ahead with the plan. So, on the one hand, as it was important to him, its likely 
that Mr A wouldve raised the matter. And its possible he was told, incorrectly, that there 
was no penalty if he transferred before SRA. But, on the other hand, I dont immediately see 
why the adviser wouldve said something which contradicted the written information Mr A 
was given. Id have thought it more likely that the discussions wouldve been based on what 
the literature said. I also think, as the matter was important, Mr A wouldve paid some 
attention to the written information he received. And that hed have wanted to check that it 
reflected what hed been told. 
Ive seen the product particulars booklet. Theres a section headed Transfer Values on 
page 9. It said that the amount available for transfer will be calculated in the same was early 
retirement benefits which were set out above. That section, headed Taking Benefits Early 
said, if benefits were taken before the SRA, the value of the fund available would be the full 
bid value of the accumulation units together with a percentage of the capital units allocated 
to the plan, with the actual percentage depending on the unexpired period to SRA. 
In my view, the booklet was relatively straightforward and easy to understand and navigate. I 
think, on a fairly cursory reading, the relevant section  about transfer values  couldve 
been easily identified. And the paragraph was relatively short, as was the section referred to 
about taking benefits earlier. That paragraph clearly set out that, where benefits were taken 
before SRA (and that applied to a transfer before SRA too) that only a percentage of the 
capital units would be paid. So it was clear that some charge or penalty would apply. I dont 
think its a question of hiding behind the paperwork. In some cases, the relevant information 
might be buried and/or expressed in terms that might be difficult to follow. But here, as Ive 
said, the relevant sections were easily located and readily understandable. 
Mr As representative has pointed to the application form having been poorly completed as 
evidence that the service/advice Mr A received was inadequate. But Mr As complaint is 
about the early exit charge. Ive considered the evidence which is directly relevant to that 
issue. I think the penalty was disclosed and Mr A was in a position to make an informed 
choice before deciding to go ahead with the plan.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman