DRN-3572101
The complaint
Mr C complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited (trading as Chase) didnt make a payment 
to the merchant so he had to repurchase his train tickets which cost him more.
What happened
Mr C says he purchased some train tickets using the train service providers website. He 
says the purchase was completed and he received a notification from Chase that the 
transaction had completed. 
Mr C says he made a payment of over £30 to the train company. The day before he was due 
to travel he realised he hadnt received his tickets so he contacted the train company to 
check where they were. 
The train company told Mr C they couldnt locate his purchase of the ticket and so he would 
need to buy a new one. Mr C says by this point the ticket was twice the cost of the original 
one. Since Mr C had to travel he had no choice but to purchase the tickets at the higher 
price. 
Mr C says that this happened twice. And so he complained to his bank and to the train 
company, neither of which have accepted responsibility. Mr C also says he wasnt able to 
complain to his bank properly as a result if the banks set up. And so he doesnt feel his 
complaint has been dealt with properly. 
Chase said when Mr C purchased the tickets in November the transaction was pre-
authorised by the bank and the merchant then had 30 days to claim the funds. Chase said 
the merchant didnt attempt to claim the funds and the 30 days ran out.  So the original error 
for the transaction was made by the merchant and the complaint wasnt upheld. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the outcome of the complaint and so referred it to this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for him and didnt uphold the complaint. She said whilst she 
could understand the situation was stressful for Mr C she couldnt see that the bank had 
done anything wrong. It had held the payment for 30 days as it was obligated to do and it 
was for the train company to then request the funds, which it didnt do. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view. He said Chase hadnt acted fairly and had 
misled him. Mr C said the transactions appeared as cleared when they were actually 
pending. Had he been aware the payments were pending he says he could have chased it 
up with the train company. Mr C argued he was made worse off by the information provided 
by Chase and ended up paying double for his ticket. And so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have summarised the events here, I want to assure both parties that Ive reviewed 
the evidence Ive been provided. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues.
The systems which allow consumers to make payments using a card are complicated, 
especially behind the scenes. There are a lot of different companies involved. There is the 
card issuer, the retailer, the retailers bank, and the card network (Mastercard) for a start. 
Often there are other companies involved as well in processing the transactions. And all of 
the movement of data involved in the authorisation and processing of these transactions will 
be dependent on the internet/network connections between the various participants. 
In short, there are a lot of points in the chain where something could go wrong and not all of 
them would be Chases responsibility. It is also not clear that the issue in processing the 
transaction was caused by Chase. 
When Mr C made the payment for the tickets Chase accepted the transaction by 
Mastercard. It was the train company who then didnt claim the funds as they should have 
done. I cant reasonably hold the bank responsible for that. 
I understand Mr Cs underlying point, which is that you would generally expect to see a card 
payment showing at least as a pending transaction more or less as soon as you make it. But 
there is no specific obligation for a bank to make this information instantly available. Chase 
doesnt promise this in its terms and conditions either. It follows that I dont think Chase has 
done anything wrong here. 
Complaint handling 
Mr C has said he doesnt think Chase answered his complaint properly. Complaint handling 
is not something this service can generally consider as its not a regulated activity. 
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman