DRN-2108969
The complaint
Mr S complains that Quidie (trading as Fernovo) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S took out a total of four loans with Quidie between September 2018 and June 2019.
Loan Date borrowed Date repaid Amount No. of 
instalments
1 10.09.18 28.10.18 £250 2
2 25.11.18 28.02.19 £150 3
3 28.02.19 22.05.19 £250 3
4 10.06.19 02.10.19 £200 4
Mr S repaid all the loans, but he believes Quidie was irresponsible to lend to him. He says 
he was in a vicious circle of repaying and reborrowing loans. And he believes that it would 
have been obvious to Quidie if it had carried out proper checks that he had serious financial 
problems.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary he didnt 
think that proportionate checks would have revealed that the loans were unsustainable for 
Mr S.
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Quidie on 16 July 2020. I summarise my findings:
I explained that weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term 
lending  including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Quidie needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
that Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quidie should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought that it was important for me to start by saying that Quidie was required to 
establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow that 
this was the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, or 
it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ss complaint.
Quidie performed some checks before it lent to Mr S. It asked him for details of his 
regular monthly income and expenditure. And it checked Mr Ss credit file each time.
I didnt think the level of checks that Quidie carried out before making the first loan was 
unreasonable in itself. But it was important that Quidie look carefully at the information it 
obtained from its checks before deciding whether to lend.
Id looked at the credit report Quidie got before making the first loan. It showed that Mr S 
had opened 27 accounts in the previous six months. Thats a relatively high number. 
More importantly, the credit report that Quidie obtained showed that when Mr S applied 
for loan 1, he already had 14 on-going unsecured loans. One of those is shown as an 
advance against income, indicating that it was a short-term loan. But the amounts of 
the loans and the regular repayments shown on the credit report suggested to me that it 
was likely that the 13 other unsecured loans were also short-term loans.
The credit report showed a large number of closed loan accounts too. And it was 
apparent that Mr S had been taking out frequent short-term loans for some considerable 
time.
Mr Ss credit file didnt show any defaults registered in the previous 12 months, or any 
signs of insolvency. But I thought it painted a clear picture of someone who was having 
significant problems managing his money. And I thought Quidie should have realised 
that it was likely that Mr S was having to borrow repeatedly to cover the hole in his 
finances that repaying previous loans had left.So I thought the results of the credit checks that Quidie carried out ought to have alerted 
it to the likelihood that Mr S would be unable to repay the loans sustainably. The longest 
gap between Mr S repaying one loan from Quidie and applying for the next was less 
than a month. And the credit reports obtained by Quidie on each subsequent application 
showed that Mr Ss financial situation hadnt improved materially.
Taking everything into account, I didnt think Quidie should have made any of the loans 
to Mr S. And I thought it should put things right by doing as set out below.
further submissions
Mr S has told us that he has nothing further to add. Quidie hasnt commented on my 
provisional decision, and the time for doing so has now expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
I dont think Quidie should have made any of the loans to Mr S. So Quidie should:
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 1 to 4 inclusive;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on the refunded interest and charges from the 
dates they were paid to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about loans 1 to 4 from Mr Ss credit file;
HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidie to take off tax from this interest. Quidie must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Quidie Limited (trading as Fernovo) to 
put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman