DRN-3707787
The complaint
Mr A complains National Westminster Bank Plc refused to refund three payments he says he 
didnt make.
What happened
The background which led to Mr A bringing this complaint to our service is well known to 
both parties, so I wont repeat everything here. In summary, Mr A holds a business account 
with NatWest. 
In early July 2021 three payments debited Mr As account which he disputes making. Two of 
the payments required both the card NatWest sent to Mr A and his self-selected PIN, and 
the other payment required access to his online banking. 
The alleged fraud took place the month after Mr A says someone tried to take out a loan in 
his name with NatWest, and he says he is the victim of broader identify theft beyond his 
relationship with NatWest.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Mr A rejected their conclusions and asked for a 
final decision from an ombudsman, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 NatWest should refund payments 
Mr A didnt make or allow someone else to make. So, I need to decide whether its more or 
less likely that he made the payments.
On balance, I find its more likely than not that Mr A made the payments, or someone made 
the payments with his knowledge. Ill explain why:
There were approximately six different mobile devices registered on Mr As account 
between April and June 2021, but he insists he only used one device from a 
particular manufacturer. For each mobile that was registered one-time passcodes 
would have been sent to the mobile number associated with his account  the 
number which belonged to Mr A. The codes were needed to access his mobile 
banking on the other mobile phones, along with knowledge of his NatWest online 
security information (his customer number, online PIN and password).
The only realistic ways someone could have obtained the passcodes would have 
been because they had regular access to Mr As phone to intercept the messages, or 
a SIM swap occurred, whereby Mr As phone number was set up on a different 
device. In both instances, that person would still have needed to know Mr As online 
security information. 
Mr A told NatWest that he had some connection issues with his mobile. But 
NatWests records show Mr As mobile was used during periods when some of the 
other mobiles were registered, which points to him being able to use his phone - and, 
a successful SIM swap would have likely meant he couldnt use his phone at all. On 
balance, I find its unlikely a SIM swap occurred.
There were prolonged periods when other mobile devices were registered to Mr As 
account where no disputed payments occurred. I find it odd that unauthorised 
payments werent attempted if someone accessed Mr As account on multiple other 
mobiles without his permission. Although not always the case, fraudsters will 
generally try to make off with as much as they can in as short a time as possible.
Mr A says he has fallen victim to repeated fraud because of his identity being stolen. 
He has my sympathy if this is the case. But this still doesnt satisfactorily explain how 
someone knew his self-selected NatWest card PIN number or unique online security 
information. He says a loan application with NatWest was put through which 
represented identity theft, but again I cant see how his unique card PIN number 
would have been obtained through the application process.
Two of the payments Mr A disputes needed his physical card and PIN to carry out 
them out. Mr A says NatWest agreed to send him a new card PIN and card (which he 
also says he didnt receive) after the attempt to take a NatWest loan out in his name. 
But NatWests records do not show a new PIN was sent. Neither have I seen any 
online PIN reminders were requested, and the last time Mr A changed his card PIN 
was in 2019. So, I fail to see how a fraudster could have known his card PIN even if 
someone intercepted his card in the post.
Mr A believes it wouldnt have proven too difficult for his online banking security 
details to have been obtained to access his account. But while some personal 
information can be more readily obtainable, such as someones address and date of 
birth, I have seen no records to show online security information reminders were 
requested in the way Mr A suggests.
For the reasons I have given, I am not going to direct NatWest to refund the payments Mr A 
disputes making or to pay him compensation.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman