DRN-4404909
The complaint
Ms P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her savings account without telling her 
and this meant she was unable to access her savings when she needed to pay some bills.
What happened
When Ms P called Barclays in early February 2023, she said she hadnt received a 
statement since 2019 and wanted to check if she could still pay money into the account. 
Barclays told Ms P that the account had been closed since 2019. Ms P complained that 
shed not been told about this and asked if she could receive the balance plus interest as 
she needed to use the funds to pay bills. Barclays said Ms P could visit a local branch and 
complete the necessary documents so that the funds could be sent to her. Ms P said she 
wasnt able to get to a branch because of her disability, so Barclays provided details of how 
she could apply for the funds on-line. Barclays told Ms P it would take up to three-months for 
the funds to be sent to her and Ms P explained this would cause her financial difficulties as 
she had bills to pay. 
Ms P completed the on-line dormant account form and after Barclays confirmed receipt it 
asked for the details of the account Ms P wanted the funds to be sent to. The funds, plus 
accrued interest from when the account was closed, were sent to Ms Ps account in May.
Ms P bought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything significantly wrong when it made a commercial decision to close the account, and 
there was evidence Barclays had provided Ms P with written notice it intended it close the 
account  and even though Ms P says she never received the letter, this wasnt the fault of 
Barclays.
Ms P asked for an Ombudsman to decide the complaint and it was passed to me to 
consider. I reviewed the evidence and comments provided and decided that I needed to 
listen to the telephone call between Ms P and Barclays in February 2023 so that I could 
make a fair and reasonable decision. This telephone call has led me to reach a significantly 
different conclusion to the Investigator, so I decided to issue a provisional decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
I understand that Ms P will be disappointed, but I intend saying Barclays didnt do 
anything significantly wrong when it decided to close her savings account. The 
account hadnt been used by Ms P since 2015 and in July 2019, Barclays wrote to 
Ms P to ask if she still needed the account. I empathise with Ms P that she never 
received this letter, but Im satisfied Barclays more likely than not sent it to her 
correct address. I intend saying that Barclays provided the notice required to close 
the account - and the reason why it was closing the account - and when it didnt 
receive a response, it closed the account in line with its current procedures. The 
balance was held in a dormant account in line with Barclays procedures.
In the telephone call on 3 February 2023, which Barclays has now provided, Barclays 
initially told Ms P she could apply for the funds to be released if she went into a 
branch, and the funds would be released in about three-months. Ms P explained she 
had a disability that prevented her from visiting a branch, and that she needed the 
funds urgently as she had bills to pay. Barclays acknowledged Ms P couldnt go into 
a branch and immediately explained Ms P could complete the necessary paperwork 
on-line.
Barclays received an on-line application for the funds from Ms P on 13 March but 
required details of where Ms P wanted the funds to be paid. Barclays received the 
account details from Ms P on 22 March and the funds, plus interest, were sent to the 
account in early May. I intend saying that Barclays did process the release of the 
funds in line with its procedures at the time. However, Ive not seen any evidence to 
suggest Barclays took into account Ms Ps request for the funds to be prioritised as 
she had bills to pay  instead Barclays repeated the timescale was three-months. 
Barclays didnt address Ms Ps request in the summary resolution letter it issued to 
Ms P on 3 February, and I intend saying Barclays should have considered this. Ms P 
says that she had to ask for money from her family to help her pay these bills. I 
intend saying Barclays failure to take Ms Ps circumstances into account caused her 
distress and inconvenience over and above what I consider to be reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons outlined above, I intend asking Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Ms P 
£100.
Barclays says it accepts my provisional decision. Ms P says she believes £100 in 
compensation isnt enough to recognise that Barclays didnt pay her the amount it should 
have, and that Barclays didnt take into account the Equality Act 2010 and make reasonable 
adjustments for her disability when dealing with the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the telephone call on 3 February was particularly helpful to Ms P. Barclays gave 
some conflicting information, but overall, Im persuaded Barclays made it reasonably clear to 
Ms P that if she couldnt attend a local branch, she could request the funds on-line. Barclays 
were reasonably clear that the request would be dealt with within 12 weeks, or three-months. 
 and Barclays did deal with the request in the time it said it would.
Ive looked at the amount Barclays paid Ms P and Im persuaded that this reflects the 
interest on Ms Ps balance until the time it was paid to her. In the telephone call on 3 
February Barclays said the balance on the account was £1,196 when it was actually £1,106. 
However, the statements Ive seen make it reasonably clear Barclays made a mistake on 
this call and this may have caused Ms P some confusion at the time.
Ms P believes that Barclays should have updated her and told her the funds had been 
released. I acknowledge that this may have been what Ms P expected, but I would only 
reasonably have expected Barclays to contact Ms P if there was a possibility of the funds not 
being released before the end of the three-months.
Ms P says that Barclays failed to make reasonable adjustments for her. In other words, 
Barclays failed its duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. Ive 
taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its 
relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. 
If Ms P wants a decision that Barclays has breached the Equality Act 2010, then she needs 
to go to Court.Putting things right
Having considered the comments Ms P and Barclays provided, Ive decided to adopt my 
provisional decision as my final decision. I think a payment of £100 reflects the somewhat 
confusing comments Barclays provided in the 3 February telephone call, which would have 
been upsetting for Ms P in view of her health condition. But I think it also takes into account 
that Barclays provided a reasonable alternative to Ms P visiting a local branch when Ms P 
explained her existing health condition. Barclays says it will pay the remedy I direct into the 
account it paid the refund, but Ms P may want to confirm the account details with Barclays 
directly if she accepts my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Ms P 
£100 to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman