DRN-2095501
The complaint
Miss W complains about the service provided by Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax 
during an appointment to review her mortgage interest rate.
What happened
In November 2018 Miss W had a meeting in branch with Halifax to discuss options for 
reducing her mortgage interest rate. During the appointment Miss W was asked if shed 
been known by any other names in the past.
Miss W says she took offence to being asked this question as shed long moved on from her 
previous marriage, and her ex-partner has no relevance to her existing financial agreements. 
She also said this question was a breach of relevant data protection laws.
Halifax said the question was asked as part of the normal mortgage review process and is 
something it would ask all customers for the same type of review. But it apologised for any 
upset caused and awarded her £100 for this and not rearranging a follow up appointment 
sooner than it did. 
Miss W wasnt satisfied with this answer, saying it had caused her distress and the staff had 
been rude in handling her objections. She has asked for further compensation and a written 
apology from the bank manager for their specific actions (including discussing her complaint 
in the presence of other customers).
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said the question about previous names 
formed part of Halifaxs mortgage review process and didnt agree it had done anything 
wrong by asking it. He also felt the compensation award was fair, and above what he 
wouldve recommended  taking into account everything that happened.
Miss W didnt agree with our investigator, reiterating her concerns. So this case has been 
passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions on this complaint as our investigator.
The crux of this complaint centres on whether Halifax was able to ask Miss W details about 
any former names she may have had. Shes said this question was a breach of respective 
data protection and human rights laws.
While our service will consider the law when looking at cases, it would typically be the role of 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) or that of a court to respectively determine 
whether there has been a breach of the laws Miss W refers to. 
My role is to consider whether Halifax has treated Miss W fairly and reasonably during the 
mortgage review meeting in question, taking everything into account (including the relevant 
laws). Halifax has said the question about previous names is a standard part of the 
questions it asks during a review of that nature, and is something it would ask all customers 
undertaking a similar review. 
It is not uncommon for businesses to ask about previous names where finance and possible 
credit checks are concerned. So, Im satisfied what Halifax has said is correct. Although Ive 
considered Miss Ws strong feelings on the matter, I dont agree Halifax has made a mistake 
or treated her unfairly by asking her the question about previous names.
Miss W raised further concerns about the attitude of the staff, including the branch manager, 
she spoke to on the day. Halifax has said its staff tried to support Miss W and Ive not seen 
enough to safely conclude it didnt do this. 
In any case, taking all of Miss Ws concerns into account, Im satisfied Halifaxs apology for 
any upset caused and £100 in compensation is fair compensation in the circumstances. So 
Im not asking Halifax to do anything further. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax has made an offer to pay £100. I conclude that such 
an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Halifax should 
pay Miss W £100 if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman