DRN-4391052
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined a 
claim they made on their home insurance policy after they lost some rings. 
For ease of reference, and as hes been most involved with this complaint, Ill refer to Mr T 
throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr T has a home insurance policy with Lloyds. The policy provides cover for both buildings 
and contents. 
Mr T made a claim for three lost rings to Lloyds. He says the claim was immediately declined 
on the basis the rings had been misplaced rather than lost. Mr T says Lloyds fixed on the 
idea that Mrs T removed her rings at home, before they couldnt be located. 
Mr T says Lloyds failed to consider that the rings may have been removed and then taken 
out of the house, as they were only in the house for a short period of time. Mr T says Lloyds 
also didnt consider the rings could have been accidentally thrown out. 
Mr T wants Lloyds to accept its liability and settle the claim. So he complained. 
Lloyds said it was established the rings were missing between Mr Ts house and a family 
members house. It said the onus is for the customer to show they have a valid claim that is 
covered under an insurable peril. Since its uncertain what happened to the rings, it is not 
known whether an insured event has occurred. Lloyds said it cant cover an item which may 
later be recovered in the home. So it maintained its position. 
Mr T didnt agree so he referred the complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into things for him. She said she didnt think Lloyds acted unreasonably or unfairly in 
declining the claim. She said based on the evidence provided by Mr T she thought it was fair 
that Lloyds considered the rings were misplaced in the home rather than lost elsewhere. So 
she didnt uphold the claim. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view. He said hed been consistent with his evidence 
and went into great detail about his movements with Lloyds in an attempt to demonstrate 
what may have happened to the rings. Because Mr T didnt agree the complaint has come to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this incident and its consequences have had a significant impact on Mr and 
Mrs T. Ive no doubt that Mr T has done all he can to try and prove the claim and has acted 
in good faith when reporting the matter to the insurer. I can understand why they thought 
their testimony would be enough to show the rings were lost, and when the claim was 
declined I think this would have both shocked and upset them. 
Id like to start by assuring both parties that Ive considered all the information provided to 
me as well as testimony from both sides; including Mr Ts response to the investigators 
view. But Ive only commented on whats relevant to the outcome of this complaint. 
Having considered all the evidence Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs T have experienced a difficult time and this isnt the answer they wanted; I empathise 
with the position they now find themselves in. So I will explain my decision below.  
My role here is to look at whether Lloyds declination of the claim was fair and in line with the 
terms of the policy. I have read the policy terms to understand the cover provided. The policy 
covers buildings and contents if theyre damaged by certain insured events such a fire or 
flood. There is also cover for lost items. 
In the specified items cover of the policy it says, Well pay claims if the items named on your 
policy schedule are lost, stolen or damaged. 
When considering this claim Ive started from the general principle that where a policyholder 
makes a claim for loss, the onus in the first instance is for them to show theres been an 
insured event that is covered under the terms of the policy. 
On considering the evidence provided by Mr T Im not persuaded he has shown an insured 
event has occurred. They noticed the rings were missing on 23 or 24 May, initially they 
thought they were lost in the home. On 23 May theyd been to a restaurant, and so checked 
they hadnt gone missing there. Theyd also been to see family but the rings werent there. It 
was thought the rings had been left at home, and when Mrs T went to a relatives house it 
was pointed out she wasnt wearing the rings there. Mrs T thought shed taken them off at 
home but couldnt remember where she put them down. Mr T explained Mrs T never took 
the rings off when she was outside the home. But that theyd checked in case theyd been 
dropped. 
So, there is nothing to substantiate when and where the loss occurred. It isnt definitely 
known if the rings were dropped outside the home and picked up by someone else, thrown 
out with the rubbish, or if theyve fallen behind some furniture in the home. It is also not 
definitely known whether theyve been stolen, by whom, or when this happened. And in the 
absence of any evidence I cant say its fair to ask Lloyds to pay the claim. I think Lloyds has 
acted reasonably to assume the loss was in the home. I think this carries more weight than 
the later testimony that the rings could have been dropped outside or thrown out; since both 
of these possibilities werent likely by Mr Ts own admission. 
Ive listened to that initial call. When the claim was made Mr T explained the rings were likely 
lost somewhere in the house. For clarification the agent asked specifically if the rings had 
been taken off within the home and they couldnt be found. Mr T provided positive 
confirmation and said he thought that was what happened. The agent explained that if the 
rings were lost within the boundaries of the home Lloyds classed that as misplaced rather 
than lost. 
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. The insurer is free to decide what cover its 
prepared to offer and ultimately what risks its willing to accept. Ive considered whether I 
think Lloyds has declined the claim fairly based on its assessment that the rings are likely to 
be in the home. And I think it has. Therefore I think Lloyds has acted fairly. It has used the details provided from the claim to 
validate it and has made a reasonable decision in conjunction with the terms and conditions 
of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman