DRN-2964287
The complaint
Mr M has complained that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) hasnt acted in 
accordance with the Equality Act 2010 in making reasonable adjustments due to his 
disability. As a result, Mr M feels his data has been compromised
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to all parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why, but firstly I must point out I have only considered the concerns Mr M raised in 
his complaint to our service. This relates to NS&I sending correspondence to Mr M in 
December 2019 and January 2020. I appreciate Mr M has raised a further concern regarding 
correspondence issued by NS&I in April 2020. However, as NS&I hasnt had an opportunity 
to investigate his concerns it wont be considered as part of this decision.
This service is unable to make findings on whether or not something constitutes 
discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. This is because we are an informal free 
alternative to the Courts. Only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the 
definitions set out within the act. I know this will be frustrating for Mr M but unfortunately 
because its outside this services jurisdiction I am unable to provide him with such an 
answer. However, I can consider whether or not the business has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner, and in order to do that I will take a number of things, including the 
Equality Act 2010, into consideration. 
Mr M has said he received documents sent by NS&I and when they arrived the envelope 
containing the documents had been over filled and as a result Mr M believes this caused the 
envelope to tear. Because of this Mr M says his data could have been compromised. Mr M 
says NS&I didnt comply with UK Association for Accessible Formats (UKAAF) in preparing 
and dispatching braille documentation.
The UKAAF is an industry association that sets out standards and highlights best practice for 
accessible documents. Having reviewed the guidance, I am satisfied it provides advice on 
how to package and bind braille documents. And it appears, based on Mr Ms testimony, that 
NS&I didnt follow that advice. However, this isnt regulatory guidance, and as such, NS&I is 
not obliged to act in accordance with it. So, while I appreciate the argument Mr M has made 
in regards to the envelope being overfilled and NS&I not acting in accordance with UKAAF 
guidance, it was never obliged to do so, as such I cant reasonably conclude it acted unfairly. 
However, I do acknowledge Mr Ms point that had NS&I followed the guidance the envelope 
wouldnt have been overfilled and potentially arrived undamaged. And while I am minded to 
agree, as I have explained above NS&I were not obliged to follow the guidance and I cant 
rule out the possibility the envelope was damaged as a result of the postal service. I have 
also considered NS&Is internal processes in regard to making reasonable adjustments, and 
I am satisfied it followed its processes. As such, I cant reasonably conclude NS&I has 
treated Mr M unfairly in regard to this point. 
During a phone call with this service Mr M has said he isnt concerned his data has become 
compromised but is concerned it could. I am pleased to see that despite the error which 
occurred, Mr Ms hasnt experienced any issues with the security if his account. But I 
appreciate he remains concerned it could happen. NS&I have offered to change Mr Ms 
account numbers if he still remains concerned, which should help to put Mr Ms mind at 
ease. If Mr M wishes to take NS&I up on this offer, he will need to contact them to discuss 
the matter further.
Ive also considered the second point Mr M raised about receiving correspondence in 
standard format as opposed to braille despite having notified NS&I of the adjustments he 
requires. NS&I has a duty to ensure Mr M received documentation in an accessible format. 
In its final response letter, it said that there are instructions on his account stating all 
correspondence is to be sent in braille, which is in line with its internal guidance. So, it is 
disappointing to see that NS&I didnt honour his request and breached its own policy and 
didnt treat Mr M fairly in this circumstance. Mr M would have been disadvantaged by this 
and it did cause him a degree of inconvenience and concern. 
However, I can see that NS&I offered Mr M £50 for the distress it caused. Im satisfied that 
the compensation offered puts this right. As such, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman