DRN-3339326
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the service that she received from Santander UK Plc surrounding a 
currency transfer, including the transfer rate she received.
What happened
Mrs C was due to receive a sum of EUR 525,000 into her Santander UK bank account. 
When Mrs C called Santander to ask what the currency exchange rate would be she was 
advised that it was 1.106, but when the transfer was completed a few days later the rate was 
1.11 and as such Mrs C received considerably less into her account than she was expecting. 
Mrs C was happy about this and felt that Santander had taken more money for themselves 
from the transfer than was reasonable. Mrs C also wasnt happy about the service shed 
received when shed questioned Santander about the transfer amount received, including 
that shed been given incorrect information by Santander. So, she raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mrs Cs complaint. They felt that theyd processed the transfer correctly 
and in accordance with the applicable transfer rate at the time of the transfer, and so they 
didnt uphold that aspect of Mrs Cs complaint. However, Santander did acknowledge that 
there had been some confusion surrounding Mrs Cs questioning of that transfer which had 
resulted in Mrs C being given incorrect information. So, Santander upheld Mrs Cs complaint 
on that basis and made a payment of £150 to Mrs C to compensate her for any upset or 
inconvenience the confusion and incorrect information may have caused. 
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Santanders 
response to Mrs Cs complaint  including that Santander hadnt upheld Mrs Cs complaint 
as it related to the transfer amount but had made a compensation payment of £150 to Mrs C 
in relation to the other aspects of her complaint  already represented a fair and reasonable 
resolution to what had taken place. So, they didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been disappointing for Mrs C to have received less money 
into her UK account than she was anticipating, following the transfer into that account of 
EUR 525,000. However, it seems apparent that the reason this occurred wasnt because 
Santander took more money from the transfer for themselves, as Mrs C appears to suspect, 
but because the currency exchange rate had moved against Mrs C so that at the time that 
the EUR amount was transferred into her UK account, that EUR amount simply had less 
value in GBP than it would have done had the transfer taken place a few days earlier.
Unfortunately, that a currency exchange rate can move in a manner such as this, is a risk 
thats inherent in currency transfers, and while Mrs C was informed by Santander of the 
exchange rate when she called them a few days before the transfer took place, its notable 
that Mrs C was also informed correctly by Santander at that time that the rate shed been 
advised of wasnt guaranteed and that the rate that she received at the time of the transfer 
may be different  which was ultimately the case.
As such, while I can appreciate Mrs Cs frustration at receiving a lower GBP value from the 
transfer than she would have done had the transfer been completed a few days earlier, Im 
satisfied that Santander did complete the transfer correctly and fairly and that it wasnt the 
case that Santander took any additional money themselves for the transfer beyond the 
margin that they would apply to all transfers. And while I appreciate that Mrs C would like to 
know how much Santander did make themselves from the transfer, this isnt information that 
I would reasonably expect Santander to provide. Accordingly, I wont be upholding this 
aspect of Mrs Cs complaint.
Being satisfied, as I am, that the currency exchange amount that Mrs C received was fair 
and reasonable, this means that the additional aspects of Mrs Cs complaint about the 
service she received from Santander when she questioned the transfer amount received, 
shouldnt any wont result in any instruction from me for Santander to amend that currency 
exchange amount received by Mrs C. This is because these aspects of Mrs Cs complaint 
are separate from the currency exchange amount issue, and any financial redress that Mrs 
C might receive for these aspects should take the form of a separate compensation amount.
In their response to Mrs Cs complaint, Santander accepted that there had been confusion 
and mistakes surrounding Mrs Cs enquiries as to the legitimacy of the transfer amount 
received, and they apologised to Mrs C for this and for the incorrect information shed 
received and made a compensation payment of £150 to her.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one person not being considered as being such by someone else. But having 
taken all the circumstances of this complaint into consideration  including having listened to 
all the telephone calls where Mrs C spoke with Santander  the £150 that Santander have 
already paid to Mrs C here does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate 
with what this service would expect. And, as explained previously, it must be remembered 
that this compensation amount is for the confusion and incorrect information that Mrs C was 
given following the completion of the transfer only, and doesnt in any way relate to the 
currency exchange amount itself.
All of which means that I do feel that the response that Santander have already issued to 
Mrs Cs complaint, including the payment of £150 compensation, is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to what took place  and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mrs C was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman