DRN-2718313
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that their premium for property insurance with Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited (LV) shouldnt have increased due to them making a claim on 
their policy for another property insured by LV.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G own two properties, both of which are insured by LV. In February 2019, they 
made a claim to replace the wood fired boiler at their second property after considerable 
water damage, which was accepted by LV. 
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs G received the renewal notice for their main property and the 
premium had increased considerably (by 49%) despite no claims being made on this 
property. In September 2019, the renewal notice for the second property was received and 
this had also increased by the equivalent of 96%. 
Mr and Mrs G asked LV about this and were told that this was due to the claim on the 
second property and that, as they insured more than one property with LV, this premium 
would also be increased. Mr and Mrs G say they havent been able to find any reference to 
this in any documentation and that LV havent been able to say where this stipulation could 
be found. Mr and Mrs G say that an increase for the second property was not unexpected 
but to increase the premium on the main property is unreasonable, unjustifiable and possibly 
illegal.
LV says its underwriting criteria takes into account various factors to calculate a customers 
premium. These include the customers claim history over the last five years and not just the 
claim history for the insured property. LV says that it takes into account any claims in the last 
five years for the policyholder or anyone living in the property. This means that if a 
policyholder has more than one property, their claim history will impact all properties they 
insure with LV. 
LV has said that Mr and Mrs G did not have to renew their policy with LV if they were 
unhappy with the price. However, it appreciates that Mr and Mrs G havent had time to shop 
around to see if they can get cheaper insurance elsewhere. As a goodwill gesture it has 
therefore agreed to waive the cancelation charge if they find cheaper insurance elsewhere 
and wish to cancel.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think LV had done something wrong. She 
said that insurers constantly update how they rate the risk level of customers and that the 
price increase was due to the claim being made on the second property. She was satisfied 
that this was correctly applied based on LVs underwriting criteria (which she was unable to 
share due it being confidential business information). Mr and Mrs G were also free to reject 
the renewal offer if they wished and it was reasonable of LV to waive the cancellation fee. 
Mr and Mrs G have disagreed with this. They dont accept that LV updating its rate of risk to 
their customers means that they should be penalised. They also find it suspicious that the 
information received from LV was confidential and would like this to be made available to 
them. Mr and Mrs G say theyve spoken to other property insurance companies who have 
said its not their policy to increase a premium on one property if a claim had been made on 
a second one. They have now changed their property insurance policies. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain my reasons 
below. 
I have to decide whether LV fairly and reasonably increased the premiums on Mr and Mrs 
Gs policy for their main property following their claim on the policy for their second property.
When a consumer takes out or renews an insurance policy, it is for the insurer to decide how 
much to charge them for it. A risk assessment is made based on information gathered about 
the particular customer and their circumstances. Theres lots of different ways of making that 
assessment and no 'correct' way of doing it. Each insurer will take its own view on what 
factors to take into account and how much weight to put on each of them. And different 
insurers may have different appetites for risk or provide different levels of service.
So the fact that some insurers may take into account factors which are not considered by 
other insurers does not of itself mean that an insurer has acted unreasonably or unfairly. Mr 
and Mrs G also had the freedom to choose whether or not to take the policy if they were of 
the view that it was too expensive. I note that Mr and Mrs G have now moved their policies 
to a different provider.
Mr and Mrs G have said that LV doesnt mention in the terms and conditions that premiums 
would increase if a claim is made on another property. An insurer is not obliged to publish its 
underwriting criteria and its assessment of a risk rating for a particular customer, which may 
change depending on a variety of factors. This is part of LVs underwriting criteria so I 
wouldnt expect to see this in the terms and conditions of the policy. 
LV has said that it takes into account various factors to calculate a customers premium 
including any claims in the last five years for the policyholder or anyone living in the property. 
During the application process, customers are asked In the last 5 years, have you or 
anyone living with you made any claims on this or any other property. I have also seen LVs 
underwriting criteria, which supports the fact that it does take this into account when 
calculating its premiums. 
This means that it considers the claim history for the customer in addition to the claim history 
for the specific property insured. The impact of this is that if a policyholder has more than 
one property, their claim history will impact all properties they insure with LV. I dont think it is 
unreasonable for LV to consider the claims history of the customer in calculating risk in 
addition to information about the particular property being insured. So I cant say LV has 
acted unreasonably in increasing the premiums for both of Mr and Mrs Gs property 
insurance policies. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs G, but I can't fairly say that 
LV has acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case and I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman