DRN-3318477
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with Phoenix Life Assurance Limiteds 
(Phoenix) handling of his personal pension.
What happened
Mr O was a deferred member of an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) between 1973-1985. In 1993 he was advised to 
transfer his accrued benefits into a Section 32 buyout plan with 
NPI. The transfer value was around £8,600. The plan had an 
important feature - a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). 
This meant Mr O would receive an annual income from his 
pension plan when he reached 65 of at least £3,191 
irrespective of how well his fund performed. NPI was obliged to 
meet the cost of any shortfall.
As a result of the industry-wide Pension Review, initiated by the 
regulator in 1994, Mr O sought a review of the advice hed 
received in 1993 to transfer his OPS benefits. Unfortunately, 
the firm which had recommended the transaction was in 
default. But Mr O was able to pursue a claim via the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). This was successful. 
In 2008 Mr O accepted redress of over £16,000 for the 
unsuitable advice hed been given. This was intended to put 
him back into the position he wouldve been in had the transfer 
of his OPS benefits not taken place. The compensation was 
paid into his NPI pension plan. It wasnt to be used to meet the 
cost of his GMP.
In 2012 Mr O was informed that NPI would be rebranded to 
Phoenix. And in 2015 the High Court gave approval for that 
Group to take on responsibility for certain NPI policies, 
including Mr Os. As part of the transfer it agreed to honour 
GMP policy provisions.
Mr Os normal retirement date (NRD) was March 2017. He 
didnt take his benefits at this time, so his pension was moved 
from the with profits fund to a capital account to reduce his 
pension pots exposure to risk. In addition, once his benefits 
were deferred, after seven weeks, his GMP would increase by 
1/7th of 1% for each week until he decided to take his benefits.
Mr O has made several complaints to Phoenix since 2014. Hes 
expressed dissatisfaction with a broad range of administrative 
and policy related matters. In December 2019, he contacted 
Phoenix with concerns including about how his GMP was being 
calculated; its refusal to allow him to move his funds; how his 
funds were invested and performance; and the transfer of his 
policy from NPI to Phoenix.
Phoenix responded to Mr Os then latest concerns in December 
2019 and February 2020. It set out its position in relation to 
each of his concerns. It didnt uphold his case but offered him 
£50 for the delay in dealing with his complaint. As Mr O wasnt 
satisfied he approached this Service in May 2020. He told us:
my main problem with Phoenix is the way the information I 
get from them keeps changing, I hope you will see that from the 
documents I will attach to this email...
Mr O reiterated the concerns hed raised with Phoenix in 
December 2019. During his journey with us hes raised further 
points, including around bonus payments and fund charges. 
Hes also raised new issues with Phoenix, including matters 
related to its agents and data handling.
The evolution of Mr Os complaint makes it more difficult for all 
parties to respond effectively. I appreciate that its taken a long 
time to get him an answer and perhaps this has contributed to additional matters being raised along the way. But to be clear, 
the scope of this decision only extends to those matters which 
the Investigator has covered in her findings and conclusions to 
date. 
Im sure Mr O will appreciate its helpful for a business to be 
able to consider a complaint prior to our Service getting 
involved. Not only will it generally be able provide an answer 
that a customer finds satisfactory, its also a matter of natural 
justice that a firm should have an opportunity to engage with a 
complaint before this Service issues views and decisions.
Im aware Mr O received a further response from Phoenix in 
October 2021 providing more details which sought to address 
some of the concerns covered by this decision, but which also 
responds to issues hes raised more recently and are outside 
the scope of my decision.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. He disagreed 
and so his case has been passed to me to review and decide 
as the final stage in this Services process.
Im grateful to Mr O for talking to me a few weeks ago about his 
case. He gave me an overview of his complaint and told me 
about his then four main current concerns. These were related 
to the calculation of his GMP, in particular the inflator used to 
uprate his provision annually and how Phoenix had worked out 
the enhancement due because hed deferred taking his 
benefits.
Mr O also said hed been told by the FSCS hed be able to take 
the compensation element of his pension pot as a lump sum, 
but this hadnt been possible. And that in a recent 
communication from Phoenix, it had said his GMP was only 
guaranteed for 5 years.Because of the changing focus of Mr Os complaint and given 
recent communications from Phoenix with him, I issued a 
provisional decision in January. This was to provide both 
parties with an opportunity to take stock of the extent of the 
scope of my decision, the matters Ive considered and my 
findings and conclusions.
Mr O has responded with further information and arguments. 
These havent changed my mind, but Ill address any material 
matters in this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events 
complained about and gaps in what we know, my role is to 
weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance 
of probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a response to all the points raised in this case. 
Thats deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving 
disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated 
my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this 
complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Os complaint. I know hell be 
disappointed, but Ill explain why Ive reached the conclusions I 
have. Mr O told me he expects to start taking his pension 
benefits shortly  so at the very least perhaps my decision will 
enable him to draw a line under whats happened previously 
and focus on the future.My starting point is to acknowledge that pensions are complex. 
Many people dont have the knowledge or experience to 
understand them fully. Mr O has done a lot of research which 
has certainly raised his awareness. But over the years there 
have been many changes to regulations and firms operating 
environment. To make matters more difficult, I can also see that 
Phoenix has acknowledged that on more than one occasion its 
communications with Mr O shouldve been better.
So, I recognise that in making enquiries and complaints to 
Phoenix, Mr Os motivation has been to understand his policy 
better and to make sure he was being fairly treated. I think 
thats understandable, especially when we consider the advice 
he was given in 1993 was found to be flawed.
This Service isnt a checking service, for example we dont 
employ actuaries to review calculations. And we cant provide 
advice. Were here to resolve disputes. If Mr O doesnt want to 
use a financial adviser, there are providers such as Pension 
Wise or Citizens Advice, which may be able to help him.
This Service stands impartially between businesses and 
consumers. In arriving at my decision, Ive considered the 
information weve been provided and endeavoured to 
understand what both parties have said and done. And Ive 
considered the relevant rules and regulations.
For example, the FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms 
must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These 
include:
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care 
to organise and control its affairs responsibly and 
effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers.- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the 
information needs of its clients and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory 
framework. They must always be complied with by regulated 
firms like Phoenix. As such, I need to have regard to them in 
deciding Mr Os complaint.
Many of Mr Os concerns about his pension stem from the 
nature of his plan. As previously noted, he has a Section 32 
buyout plan, which incorporates a GMP. As at September 
2021, this guarantee provided for an annual pension of £4,276, 
a 5-year minimum payment period (in the event of his passing) 
and a spouses pension of 50% of the income he wouldve 
received.
I can see that his pension also provided for other benefits such 
as an additional lump sum and /or small annuity where there 
was flexibility about whether this was taken on a single or joint 
life basis.
Mr O has asked previously to be able to transfer his benefits to 
another provider; to access the element of his pot which relates 
to his Pension Review compensation payment from 2008; and 
to be able to withdraw his benefits into another vehicle, such as 
an ISA.
Phoenix wont allow these things to happen. Thats because it 
says Mr Os pension fund is worth less than the value of the 
benefits its obliged to pay. For example, in December 2019 it 
said the shortfall was around £19,000.I recognise Mr O is frustrated that he cant do what hed like to 
with his pension benefits. But I dont think Phoenix is being 
deliberately obstructive. The rules that apply to his plan are set 
out in the Contracting-Out and Transfer Payment Regulations 
1996. And it has to adhere to these.
Essentially, Section 32 plans must provide a GMP at the 
consumers state pension age regardless of whether the fund 
value and annuity rate at the time are sufficient to support 
payments. And its important to note that the pension freedom 
laws enacted in 2015 dont alter the fact that the GMP must be 
paid. The Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) has 
confirmed pension freedom provisions dont have any impact 
on this requirement.
Phoenix is required to honour the contract it has entered into. 
Had it tried to avoid this, then it couldve been held to account 
for not treating him fairly. And even if the transfer of his plan to 
a competitor provider was possible, it seems inconceivable 
another firm would want to take on the obligation to pay the 
GMP given the shortfall in his pension pot to fund this.
Mr O has questioned the basis for the calculation of his GMP. I 
note Phoenix has acknowledged that certain of its 
communications couldve been clearer, for example in relation 
to how his GMP was revalued and regarding the impact of his 
deferring taking his retirement income. Ive reviewed its detailed 
letter to him of 8 October 2021, with regards to these matters it 
said (bolding is my emphasis):The copy of the Application Form I have enclosed lists your 
GMP at the date of leaving as being £276.12 per annum. This 
was revised once the transfer was complete after liaising with 
the [DWP]  then known as the Department of Social Security 
(DSS), to £276.64 per annum (see enclosed, the RD694 form 
provided by the DSS, which confirmed your weekly GMP as 
being £5.32). Your GMP was revalued using a fixed 
compound interest rate of 8.5%, and is calculated as at 
your 65th birthday (12 March 2017) as being £3,197.48 per 
annum
As you have deferred taking your benefits past your 65th 
birthday, that GMP figure increases by 1/7th % (one 
seventh of one percent) for every week of deferral past 
your 65th birthday, starting after the 7th week of deferral (I 
enclose a copy of our letter dated 21 September 2021). This is 
based on guidance from Her Majestys Revenue & Customs 
(HMRC) found at https://www.gov.uk/guidance/provide-
apension-for-your-scheme-member.
I do acknowledge that within a previous complaint [response] 
letter of 10 December 2019 it was stated that after you pass 
the state pension age of 65 your GMP will escalate by 1/7th for 
each complete week of deferment after 7 weeks. I can only 
apologise that the percentage symbol was omitted from the 
sentence, and I can see that this is where you obtained your 
belief that one seventh was equal to approximately 14%. You 
will of course be assured of the correct deferral method from 
the above web address. As of 24 September 2021, the value of 
your GMP on deferral has risen to £4,275.60 per annum.
Phoenix says its used HMRC guidance to uprate Mr Os GMP. 
Mr O wrote to HMRC for advice and it confirmed in December 
2021 his weekly GMP up until 5 April 2016 (the last day of the 
2015/16 tax year). He told me hes satisfied that up to this point 
he and Phoenix are on the same page.But Mr O says it needs to uprate his pension between 6 April 
2016 until 12 March 2017 (his NRD) by 8.5%. Mr O says his 
position is supported by documents provided by a letter he 
received from the then DSS in 1995.
I dont think the letter from the DSS that Mr O has shown us is 
telling in terms of the case he advances. It sets out information 
in general terms about his contracted-out service, his NRD 
and the revaluation rate to be used.
Rather, when I consider relevant HMRC guidance I note it says:
The GMP amount calculated at the date of leaving is revalued 
by a compound fixed percentage [8.5% in Mr Os case] for each 
relevant tax year after the member has ceased to be an active 
member of the scheme, up to and including the tax year 
before GMP payable age, or death if earlier.
So, the GMP is revalued over the number of complete tax years 
between the member's date of leaving the pension scheme and 
the state pension age. I think the advice he received from 
HMRC accords with Phoenixs approach.
Mr O also provided this Service with further paperwork he had 
which suggested his GMP in deferral should be increased by 
1/8th% (one eighth of one percent) for every week of deferral 
past his 65th birthday, starting after the 8th week of deferral. I 
thought the paperwork was out of date, and that the HMRC 
website stated the correct position. And as I discussed with Mr 
O, the current provision is in Mr Os favour. I think Mr O now 
accepts this point.
In responding to my provisional decision, Mr O constructed a 
spreadsheet to demonstrate his case. Instead of an annual 
GMP worth about £4276 as at 24 September 2021 as Phoenix 
had informed him, he worked out that it should be worth around 
£10,655.I think there are a few assumptions in Mr Os spreadsheet that 
are incorrect. Ive already set out the position regarding the 
8.5% compound interest uprating, and when that ended. The 
most significant problem with his calculations is that he 
assumes a 0.43% enhancement to his GMP for each week its 
been deferred (after the first seven weeks). But this should read 
0.14%. This is where the bulk of the difference is between the 
figures.
Although Im not upholding Mr Os complaint, I am asking 
Phoenix to provide Mr O with a little more detail about how it 
has worked out his GMP to put his mind at rest. In particular, in 
considering the requirements of HMRC and its guidance:
If the deferment is for 7 weeks or more, the scheme must 
increase the GMP by one seventh of a per cent for each 
complete week in the period of deferment. The increment 
calculation is based on the pension value at the end of the 
period of deferment which will include any inflation proofing.
So, it will be helpful for Mr O to understand what deferral and 
inflation figures it has used and how these are applied in the 
basic calculation.
I note that in its letter to him of 8 October 2021 Phoenix said it 
wouldnt release any proprietary information about its actuarial 
calculations - which I understand. But I dont consider these 
basic facts, covered by regulation, can be considered such. 
And I think it will help bring closure for Mr O and mean he 
doesnt have to waste time trying to work out what he should be 
paid based on incorrect assumptions.
Otherwise I think Phoenix has provided Mr O with a clear 
response on these matters.Mr O says he was told by someone at the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) he could take the 
compensation he received in 2008 as a lump sum. Obviously I 
dont know what he was told and in what context. And he hasnt 
provided any contemporaneous paperwork to support his 
position. I recognise of course, his preference to access his 
funds flexibly.
Id simply observe that the compensation Mr O received was in 
relation to flawed advice to transfer his occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) benefits. Its appropriate that it was used to 
supplement his provision for an income in retirement. The 
compensation has been kept separate from the GMP element 
of his pension and will provide for additional benefits, as set out 
in Phoenixs information pack from September 2021.
As Mr O and I also discussed, had he been able to access the 
compensation element of his pension provision in one chunk, 
for example to invest in an ISA as he mentioned, its likely this 
wouldve had implications. The funds wouldve been subject to 
usual rules governing access to pension benefits. So, for 
example, there wouldve been tax consequences.
Turning to Mr Os concerns about the under-performance of his 
pension plan.
A key consideration here is the advice Mr O received in 1993 
when a different firm recommended he transfer his deferred 
OPS benefits into a personal pension with NPI. I dont know 
what funds it suggested he should invest in, or what illustrations 
and comparisons he was given. We do know that a review 
found the advice had been unsuitable and he received redress 
in 2008. So, this matter is closed.Phoenix said Mr Os pension funds were invested in a Profit 
Sharing Account Fund. It hadnt been able to add annual 
bonuses on to the policy for several years, but that these were 
never guaranteed. It gave him information explaining how his 
plan worked, the factors which had influenced performance and 
how it decided when to pay bonuses.
I note from Mr Os policy schedule, under charging details, 
there was a charge of £15 per switch. This suggests he mayve 
had some scope to move his money around within certain 
parameters, but Ive not seen any instructions were given by 
him at any point to do so.
As part of the terms and conditions of his policy, once he 
reached 65, his funds were automatically switched to a Capital 
Account Fund. While his plan was still earning modest returns, 
the rationale here was to de-risk his pot as hed reached his 
NRD.
Phoenix says the only guarantee it ever made to Mr O was that 
when he reached the age of 65, regardless of the size of his 
fund, it would pay him a retirement income of about £3,200 a 
year. And thats what it will honour (accepting increases 
required due to deferral).
Ive not seen any evidence that makes me think Phoenix has 
done anything wrong in the way its overseen Mr Os pension 
plan.
Mr O raised a new complaint point with the Investigator about a 
bonus payment that was being taken away by Phoenix. It wrote 
to him about this in August 2021 and he said that in previous 
guidance it had said it couldnt take a bonus away from his plan 
once it had been awarded.Ive reviewed Phoenixs letter of 2 August 2021, in which it told 
Mr O it had made a mistake in its calculations and had applied 
£1,713 instead of the correct amount £1,427 to his fund. It 
amended his plan accordingly.
I agree with the Investigator when she found that this wasnt the 
same thing as taking a bonus away, as meant in the terms and 
conditions. Its unfortunate that Phoenix had made a mistake, 
but it wasnt obliged to honour its error. It made Mr O aware of 
the issue and acted to put things right. This didnt cause him 
any financial detriment.
Mr O also raised an issue about the lack of clarity concerning 
charges on his pension plan. The Investigator addressed this 
matter in her second view, although Phoenixs letter to him of 
the 8 October 2021 provides useful further information. It said:
I am sorry if you feel the explanations you have had previously 
regarding the management charges have been insufficient or 
confusing. I do believe we could have made the explanation of 
these charges clearer.
In reference to our letter from 12 August 2021 (a copy is 
enclosed), the two relevant figures to you are within the third 
and fourth rows down in the table on page 2. The fourth row  
the Annual Management Charge (AMC) for the Phoenix Life 
Assurance Limited (PLAL) National Provident Life (NPL) Profit 
Sharing account  was the fund your policy was invested in 
wholly before you turned 65, and was 0.85% per annum. The 
third row  the AMC for the PLAL NPL Capital account  is 
1.00% per annum, and has applied since you turned 65.
It may help to explain that these AMCs are not taken directly 
from your policy. Rather, they are taken from the underlying 
investment fund before bonus rates are declared. This means 
that we are unable to provide actual AMC figures you have 
personally incurred, and this is why the charges are referred to 
as N/A on the letter in question.Mr O and I discussed some of the communications hes 
received from Phoenix covering charges and bonuses. I said 
that I could see that generic communications, where policy 
holders had to identify what was relevant to them, was a tool to 
achieve operational efficiency, and that many firms take this 
approach.
For example, Mr O pointed to a communication about his 
pension plan charging structure. He was puzzled by a table 
which showed annual management fees for different unit linked 
funds of 0.75% and 1% respectively. But I could see these 
werent relevant to him because his funds were held in a 
Capital Account.
I understand how communications with lots of information, only 
elements of which are relevant can be confusing to some 
consumers. I note that Phoenix has now tried to address his 
enquiries in a more tailored way. And I think its done enough in 
this regard.
Mr O raised other questions when we spoke. He was worried 
by the pack Phoenix had sent to him in September last year 
which set out his options for taking his pension benefits later 
this year. Reviewing the options that had been set out  he 
thought it was now saying his GMP only had a 5-year 
guarantee.
As I explained to Mr O, this is a confusion. The word guarantee 
is certainly used a lot in the pack in many different contexts, so 
I can understand why hes become a little confused. The 
relevant extract says:
This [GMP] will be payable in monthly instalments for your 
lifetime with a 5 year guaranteed minimum payment period. 
The first instalment is due on the pension date.The first part of the sentence that I have bolded here should put 
Mr Os mind at rest - his GMP is guaranteed for life. The 
second part of the sentence is simply saying that as a minimum 
Phoenix would pay his GMP for 5 years, even if he passed. I 
think Mr O now understands this point.
Mr O also seemed worried that his spouse might not be 
covered by his pension arrangements. But I noted Phoenixs 
paperwork clearly provided for a spouses pension (50% of his 
GMP) in the event of his passing.
I understand Mr O remains unhappy about the transfer of his 
original 1993 NPI pension policy to Phoenix. The operation of 
all markets entail branding changes, strategic partnering, 
mergers, acquisitions, and so on. Most of these matters happen 
within regulated environments, ensuring the interests of third 
parties are properly considered. In the case of the transaction 
between NPI and Phoenix and the relevant legal entities, these 
were sanctioned in the High Court.
Ive not seen there was any erosion of the protections and 
benefits Mr O was afforded by his NPI plan when it was moved 
to Phoenix. And while I acknowledge this subject continues to 
concern him, he hasnt made a telling argument about how 
what happened was materially detrimental to him, financially or 
otherwise.
Finally, Ive thought about Phoenixs service and 
communications with Mr O, which it has recognised hasnt 
always met the standard it would expect.
When Im considering a complaint like this, I think about 
whether its fair to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a business 
 which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone 
wrong, recognition of the emotional and practical impact can 
make a real difference.Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and 
in our dealings with other people, businesses and 
organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to 
decide that the impact of Phoenixs actions was greater than 
just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its clear to me that this 
was the case here, particularly given what Mr O has told me 
about his situation. And I think thats what Phoenix thought too.
I can see that since 2014 Mr O has raised several complaints. 
And hes been awarded six separate sums by Phoenix totalling 
over £600 in recognition of the things its got wrong.
So, Phoenix has recognised it caused Mr O problems. Its 
apologised and it offered him payments in compensation. Most 
recently, in its letter of 8 October 2021, it awarded him £150 for 
distress and inconvenience and £20 for costs. Mr O says he 
didnt accept Phoenixs last offer because hed got tired of 
dealing with it.
I think Phoenix got its payments for redress about right. I do 
want it to honour all these payments if some have yet to be 
encashed. But I dont require it to make any further awards in 
relation to the matters Ive considered in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Os 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 
22 March 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman