DRN-2965065
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car he took from MotoNovo Finance Limited under a hire purchase 
agreement was not of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In June 2020 Mr H entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo. The car 
which was the subject of the agreement had been first registered in December 2015 and had 
a cash price of a little over £10,000. Its recorded mileage was just under 61,000 miles. Mr 
Hs monthly payments were just under £170.
In September 2020 the car suffered a major oil leak. It was not being driven at the time. Mr H 
arranged for the car to be taken for a specialist assessment. That assessment concluded 
that the leak was linked to the cars timing chain. It would cost £1,398 to repair. Mr H 
complained to MotoNovo and on 19 November 2020 paid the repair costs.
MotoNovo arranged for an independent inspection of the car and for a report on its condition. 
That report was consistent with what the earlier assessment had said. It added that the car 
was not fit for use on a public road but concluded that the fault would not have been present 
or developing at the time of delivery to Mr H. Because of that conclusion, MotoNovo said that 
it was not liable for the cost of repairs or any associated losses that Mr H might have 
suffered.
Mr H referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She concluded, in summary, that the car had not been of satisfactory quality 
when it was provided to Mr H. She noted that Mr H had been without the car for around two 
months and had taken taxis during that time. She recommended that MotoNovo meet the 
repair costs, refund two monthly payments, pay Mr H £100 to cover additional transport 
costs and a further £100 in recognition of the distress he had suffered.
MotoNovo did not accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.  
I did that and issued a provisional decision. Whilst I was broadly in agreement with the 
investigators recommendations, I felt that the remedy she recommended went a little too far. 
In my provisional decision I said:
I note first of all that Mr H has mentioned further problems that he has had with the car 
since he referred his complaint to this service. I have not considered those later events 
 and in particular whether they might give rise to a further claim. I make no comment 
on them. My decision here concerns only the matters about which Mr H complained 
when he brought this case to this service.
The hire purchase contract was to be read as including a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality  meaning the quality a reasonable person would expect in the 
circumstances. If goods are found not to be of satisfactory quality within six months of 
delivery, there is a presumption that they were not of satisfactory quality at delivery.
In determining whether the car was of satisfactory quality I must have in mind its age, 
mileage and price. It would not be reasonable to expect Mr Hs to have been entirely 
trouble- free, having regard to those matters. However, the fault which was reported 
was major and expensive to repair. It occurred within a couple of months. And 
satisfactory quality includes matters such as durability. In my view, the oil leak and the 
issues associated with it meant that the car was not of satisfactory quality when the oil 
leak occurred.
I must therefore consider whether that was the case when the car was delivered to Mr H 
or whether it was something that developed later. The independent report 
commissioned by MotoNovo concluded that the fault would not have been present at 
delivery. It does not however explain how the engineer arrived at that conclusion. It 
does not, for example, identify any particular development or event that might have 
caused the oil leak. And, as I have explained, the presumption here is that the fault was 
present when the car was delivered to Mr H. I agree with the investigator that the car 
was not of satisfactory quality when it was delivered to Mr H in June 2020.
I need therefore to consider what MotoNovo should do to put things right. It should in 
my view cover the cost of repairs. In addition, Mr H should receive some compensation 
for being without the car while those repairs were carried out. I note that it appears he 
did not make any payments from December 2020 to February 2021  that is, three 
monthly payments. In my view it would be fair of MotoNovo to write off two monthly 
payments in recognition of the time during which he did not have the car.
The investigator recommended too that MotoNovo contribute towards Mr Hs alternative 
travel costs. In my view, however, Mr H will be adequately compensated for those costs 
by not having to pay hire charges for two months. Mr H should also receive something 
in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has been put and the distress he has 
suffered. In my view a payment of £150 would be reasonable.
After seeking clarification on some points, Mr H indicated that he would accept my 
provisional findings. MotoNovo did not say whether it accepted my findings. Mr H said 
though that he had contacted MotoNovo and that it had said it was awaiting a final decision 
which would deal with all the issues connected to the car.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party has objected either to my findings or to the proposed remedy set out in 
my provisional decision, I do not need to discuss those matters any further. I see no reason 
to change my view from that set out in my provisional decision. 
I do however need to address in a little more detail what this decision covers. The first 
paragraph which I have quoted above explained that I had only considered Mr Hs complaint 
to the extent it concerned events up the point when he referred this matter to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. He did that in November 2020. He subsequently said that the car had 
developed further faults and that it had been off the road since April 2021. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, this service has not investigated those later issues. As far 
as I am aware, neither has MotoNovo. I am not therefore in a position to make any comment 
or finding on them and do not do so. By way of further clarification, this services 
investigation and this determination of this complaint will not prevent Mr H from bringing a 
fresh complaint about issues which he says have arisen after he referred this case to us in November 2020.   
Putting things right
I recommended in my provisional decision that MotoNovo reimburse Mr Hs repair costs, 
agree not to pursue him for two monthly payments and pay him a further £150. There is no 
good reason for me to change my view about how this case should be resolved. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve the complaint that Mr H referred to 
this service in November 2020, MotoNovo Finance Limited should:
pay Mr H £1,398 for repair costs, together with interest at 8% a year from 19 November 
2020 until the date of payment;
agree not to pursue Mr H for monthly payments which would have fallen due in 
December 2020 and January 2021; and
pay Mr H £150 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has been put and the 
distress he has suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman