DRN-2689624
The complaint
Y, a limited company, complains that Allianz Insurance Plc declined its office insurance claim 
for damage to electrical equipment following a flood. Y also complains about the time it took 
to inspect and return its equipment. 
What happened
Y rents an office space on the first floor of a building. In early 2020 Y was given advance 
warning of floods that were due to happen so the offices were closed. The ground floor of 
the office did flood and Y was unable to access its office for some time. Ys electrical office 
equipment remained inside the building. And whilst it wasnt directly touched by the flood 
water, Y said the atmospheric conditions created by the flood caused a damaging 
environment for the electricals and, as such, they needed replacing.
Y made a claim to Allianz in March 2020 and Allianz appointed a loss adjuster to validate the 
claim. The loss adjuster said the electrical items needed to be tested so a specialist 
company was appointed to test the equipment. 
Y was unhappy with the results of the test and the service provided so Allianz appointed a 
forensic investigator. Allianz also invited Y to appoint its own expert to validate the claim but 
Y didnt take up the offer.
The forensic investigator reported its findings to Allianz. It said that it appreciated Y had a 
valid concern about potential damage caused by the exposure of the equipment to high 
humidity but was of the view that that view wasnt substantiated by the tests carried out or 
the physical evidence. Based on the forensic report, Allianz declined Ys claim for damage to 
its electrical goods. 
Y complained to Allianz about its decision to decline the claim and the time taken to return 
the equipment after inspection. It said the claim should be paid because atmospheric 
conditions breached those recommended by the manufacturers. Y also said the equipment 
was malfunctioning, too. Allianz looked into Ys complaint but didnt think itd done anything 
wrong. 
Unhappy with the outcome of its complaint to Allianz, Y complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into its complaint but didnt think Allianz had unfairly or unreasonably 
declined Ys claim for damage to its equipment or had delayed its return. 
Y disagreed with our investigators findings so the complaint was referred to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Y has brought at least two other complaints to this service about the claim 
that arose from the February 2020 flood. So, its important to note that in this complaint Im 
only looking at Allianzs decision to decline the claim for the electrical equipment and the 
time it took to return that equipment to Y following its inspection. This complaint is concerned 
with those events between 28 December 2020 and 17 February 2021. 
For a claim to be successful, it must be first be shown that damage occurred. And not all 
damage sustained by property is covered by insurance. Only damage thats caused by any 
of the events listed in the policy term  flood, fire, theft etc.  is covered. Its the responsibility 
of the policyholder (in this case Y) to show that the damage it is claiming for has been 
caused by one of the events listed in the policy. 
Ys policy defines damage as: loss or destruction of or damage. It also says: The Insurer 
will indemnify the insured up to the sum insured in respect of damage to the property insured 
by any cause not excluded, occurring during the period of insurance.
So, the first hurdle for Y to overcome is to show that the electrical equipment it is claiming for 
has been damaged. Allianz  having instructed a forensic investigator  says theres no 
evidence that the electrical equipment was damaged by the change in atmospheric 
conditions caused by the flood. That being the case, it has declined the claim. I have to 
decide, taking all the circumstances and evidence into account, if that was a reasonable 
decision for Allianz to have reached. 
Ys director says hes a technical specialist. Ive no cause to doubt what he says but hes 
provided no inspection or report which shows what, if any, damage was sustained by the 
equipment. Ive thought about Ys provision of the equipment manufacturers instructions 
which shows that it shouldnt be stored in the conditions the flood caused. Unfortunately 
though Ive not seen anything to show that the relevant manufacturers have inspected the 
equipment or that the equipment has been damaged by being stored in the altered 
conditions.
So, I dont think Y did enough to show that damage had occurred and it had a (potentially) 
valid claim. That being the case, Allianz didnt need to consider the claim further. But by 
appointing experts to inspect Ys equipment I think it treated Y fairly and reasonably. The 
expert concluded that whilst Y had a valid concern about the potential damage caused by 
the equipments exposure to high humidity, that concern wasnt substantiated by the tests 
undertaken or the physical evidence during the inspection. The expert said that the items he 
examined were functional and completely indistinguishable from equipment that had been 
stored in a benign environment. 
Given the content of the report and the absence of any evident damage to the equipment, I 
dont think Allianz unfairly decided to decline this aspect of Ys claim. 
Its not the role of this service to decide if the equipment has been damaged or not. We base 
our decisions on the evidence with which we are provided. But I cant fairly ignore the only 
expert evidence about the alleged damage the equipment sustained or the fact that Y has 
produced no expert evidence of its own to counter the conclusions reached by Allianzs 
expert. It follows that I cant fairly and reasonably ask Allianz to reconsider or pay Ys claim.
I note that Allianz has suggested that Y approach the manufacturers to carry out an
inspection on the electricals to determine if theres any damage to them. I think this is a fair
and reasonable suggestion. If it transpires that the electricals are damaged  and Y provides 
evidence to show that - I think Allianz should consider the claim further.
Ive considered whether the equipment couldve been returned to Y sooner. And although Iappreciate it was inconvenient for Y to be without its equipment, it was necessary to carry 
out the inspections in order to discover if the equipment was damaged or not. And Ive not 
seen any significant or unreasonable delays caused by Allianz in returning the electricals to 
Y. 
Taking everything into account, Im unable to uphold this complaint. I think that Allianz has 
handled this aspect of Ys claim fairly and reasonably so Im not going to ask it to do 
anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman