DRN-2304054
The complaint
This complaints about a second charge loan that Mrs and Mr C took out in 2016 on the 
advice and recommendation of B2B Loans & Mortgages Ltd. In 2019, B2B admitted that it 
didnt explain fully that consolidating credit card debts into a fifteen-year loan would probably 
result in Mrs and Mr C paying more interest over the term. B2B offered redress of around 
£400 but Mrs and Mr C say its not enough. They want a full refund of the fees they paid to 
B2B (£4,995) and the lender (£1,750). 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instructions from either party to the complaint.
The case is more straightforward than it might first appear. I dont have to decide if B2B fell 
short of its obligations to ensure Mrs and Mr C were fully informed of the potential for 
consolidating their debts to cost them more in the long-term. Its already accepted that it did, 
and offered redress. What I have to decide here is if B2Bs offer is fair in all the 
circumstances, or if more is due. 
The sums in dispute here are the broker and lender fees, both of which were included in the 
loan. What I have to decide is what, if anything, Mrs and Mr C would have done differently in 
2016 but for B2Bs failings. In reaching my decision, Ive not only taken account of what they 
werent told; Ive also considered what they were told. Specifically, the loan agreement, 
informed Mrs and Mr C of how much the fees were, and how much the loan would cost them 
if it ran full term.  
Ive considered everything Mrs and Mr C have said about their circumstances as they were 
in 2016. If B2B had made it clear that consolidating their credit cards into the loan could cost 
them more in the long term, I find it more likely than not that Mrs and Mr C would still have 
taken the loan out, thus incurring the broker and lender fee. 
By their own testimony, Mrs and Mr C were under severe pressure in 2016 and needed to 
reduce their monthly outgoings to make them more affordable. Achieving this in the short 
term was, in my view, of greater priority to Mrs and Mr C than the risk that they could pay 
more overall during the life of the loan. So, whilst B2B didnt tell Mrs and Mr C everything 
they needed to know in order to make an informed decision in 2016, Im not persuaded they 
suffered any detriment as a result. If B2B had informed Mrs and Mr C as it should have 
done, I think theyd still have acted as they did, and thus be in the same position as they are 
now.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. If on further reflection, Mrs and Mr C wish to accept B2Bs offer 
of redress, they should contact the business directly. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman