DRN-1560590
The complaint
Miss G is complaining that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) settled a  
claim another driver made on her car insurance policy.
What happened
Miss G was involved in an incident in June 2017 where she reversed into another person's 
car. She says she hit the car at very low speed. She said she inspected the other person's 
car at the time and she didn't think she'd caused any damage. She reviewed the car with its 
owner and she said that he highlighted issues that she said she couldn't have caused.
Miss G reported the incident to Advantage. She said she told Advantage that there was 
CCTV of the car park, which she thinks would have shown the incident.
In July 2018 Miss G complained to Advantage about the way it was handling the claim. She 
was unhappy with the length of time the claim had taken and that she didn't think it was 
keeping her fairly updated.
Advantage responded to Miss G's complaint and said that it thought the claim was being 
handled fairly. But it acknowledged that it should have communicated with her better during 
the claim journey. And it offered her £75 in compensation.
Miss G was unhappy with Advantage's response and she said she still remained concerned 
with the way that it was handling the claim. And she reiterated that she thought the claim 
was fraudulent. Advantage said it would arrange for someone to call her back, but it didn't do 
so. Miss G later called Advantage again to discuss her concerns and she also highlighted 
that she hadn't received the compensation cheque of £75.
One of Advantage's complaints handlers called Miss G the following day and increased the 
compensation offered to £175. And she advised that the original cheque was sent to        
Miss G's previous address by mistake. Miss G said that she was unhappy with this as she'd 
moved in four months before this and had paid around £150 to change her address.
In November 2018 Advantage settled the other driver's claim. Miss G was unhappy with this 
and didn't think Advantage had handled the claim fairly. And she referred her complaint to 
this service.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2020 not upholding this complaint. And I said the 
following:
"I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos at fault for causing an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether Advantage has 
carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable 
decision.
Miss G's policy, like all other car insurance policies, allows Advantage to take over and 
conduct the defence or settlement of any claim. So it was entitled to settle the claim, on the best terms it thinks fit. And it has the ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim. But it 
must exercise this right fairly and reasonably.
I've reviewed the way Advantage has handled the claim and I have the same concerns as 
the investigator. Advantage has told us that it didn't ask the firm handling the other party's 
claim to provide photographs of the damage. And I think, given the concerns that Miss G had 
raised, Advantage should have asked for photographs of the damage. Although I'm 
conscious that Miss G had already provided photographs of the car.
However, I also have to think about whether the outcome would have been different had 
Advantage requested this information. And I don't think it would. It's said that it will always 
look to defend a claim where it can, but it has to consider the likely outcome should the 
matter proceed to court. And it's fair and reasonable that it does so. Advantage has said 
that, given Miss G doesn't dispute hitting the other car, it was always going to have to settle 
at least part of the claim.
I've reviewed the repair invoice for the other driver's car and the repair damage is in the 
same area that Miss G has said the two cars collided. Given this, I'm not persuaded that 
Advantage would have chosen to allow this claim to proceed to court and I think it would 
have still chosen to settle the other driver's claim in full even if it had full photographic 
evidence of the claim. Given this, I don't think Miss G has lost out due to the way Advantage 
has handled the claim's defence. So I don't think Advantage needs to compensate Miss G 
for this.
However, I do agree that it could have given better customer service to Miss G during the 
claim process and Advantage accepts that. I can see that it didn't keep Miss G updated and 
she had to continually contact Advantage to find out what was happening with the claim. It 
also sent the initial compensation cheque to the wrong address and didn't contact Miss G 
when it said it would. But Advantage has already paid Miss G £175 in compensation. And 
this is in line with the amount that I would have awarded. So I don't think it needs to pay her 
anything further in this respect.
I appreciate that Miss G feels strongly about this matter and that she thinks Advantage has 
settled what she thinks to be a fraudulent claim. But, for the reasons I've set out above, I 
don't intend to require Advantage to do anything further."
Miss G didn't think my provisional decision was fair. She said that she understood that she 
would be found at fault for the claim. But she remained unhappy with the way Advantage 
dealt with her as a customer. She said that it consistently made promises which it didn't keep 
and breached her confidentiality by writing to her former address which she said she left due 
to difficult circumstances. And she said that this caused her great distress. 
Miss G said that Advantage didn't give her any updates when it was necessary for her to 
get quotes for a new car insurance policy. 
Miss G acknowledged that Advantage paid her some compensation But she says that this 
was for her initial complaint to them and not for what happened afterwards. She said that 
she suffered a financial loss due to the length of time it took to settle the claim as she said 
that she had to accept the quote it gave for her insurance renewal. And she said that she 
couldn't get a quote from other insurers as she said she didnt know the value of the claim. 
She's unhappy that it took Advantage so long to settle the claim, but she thinks that it then 
came to a conclusion which she thinks showed no real investigation or consideration. And 
she said that this made her very anxious.Ultimately she didn't think my provisional decision fully took into account Advantage's 
treatment of her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've taken everything Miss G has said into account, but I've come to the same conclusion as 
the one I reached in my provisional decision. 
I should first state that it's not this service's role to fine and punish a business where 
something has gone wrong. Our role is to look to see whether the business has done what it 
should have done and, if it hasn't, whether it's taken fair steps to put things right.
As I set out in my provisional decision I think Advantage should have investigated the claim 
further. But I don't think the situation would have changed had it done so. I do agree with 
Miss G that the claim did take longer than it should have done, as it seems to have taken 
around 15 months to finalise it. I note Miss G's comments in respect to the cost of renewal. 
But I have to think about whether Advantage should have reasonably settled the claim 
before Miss G had to renew the policy.  
I acknowledge that the claim was still ongoing when Miss G's policy was up for renewal in 
February 2018  around eight months after the claim. But I don't think I've seen enough to 
say that Advantage should have reasonably settled the claim before this date. Miss G 
disputed that she'd caused the damage to the other driver's car. So Advantage was entitled 
to initially look to defend the claim. And it was still doing so in February 2018.
I fully appreciate that Miss G's premium may have been higher due to the fact Advantage 
hadn't settled the claim at that point. But I'm also conscious that she spoke with Advantage 
in January 2018  just before the policy renewed  and it explained how much the other 
driver was claiming, and she reiterated that she didn't think Advantage should be settling the 
claim. So she was aware of the claim cost at the time.
Ultimately, I think it's most likely that the claim would have still been open when Miss G 
renewed the policy, even if Advantage had handled the claim in the way it should have done. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, the concerns I have are that I think it should have got 
further information to assist with its investigation. But I don't think Miss G has lost out as a 
result of this.
I note Miss G's comments that the compensation Advantage offered was for its initial errors. 
And it's clear that Advantage has unfairly caused Miss G distress and inconvenience for the 
reasons she set out. But I have to think about whether the amount she's received in 
compensation is fair taking into account everything that's happened. And I remain of the 
opinion that it is.
My final decision
Advantage Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £175 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it's caused Miss G due to the way it 
handled the claim. And, for the reasons I've set out above, I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 I understand that its already paid this to Miss G. But it should pay this to her directly if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman