DRN-4037176
The complaint
Mr B complains about how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) dealt with a 
balance refund.
What happened
Mr B says he closed his AESEL account in December 2022 and in January 2023 called it 
about a credit of just over £17 on the account. He says AESEL told him its systems didnt 
recognise his bank account and was told he would be sent a cheque. Mr B says he was then 
told to provide his account statement and was provided with a link that didnt work. He would 
like compensation for what took place and says AESEL breached Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) rules. 
AESEL says it must follow rules on the return of a credit balance and says it no longer held 
Mr Bs account details. It says it needed Mr Bs documents before processing the refund but 
accepts it shouldnt have told Mr B, he would receive a cheque when he first called. AESEL 
says its paid £25 for that and for any inconvenience caused.
Mr B brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought AESEL had followed its process for the refund and thought the compensation 
appropriate.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and in summary questions why he had to ask for the refund 
and questions why AESEL sent him a cheque if it needed his account details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint and dont 
require AESEL to increase its compensation amount. I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed 
by my decision.
I hope it assists Mr B to understand our role here. We are not AESELs regulator and so its 
not our role to direct it about how it applied a refund as here or how it complies with its 
regulatory duties. I make that clear as I think the main parts of Mr Bs complaint are about 
AESEL not complying with FCA directions, how it handled a refund and that it didnt instigate 
the refund itself but relied on Mr B contacting it.
I appreciate Mr Bs frustration that he was asked to provide a bank statement from an 
account he used to pay AESEL in the past, that for unknown reasons could not be verified. I 
also accept that although Mr B provided the account information, he was given a cheque 
which could be cashed into a different account. I dont think AESEL has explained clearly 
why it made that request and I think it likely it was for identity evidence rather than evidence 
of an account. I have made clear its up to AESEL to decide how it complies with its 
regulatory duties about such matters.
Overall, I accept that AESEL could have dealt with what ought to have been a simple 
process of applying a refund more appropriately. But I also think its paid an appropriate 
compensation amount of £25 and refunded the account balance. I dont think Mr B suffered 
any real financial loss and think his inconvenience was in providing the account identity 
documents as well as having to speak to AESEL on what I think were relatively short 
telephone calls. I also think this was a relatively small refund of just over £17 and I have not 
seen evidence of, for example, financial hardship caused by a slight delay in returning the 
balance.
I have made clear that I cant fairly comment on AESELs process in these circumstances or 
why its systems could not locate Mr Bs account.
I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman