DRN-2809204
The complaint
Mrs L says MSR Partners LLP (MSR) recommended an unsuitable Enterprise Investment 
Scheme (EIS) fund to her in 2012. She invested £100,000 into the fund and says she has 
lost around half of her investment. She seeks compensation for this and for fees retained by 
MSR.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He concluded that it should not be upheld 
and, in the main, he found as follows:
The EIS was a film partnership operated by a third party  Regent Capital (RC); it 
was recommended to Mrs L on 22 February 2012 as a substitute for a solar energy 
EIS opportunity that was discussed with her on 17 February but subsequently 
became unavailable; a copy of the memorandum for the RC EIS was issued 
alongside the email of 22 February that conveyed the recommendation; the deadline 
to invest in the RC fund was 27 February; both parties met, and Mrs L submitted her 
application for the RC fund, on this date. There is evidence that there was pressure 
upon her to meet this deadline. 
EIS funds are a type of Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS), which 
are broadly of a higher risk level and which should be promoted to clients only in 
limited circumstances. There is evidence of the declaration given by Mrs L, as a high 
net worth and sophisticated investor, consenting to the promotion of EIS funds to her. 
Some promotions were made to her prior to her declaration, but this appears to have 
been immaterial to her investment decision  it is more likely (than not) that she 
would have proceeded with the EIS and RC investment regardless.
EIS funds are investments normally associated with the potential for tax reliefs, and 
some potential for returns.
Mrs L says she had no previous experience of EIS funds in 2012, but there is 
evidence that she had previous investment experience in a Venture Capital Trust 
(VCT) fund (in 2010)  which was a comparable [potential] tax mitigation investment 
 and evidence that she invested in another EIS fund in 2013.
The suitability report, dated 16 March 2012, was given to Mrs L over 16 days after 
the RC investment; and the risk profile questionnaire for her was processed on 8 
March 2012 but evidence from MSR is that it was completed with her during the 
meeting on 27 February 2012. 
The expectation would have been for key documents like the suitability report and the 
risk profile questionnaire to have been produced prior to Mrs L making her 
investment decision, and despite the investment deadline she should not have been 
rushed into making that decision. However, this service does not consider cases in 
punitive terms; so the idea is to consider if production of the key documents ahead of 
her decision and if the absence of pressure on her to decide would have made a 
material difference; and available evidence is that Mrs L would still have invested in 
the RC fund in such a scenario. 
In terms of considering suitability of the RC fund for Mrs L, the suitability report is 
reliable because there is no evidence of her disputing its contents at the time. It 
confirms that she was 51 at the time of advice, she had no specific income or capital 
growth related objectives, she was prepared to keep her £100,000 capital invested 
for the term of the fund and the investment served the purpose of mitigating a large 
income tax liability she had  with investing for tax relief clearly being her objective. 
Investments suited for such an objective would have been limited and they were 
unlikely to include lower risk investments. However, the EIS RC fund met her tax 
relief objective, with an imminent prospect of a £20,000 tax rebate.
The fund, being an EIS, was inherently high risk (especially in terms of capital loss 
and illiquidity risks) but the trade-off was the potential tax relief that could be 
achieved through it. In terms of capacity for loss (that is, ability to absorb potential 
losses), Mrs L had such capacity given that her £100,000 investment in the RC fund 
sat in the context of her wider portfolio of investments (featuring low to medium risk 
assets and some assets jointly held with her partner) valued at around £2.35 million 
and in the context of her retaining (solely) almost £600,000 in cash even after the RC 
fund investment. The fact that most of the £2.35 million valued portfolio mainly 
consisted of low to medium risk assets also meant that despite the allocation of 
£100,000 to a high risk EIS fund the portfolio remained balanced overall. 
Mrs L says she has always been risk averse, that her knowledge of investments was 
minimal and that she agreed to the RC fund investment only because MSR assured 
her it held no risk, but MSR says the opposite. The balance of available evidence, 
especially the suitability report (which she did not dispute at the time) supports 
MSRs position in this respect. The suitability report and the memorandum for the 
fund gave her information about the high risks in the fund. The fund was described as 
being of a lower risk than other EIS funds but that was different to saying the EIS 
fund was low risk in general.
Mrs L disagreed, strongly, with the investigators findings and conclusion. She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. In the main, she said:
The memorandum for the RC fund was not given to her at the time of the investment 
and her first sight of it was when the investigator shared a copy with her. Its contents 
convey high risks in the fund which conflict with MSRs assurances to her that it was 
a low risk fund because the underlying films had been pre-sold. MSR also 
misrepresented the term for the fund by telling her it was 3.5 years, yet many years 
later the return of almost half of her investment remains outstanding.
The risk profile questionnaire document was also not given at the time of the 
investment and was not seen until a copy was shared in 2021. The profile score of 58 
she was given is disputed, it is higher than she expected, it is higher than her 
partners score of 55 (despite him having always had a higher risk profile score than 
her) and it is higher than the profile score of 47 assessed for her by another firm in 
2020. The investigators finding that the bulk of her pre-existing portfolio was held in 
low to medium risk funds supports her assertion about being reluctant to undertake 
risks. Her approach towards the VCT investment she made in 2010 has been 
misunderstood, the VCT fund was properly sold and all relevant documentation was 
available to her before she decided to invest in it. She made the investment two 
months thereafter, so she was not rushed and, in contrast to the £100,000 she 
invested in the RC fund, she invested only £15,000 in the VCT fund. Similar points 
apply to the second EIS investment she made in 2013.
MSRs recommendation lacked diversification  diversification being a basic 
requirement in investments.
The suitability report was received after the cooling off period for her investment had 
expired. Added to the non-receipt of the memorandum document, the unreasonable 
result was that sale related documentation was not provided to her prior to her 
purchase of the investment. This was fundamentally wrong. By the time she received the suitability report it was too late to raise any issues about its contents and, in any 
case, she trusted the MSR adviser.
Personal circumstances around the time of the recommendation [which were 
summarised in her submissions] meant she was very busy at the time of the 
investment and was reliant upon MSR to advise her suitably. Having paid a fee to 
MSR for its advisory service she should not have had to make all the financial 
decisions herself. 
The investigator was wrong to find that she was a sophisticated investor at the time 
of advice, she was not; he was wrong to take a dismissive view on the 
documentation that was not given to her prior to the investment being made; he was 
wrong not to apply a punitive approach towards MSRs failures in this respect; and he 
was wrong to find that she was keen to invest for tax reliefs without also 
acknowledging that she would not have done so had she known about the 
associated risks.
The investigator did not change his view and the matter was referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Promotion
Mrs Ls complaint mainly alleges that the RC fund was an unsuitable investment that MSR 
should not have recommended to her. Like the investigator, I have also considered how the 
fund was promoted to her  aside from whether (or not) it was suitable for her. 
I share his findings about evidence that some UCIS/EIS promotion to Mrs L had taken place 
before her consent to such promotion had been obtained. I too do not consider this to be 
meaningful to my consideration of the complaint. I consider it more important that her 
consent was obtained before the RC fund investment on 27 February 2012. MSRs UCIS 
promotion letter, dated 24 February 2012, informed her about UCIS investments, about how 
the regulator regarded them and about how MSR had assessed them as appropriate for 
promotion to her. 
A copy of the promotion response form, signed and dated by Mrs L on 27 February 2012, 
has been shared with this service and it confirms that her consent was not obtained later 
than her investment decision (on the same date). Within it, she acknowledged that UCIS 
promotions are otherwise prohibited by regulation but with her consent she can receive 
them; and that they promoted schemes which were neither authorised nor regulated. On the 
same date, she provided a signed and dated self-certification/declaration as a high net worth 
individual. There is also a supplementary agreement signed by Mrs L on the same date, in 
which she agreed with her classification as a category 8 client, which the promotion letter of 
24 February had explained to her.
As they were in February 2012, the regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS)  
under COBS 4.12.1R  permitted a firm to promote UCIS investments to retail clients only if 
such clients fell within a prescribed exemption category. Category 8 was one such category 
and it covered a client: 
 to whom the firm has undertaken an adequate assessment of his expertise, experience 
and knowledge and that assessment gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of 
the transactions or services envisaged, that the person is capable of making his own 
investment decisions and understanding the risks involved to whom the firm has given a clear written warning that this will enable the firm to 
promote unregulated collective investment schemes to the client 
who has stated in writing, in a document separate from the contract, that he is aware of the 
fact the firm can promote certain unregulated collective investment schemes to him
This was broadly the message in the promotion letter sent to Mrs L, which she agreed. 
Overall and on balance, I consider that by the time of her investment in the RC fund its 
promotion to Mrs L was not unlawful and was done with her express consent. 
Advice
Important elements, related to the suitability (or otherwise) of an investment, apply to Mrs Ls 
case for the same purpose. They include  affordability (in terms of net wealth and capacity 
for capital loss); an investors objective, attitude to risk (ATR) and investment experience; 
evidence on whether (or not) the investors objective, ATR and experience were properly 
determined with and by the adviser; the need for the investor to have been properly informed 
about the investment (and its risks); and then the question of whether (or not) the advisers 
recommendation matched the investors overall profile. 
I address these elements below, in relation to Mrs Ls case. Before doing so, I will consider 
the matter of point-of-sale evidence, given that the credibility of some documents is disputed 
in this respect. I note Mrs Ls arguments about MSR committing fundamental wrongdoings in 
its provision (or otherwise) of documents related to her investment, and for which she 
believes MSR should face consequences. As the investigator sought to explain, this service 
does not take a punitive approach towards firms in the complaints we address. If Mrs L 
seeks such an approach and believes MSR has committed a regulatory wrongdoing, it is 
within her discretion to consider referring her concerns to the industry regulator (the 
Financial Conduct Authority). This services approach is focused on determining a complaint, 
not on punishing a firm. 
It appears to be agreed that the suitability report was given to Mrs L after her investment in 
the RC fund. It follows that it cannot safely be found that she made her investment decision 
based, directly, on what the report conveyed to her  because she did not have the report 
before making that decision. However, on balance, I am satisfied that the report captured 
what was told to her by the adviser prior to her investment decision  and that she made her 
investment decision based on that, so the report is essentially a record of what induced her 
investment. 
I agree with the investigators finding that the absence of evidence showing Mrs L disputing 
the report at the time suggests she agreed with its contents; and I disagree with her rebutting 
argument that receipt of the report after the investment was made meant it was too late to 
object to or correct it. Indeed, I consider that if the report was inaccurate in any meaningful 
way it is more likely (than not) that Mrs L would have been alerted to the notion that her 
investment had potentially been misinformed  because of any such inaccuracy  and that 
she would, at least, have queried further. There is no available evidence of this. Overall and 
on balance, I consider that even though the report was received after the investment its 
contents accurately presented the information shared between both parties prior to the 
investment and that is probably why Mrs L had no cause to object to it.
Mrs L says she did not receive the memorandum for the RC fund. The balance of available 
documentary evidence does not support her in this respect. In particular, within the signed 
and dated documentation for her application  to buy shares in the fund  she gave a 
declaration that she had  read a copy, understood and agreed to the terms and conditions contained in the Memorandum and this application form including the risk factors on pages 
20  22 of the Memorandum and [had] taken all the appropriate advice  and that [she was] 
aware of the special risks involved in participating in an investment of this nature, and [she 
understood] that [her] application [was] made upon the terms of the Memorandum and this 
application form.
On balance, I consider it implausible that Mrs L could have wilfully executed the application 
documents for her RC fund investment, that featured references to the memorandum as 
depicted above, without having first received the memorandum  and she would reasonably 
have been expected to read such a document upon receipt of it. There are further 
references, in the application documentation, to the memorandum that I have not quoted. In 
addition, and as I mentioned in the background section above, the investigator highlighted 
that a copy of the memorandum was sent alongside MSRs email to her of 22 February 
2012.
Receipt of the risk assessment document is also in dispute. However, I consider that the 
assessment score itself is the more relevant evidence in this respect  as is how Mrs Ls risk 
profile was addressed in the suitability report. I address this further below.
Affordability
Mrs L has made a reasonable point that warns against wrongly diluting a firms responsibility 
to give suitable advice merely because an investor was/is wealthy. I agree that an investors 
wealth should not make an unsuitable recommendation suitable and should not reduce a 
firms obligation to give suitable advice. However, affordability  an investors net wealth and 
financial capacity  creates a basis to assess capacity for loss, which relates to whether (or 
not) the investor has the financial resources to recover from losses in an investment.
As I summarised above, the investigator found that  In terms of capacity for loss (that is, 
ability to absorb potential losses),  Mrs L had such capacity given that her £100,000 
investment in the RC fund sat in the context of her wider portfolio of investments (featuring 
low to medium risk assets and some jointly held with her partner) valued at around £2.35 
million and in the context of her retaining (solely) almost £600,000 in cash even after the RC 
fund investment.
I too consider that the RC fund investment was affordable for Mrs L  and that she had the 
capacity for loss to match such an investment  in the same overall context. The investment 
represented 1/7th of what appears to have been her cash reserve and around 4% of her 
wider portfolio of investments (some shared with her partner). Neither was disproportionate. 
This does not mean that she would have wanted to lose her capital or that loss of capital 
would not have had an impact upon her. I do not consider that she wanted to lose her capital 
and I accept that such a loss would have made an impact. However, key points are that the 
outlay was not disproportionate to her other assets and she had the overall financial capacity 
to recover from such a loss, so the investment was not unsuitable and was not a mismatch 
in this respect.
Objective
MSRs description of Mrs Ls objective is supported by available documentary evidence. She 
sought to mitigate her tax liability through an investment. 
The suitability report featured this and no other meaningful objective. The supplementary 
agreement she signed on 27 February 2012 did the same. EIS funds are commonly 
considered and used, only or mainly, for tax mitigation and tax relief purposes. Indeed, the 
potential to achieve tax benefits associated with investment capital is inherent within the characteristics of such funds, as they were created to give investors an incentive (a tax relief 
related incentive) to apply their capital to smaller higher risk [approved] companies that could 
or would otherwise lack access to such capital. 
The suitability report explains that Mrs L had a tax mitigation objective related to her 
2010/2011 income and her 2011/2012 income tax liability. Overall and on balance, I consider 
that the recommendation of an EIS fund  the RC fund  did not mismatch her objective.
ATR and Investment Experience
Mrs Ls ATR score was 58. The risk assessment document  which it appears to be agreed 
was completed during the meeting on 27 February 2012, leading to the investment on the 
same date  defined this score as  a higher-than-average score, higher than 77%
of all scores. The document proceeds to reflect where Mrs Ls profile varied from what was 
normally expected from an investor with that score  for example, it noted that she remained 
more sensitive to risks than the average person with that score. She says the score is 
questionable as it was higher that the score of 55 assessed for her partner at the time and 
higher than the score of 47 assessed for her in 2020. Previously, and in her letter to this 
service in 2019, Mrs L said she had recently (at the time) been assessed at the score of 51, 
which she understood to be a medium ATR. 
The suitability report is a document that Mrs L saw, could have objected to but did not object 
to. It set out that she had opted to take a higher risk approach for the particular venture into 
an EIS investment and for the purpose of addressing her tax mitigation objective, and that 
the RC fund was more conservative than other EIS funds. Nevertheless, the memorandum 
document made explicitly clear the high risks in the fund and the suitability report did the 
same by saying  
EIS investments have historically been considered to be more risky investments which is 
why tax relief is provided as an incentive to induce private investors to invest into smaller 
and unquoted trading companies. 
Over recent years, however, EIS providers have managed to offer funds aimed at minimising 
the risks typically associated with EIS investments. Clearly there is still an investment risk 
attached and the value of the investment may go down as well as up but the reduction to the 
level of risk taken is proving to be a significant incentive.
EISs are deemed to be high risk in nature, which means that they are only really suitable as 
an investment if you are prepared to accept the inherent risks involved in investing into 
smaller unquoted trading companies (with a view to gaining access to the early and most 
profitable stages of a companys development). The most obvious downsides in respect of 
this investment is if a film is not completed and the pre-sale contract could not be collected 
and any deposit paid by the distributor would have to be repaid, or there is a change in 
legislation in respect of EIS or film tax credits. This is, however, minimised by the insurance 
contracts in place and the fact that legislation is rarely retrospective.
I would also draw your attention to the risk warnings on pages 20 & 23 of the Information 
Memorandum which I supplied to you in my email date 23 February.
Mrs L is correct in saying that the inference to be drawn from the overall low to medium risk 
profile of her pre-existing portfolio is that she was a low to medium risk investor. I agree. 
However, it remains the case that investors can sometimes invest outside their usual ATR 
for a specific purpose and/or for an isolated reason. I am persuaded that this was what 
happened with the RC fund investment. I do not suggest that Mrs L was generally a high-risk 
taker and it does not appear that MSR suggests this. Instead, evidence shows that she made the informed decision to adopt a higher risk ATR and approach for her tax mitigation 
investment objective. As such, she had no cause to object to the risk warnings in the 
memorandum document  sent to her before her investment  and those in the suitability 
report (which she received shortly after the investment but could still have objected to). I also 
consider that her concession that 51 was an appropriate ATR score makes it arguable that 
the score of 58 was broadly in the same region of appropriateness.
It is also noteworthy that the risk assessment document appears to say that a profile with the 
score of 58 would usually have around 50% of a portfolio exposed to higher risks, but in   
Mrs Ls case she would have no more than 10% of her portfolio exposed to higher risks. As I 
mentioned earlier, Mrs L had only around 4% of her wider low to medium risk portfolio of 
investments (some jointly held) exposed to the higher risk RC fund. This was well below 
10%.
Relevant to Mrs Ls ATR in 2012 is her VCT investment experience in 2010. I accept that a 
VCT fund can be a more diversified investment than an EIS fund and that it can bear a little 
less risk than the risk in an EIS fund, but they are both higher risk types of investments that 
share broadly the same characteristics of potential tax mitigation benefits as a trade-off for 
investors undertaking higher risks. In other words, it was fair for MSR to regard her 2010 
experience as relevant to and comparable to the EIS recommendation in 2012. It appears 
probable that Mrs L made a similar, but earlier, isolated decision to depart from her usual 
ATR for the VCT investment, and she appears to have done the same in 2012 and then in 
2013 for the two EIS investments.
Overall and on balance, I consider that Mrs L was given enough information  and had 
enough comparable experience  to know that the RC fund was a higher risk venture; and 
that the higher risk ATR she adopted for the specific objective she had in 2012 did not 
mismatch the risks within the fund. It is difficult to comment on what she says she was 
verbally told by the adviser  some of which she says was annotated on some of the 
documents that have been shared with us. Even if I accept that she was told what she 
claims to have been told, the facts are that no formal and/or documented guarantees were 
given to her and the suitability report and memorandum documents presented prominent 
warnings about high risks. As such, she was informed that those risks still applied to her 
investment  regardless of what she was or was not told verbally. Given that she did not 
query further (or object), before and/or after the investment, it appears that she wilfully 
accepted the inherent risks in her investment  which were not unsuitable for her  alongside 
what she was told verbally.
Conclusion
Overall, on balance and for the reasons set out above, I am persuaded that Mrs Ls overall 
investor profile was properly determined in 2012 and that the RC fund recommended to her 
did not mismatch that profile (inclusive of her objective and her ATR). As such, I do not 
accept her claim that it was an unsuitable recommendation. 
I have been mindful of the point noted by the investigator, with regards to Mrs L appearing to 
have been rushed into the RC fund investment. This appears to have been defined by the 
deadline for applications to invest in the fund. Ideally, Mrs L should have had more time than 
she was given between the first mention of the fund on 22 February 2012 and the meeting in 
which she invested in the fund (on 27 February 2012), but I am also mindful that she had 
previously (since MSRs email to her on 17 February about the solar energy fund, which was 
thereafter substituted by the RC fund) considered another EIS investment. In this context, 
the idea of a higher risk EIS investment was not new to her on 22 February  and she had 
some time before that to consider her position on such an investment. Overall and on balance, I do not consider that the somewhat rushed nature of Mrs Ls investment in the RC 
fund rendered it unsuitable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman