DRN-3492683
The complaint
Miss Q complains that the changes in National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) charging 
structure and the actions taken by it in registering a default on her credit file caused her 
financial difficulty. Miss Q is also unhappy about the service she received and the wording of 
NatWests letters to her.
What happened
NatWest dont agree that we can look at a complaint about the charges and default applied 
to Miss Qs overdraft and account because it says Miss Q had referred these elements of 
her complaint to us too late.
But following bringing her complaint to this service NatWest offered Miss Q £125 to settle 
her complaint point regarding issues that may not have been addressed previously  such 
as the wording of its letters.
Miss Q didnt wish to accept this offer and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Why I can look into only part of this complaint
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that 
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Miss Q has raised a number of complaints with NatWest over the last few years. Two of 
which form part of Miss Qs most recent complaint:
1. That the change in charging structure caused her financial difficulty; and
2. The default applied to her account.
Miss Q has previously raised complaints about the above issues in October and November 
2020. And NatWest issued final response letters to these complaint points in November 
2020. Ive seen a copy of these final response letters and Im satisfied they fit the meaning 
for a final response as defined in the DISP rules - including the referral rights setting out the 
six month time limit. This means Miss Q had until May 2021 to refer the matter to this 
service. But she didnt do so until 14 July 2021, so I conclude the complaint points above 
were referred to us out of time under the rules that I have to apply.
But Im allowed to investigate complaints referred outside of the time limit if Im satisfied the
delay was due to exceptional circumstances. Miss Q hasnt told us of any exceptional 
circumstances and as such because Miss Q didnt refer her complaint in time my decision is 
Im unable to look into Miss Qs complaint about the charges and default applied to her 
account. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Qs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
The part of Miss Qs complaint that we can look at is about the wording of NatWests letters. 
But before I go any further I want to be clear in saying the words NatWest choses to use in 
its communications with its customers and how it runs its business are commercial decisions 
and ultimately not something wed get involved with.
NatWest have confirmed that the wording is in-line with the FCA guidelines and as such I 
cant say that NatWest has made an error or done anything wrong. But nevertheless it has 
offered Miss Q compensation of £125 to settle her complaint which I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and Im not going to ask it to do anything 
more. Miss Q should now decide whether she wishes to accept NatWests offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Miss Q is fair and reasonable and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman