DRN-3394219
The complaint
Mr V complains that Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd shouldnt have continued to 
renew his cooker protection policy after it became too old to be eligible for cover.
What happened
Mr V had cooker protection cover underwritten by Fortegra. Hed had the cover since 2010. 
But after looking at the policy documents he thought the policy only provided cover for 
cookers for the first eight years of their life. Mr V is unhappy Fortegra carried on taking his 
payments even though they didnt insure older cookers. So hed like a refund of the 
premiums paid after his cooker was no longer covered.
Fortegra said the terms and conditions of the policy stated it provided cover for a cooker 
which was less than eight years old when the policy was taken out. That meant the engineer 
wouldnt carry out any repairs if they attended and found the cooker was over eight years old 
when the policy had first started. It didnt mean it would cancel the policy after the cooker 
was eight years old. Mr Vs cooker had continued to be covered even when it was over eight 
years old. And hed had the benefit of continuing cover while he paid the premiums.
Mr V wasnt satisfied with Fortegras response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She said each renewal formed a new policy. So if the 
cooker was eight years old at the point of renewal it was no longer covered. Our investigator 
felt Mr V had enough information in the renewal documents to make him aware cover 
wouldnt be offered. And she wouldnt ask Fortegra to do anything more.
Mr V didnt agree with our investigator. He didnt feel the renewal policy wasnt clear. So hes 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator but for different reasons.
Mr V took out a cooker protection policy when his appliance was installed in 2010. Hed 
renewed every year. But after reading the policy terms he was concerned the policy no 
longer covered his cooker as it was more than eight years old. So Mr V cancelled his policy 
part-way through the current term. And he wants Fortegra to refund the premiums hed paid 
when his cooker was no longer covered. 
Ive looked at the documentation provided by Mr V. And I can see he received some 
changes to the terms and conditions of the policy in 2013. The previous terms said there 
was an 8 year age eligibility at renewal. But this had been replaced. And the new age 
eligibility clause said this policy covers a cooker which is less than 8 years old when you first 
took out the policy.
Ive looked at the policy documents for later years and they confirm the policy covers a 
cooker which is less than eight years old when the policy was first taken out. This means the 
age stipulation is only applicable when the policy is first taken out. Mr Vs cooker had 
continued to be covered even when it was over eight years old.
Fortegra said itd checked with its dedicated team and theyd confirmed that to be entitled to 
purchase the policy the cooker has to be less than eight years old. If the cooker then 
reaches eight years in age or over Fortegra would continue to cover the cooker. The product 
information document received by Mr V, under cookers that arent covered, shows those 
over 8 years old when the policy is first started. And Mr V wouldve received similar 
confirmation each year at renewal.    
I understand Mr V has now cancelled his cooker policy. I appreciate policy documents can 
be confusing. And Id expect the insurer to make the terms as clear as possible for the 
policyholder so they can make an informed decision when they take out the policy and at 
each renewal. 
But based on what Ive seen I think Fortegra has provided Mr V with clear documentation 
every year. It explains the cooker policy doesnt provide cover for any cooker that was more 
than eight years old when the policy first started. But Mr Vs cooker was new when he 
started the policy in 2010. So I think its clear that his cover continued even though his 
cooker was now older.
I can see Fortegra has refunded part of Mr Vs premiums after he cancelled the policy. But 
Mr V had the benefit of continuing cover even though his cooker was over eight years old. 
And if hed needed to make a claim in the last few years Fortegra has confirmed his cooker 
would still have been covered. So I wont be asking Fortegra to refund any more premiums.
I hope Ive explained the reasons behind my decision. And why I wont be asking Fortegra to 
do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman