DRN-2382019
The complaint
Ms G complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited provided poor 
advice to transfer deferred benefits from an occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a 
personal pension. She says that she wasnt made aware of the benefits she was giving up or 
the risk associated with transferring.
What happened
Ms G met with an adviser from Sun Life in 1996. She had a preserved pension with her 
former OPS. It related to a period of service from March 1991 to February 1996. Ms G had 
left the employment of the company providing the OPS to become self-employed. So she no 
longer had access to an OPS.
Sun Life obtained details from Ms Gs OPS to establish the transfer value and benefits of 
that scheme. They carried out a financial planning profile. At the time she was 32 years old 
with a planned retirement age of 60. She was self-employed with contracts for the next three 
years giving an idea of her income in the short term.
Sun Life produced a transfer value analysis (TVAS), which set out comparisons of the 
benefits of the OPS and a personal pension. Its dated November 1996. It stated that at that 
time the critical yield was 10.6% a year. This was the average amount that the investment 
needed to increase each year to provide equivalent benefits to the OPS scheme Ms G was 
transferring from.
Sun Life recommended that Ms G transfer her preserved OPS pension to a personal 
pension. Ms G accepted the recommendation and transferred her OPS pension in 
December 1996 into two personal pensions. These were both unit linked pension plans. One 
was set up with the transfer value of the contributions to Ms Gs pension (non-protected 
rights) and the other with the transfer value accrued by contracting out of the State Earnings 
Related Pension Scheme (protected rights).
Ms G complained to Sun Life via a representative about the sale of her pension. The 
complaint was:
It was unrealistic that a critical yield of 12.67% would be exceeded by enough to 
make the transfer advisable
Risk profiling was contradictory
There was no evidence that Ms G was made aware of what she was giving up in 
transferring 
Sun Life didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint. They explained that Ms G had been given a full 
explanation of the risks associated with the transfer. They pointed out that the critical yield of 
12.67% related to the growth needed to match the tax-free cash part of Ms Gs OPS 
benefits. They explained that the critical yield in order to match retirement income  which 
they said was Ms Gs priority  was 10.25% at the point of initial advice in May 1996 and 
10.6% when the transfer took place in December 1996. They said that the preserved OPS 
benefits represented a small proportion of Ms Gs final pension planning so she may well 
have been willing to take a risk over the 29 years to planned retirement.
Ms G disagreed with Sun Lifes response and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Ms Gs complaint. He compared the critical yield figure of 10.6% with 
the discount rate published by the regulator for that time - which was 9.9% given a 
retirement age of 55. So he didnt think the personal pensions outperforming the critical yield 
was likely. He thought that the preserved OPS benefits represented a significant part of 
Ms Gs retirement provision which wasnt taken into consideration. So he didnt think the 
transfer was suitable for Ms G.
Sun Life disagreed with our investigators assessment. Sun Life said that the evidence 
showed Ms G fully understood the risks, so the case came down to her capacity and 
willingness to accept the risk. They didnt accept it was fair to consider that the five years 
worth of benefits in the OPS in question would have been considered a significant part of 
Ms Gs retirement provision when the advice was given.
This case was referred for an ombudsman decision. I issued a provisional decision to both 
parties letting them know my thoughts on this case.
What I said in my provisional findings
Sun Life have provided us with the documentation relating to the transfer in 1996. Their 
adviser carried out a pension fact find. The fact find was signed by Ms G in August 1996, so 
I think that its more likely than not that she wouldve seen it and the contents would have 
formed part of the discussion she had with the adviser. The critical yield on that report was 
10.25%. The report noted that Ms G felt this can be achieved. It doesnt elaborate on why 
Ms G would have thought this or what experience or expertise her opinion was based on. 
Ms G was obtaining financial advice because she didnt have the expert knowledge to know 
what was best for her pension planning. Deciding whether a return of 10.25% a year was 
achievable doesnt seem something that Ms G could likely have confidently formed an 
opinion of without the advice she was being given.
The advice Ms G was given was during the period when the industry regulator was 
publishing 'discount rates' for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide 
Pensions Review. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
wouldve been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement was quoted as 10.6% per year when the transfer went ahead. This compares with 
the discount rate of 9.8% per year for 28 years to retirement in this case. I have used a 
retirement age of 60 as this was the figure that Sun Life used for their illustrations. The 
critical yield figure was merely the figure to provide the same benefits Ms G was giving up. 
So Ms Gs fund had to grow by around 11% for her to improve on the benefits she was 
giving up and make a transfer worthwhile. This would have been 1.2% higher than the 
discount rate at the time.
The fact find documented Ms Gs attitude to risk as four (speculative) with a handwritten note 
added in of five. Sun Life explained that a scale of one to five was used at the time. 
Sun Life have explained that an assessment of four/five meant Ms G had a 
balanced/aggressive attitude to investment risk. Theres no accompanying evidence why 
that conclusion was reached. In the financial planning profile it showed a sliding scale for 
Risks and expected returns. This marked 50% between three and four (medium) and 50% 
between four and five (high). And in Sun Lifes advisers conclusion it says Ms Gs attitude to risk was high/speculative and in summary said you prefer to forgo guarantees in favour of 
a unit linked asset based investment. I can see that the report explaining her attitude to risk 
was signed by Ms G in August 2006 and overall it seems Ms G was prepared to take some 
risk with her pension. Based on what Ive seen I think its likely her attitude to risk at the time 
was medium to high.
When Sun Life were advising Ms G she was still a long way from retirement, so any 
investments had time to grow. And given her attitude to risk I think achieving investment 
returns of the discount rate of 9.8% or maybe even slightly above could have possibly been 
achievable. But for this transfer to ever be of financial benefit to Ms G, it really needed to 
achieve quite a bit more year on year for 28 years. I think achieving these returns with 
medium to high risk investments were unlikely. The risk of returns falling below the critical 
yield and therefore being worse off in retirement were considerable. And even just matching 
the critical yield feels like it was quite a stretch. I think only a high to very high risk investor 
would have been prepared to take this level of risk. And I dont think Ms G was.
The defined benefits shed accumulated through her OPS, whilst not necessarily predicted to 
provide the bulk of her retirement income, were valuable. I note that Sun Life predicted that 
the benefits from Ms Gs OPS would have equated to only 3.86% of her final earnings at 
age 60. I think that this was misleading and may have led Ms G to underestimate the value 
of these benefits in retirement. The transfer value analysis (TVAS) showed that the revalued 
benefits of the OPS would pay £12,193 a year at 60. So even allowing for inflation and 
potential increases in income, would have very likely represented a lot more than 3.86% of 
Ms Gs retirement income. Given Ms Gs move to self-employment she wasnt likely to 
accumulate any further guaranteed benefits in the future and being self-employed there was 
more of a risk that her income and therefore pension contributions might fluctuate. So I dont 
think her capacity for loss in relation to these benefits was as high as Sun Life have said.
So for the reasons Ive given, I dont think that Ms Gs attitude to risk or capacity for loss with 
regards her OPS made this transfer advisable. 
Sun Life say that Ms G fully understood the risks. Ive seen the Key Facts Document that 
Sun Life say highlighted the risks. I agree that it explained that investment growth wasnt 
guaranteed and that there wasnt any guarantee that the benefits from the pension plan 
would be any greater than the benefits being given up. But what is important is whether the 
advice Sun Life provided was suitable for Ms G, not whether they made Ms G aware of the 
risks involved in following their advice.
Ive considered Ms Gs circumstances and any other reasons that Sun Life may have relied 
upon to advise Ms G to transfer. The documented advice says that Ms G wanted to have 
control of what types of funds her pension was invested in and that she wanted the option to 
retire early. Ive considered this. Ms G wasnt an experienced investor, so Im not convinced 
of what control she was likely to have influenced over the fund selection of her personal 
pension. And Ms Gs OPS already provided the option of early retirement. So I dont think 
these were suitable reasons to transfer her pension. 
Its also worth noting that Ms G was contacted by Sun Life after shed been provided advice 
to transfer her pension. Sun Life made her aware of an error in the advice theyd initially 
given. The part of her pension that would be transferred into the protected rights fund 
couldnt be accessed until state retirement age of 65. Sun Lifes adviser said this doesnt 
change my recommendation, which is to accept the transfer into a Personal Pension 
Transfer Account. No explanation is provided of what the impact of this was or why the 
transfer was still recommended. The split of the transfer had £2,512.98 of the total transfer value of £17,354.53 going to a 
protected rights fund that she wouldnt be able to access for five years later than the OPS 
she was transferring from. This represented over 14% of the transfer value, meaning that at 
age 60 the pension available to her would be less than the benefits of her OPS even if the 
critical yield was met. In effect, transferring from her OPS removed some of the flexibility 
over her retirement dates, that Sun Lifes adviser said she wanted. 
The response to my provisional findings
Ms G accepted my provisional findings and offered no additional evidence.
Sun Life responded and, whilst still of the view that Ms G had understood the risks of the 
transfer, accepted the outcome of my provisional decision, providing no further evidence for 
me to consider.
As both parties responded prior to the deadline, confirming acceptance and introducing no 
additional evidence I have moved to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The decision in this case hinges on whether the advice that Sun Life provided Ms G was 
suitable or not. It isnt simply about whether Ms G understood and accepted the risks. Ms G 
was entitled to expect that the recommendation Sun Life provided was most likely to be in 
her best interests.
For the reasons I explained in my provisional findings, I dont think Sun Lifes advice to 
transfer Ms Gs deferred OPS into the personal pensions was suitable. If Ms G had been 
advised that the transfer wasnt suitable, I think its more likely than not that she would have 
followed the advice and left her deferred OPS as it was.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Sun Life to put Ms G, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she wouldve remained 
in the occupational scheme. Sun Life must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line 
with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
in October 2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Ms Gs acceptance of the decision.
Sun Life may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Ms Gs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Ms Gs non-protected rights pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Ms G within 90 days of the date 
Sun Life receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Sun Life to pay Ms G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
I require Sun Life to pay Ms G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000 I additionally require Sun Life 
to pay Ms G any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000 I only require Sun Life to pay 
Ms G any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that Sun Life pays Ms G 
the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this 
balance to be paid to Ms G.
If Ms G accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Sun Life. My recommendation 
is not binding on Sun Life. Further, its unlikely that Ms G can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Ms G may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold this complaint and direct Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited to compensate Ms G in the manner Ive detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman