DRN-2380772
The complaint
Mr H complains about how MBNA Limited has handled his credit card account following a 
refund.
What happened
Mr H opened the account in January 2020 and made a money transfer on the account of 
£7,500. He says he received a refund on a purchase and MBNA took that refund off the 
money transfer balance. Mr H says MBNA has made a mess of his account and has spent 
some time trying to get matters sorted out. He would like compensation for what has taken 
place.
MBNA says it allocated the refund in line with its terms and conditions about payment 
allocation and says the refund was credited to Mr Hs account before the next statement and 
so was taken off the only available balance which was the money transfer. It doesnt accept 
making a mistake but says it has refunded interest and moved a purchase balance onto the 
interest free money transfer. It also says it could not do that immediately as there was a 
disputed transaction that had to be sorted out first.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it but did give Mr H a 
clear explanation about what had taken place and also thought MBNA hadnt explained what 
had happened as clearly as it could have. The investigator thought MBNA had acted in line 
with agreed account terms and conditions and thought it acted fairly by transferring a 
purchase balance to the money transfer balance which would save Mr H a significant 
amount of interest.
Mr H accepts what the investigator says about the payment allocation but says MBNAs 
terms and conditions are unfair and its clear its own staff dont understand them. He would 
like compensation for the time he spent trying to deal with this issue and would like the terms 
and conditions made clearer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I will explain. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision and I also 
appreciate how strongly he feels about what took place.
Im satisfied that Mr H would have agreed to the account terms and conditions when the 
credit card account was opened. Those terms and conditions explain what MBNAs payment 
allocation is and I can see that information is contained on the account statements. So, I 
dont think MBNA made a mistake by allocating Mr Hs payment in part towards the money 
transfer when he had already received an account credit as there wasnt a purchase balance 
to allocate the money to.
I can see that Mr H appears to accept what the investigator has explained about that point, 
but I say that to avoid any doubt about that issue. 
I appreciate that Mr Hs main points following the investigators view are that the terms and 
conditions are unfair and MBNA staff appear not to understand them. I make clear to Mr H 
that we are not MBNAs regulator and we are not a court. So, we cant order MBNA to 
change its account terms and conditions or makes sure its staff understand them. And that it 
would be for a court to decide if such terms and conditions are unfair. Im satisfied sufficient 
information is given about payment allocation, but I also understand why Mr H and other 
credit card users can be confused by such matters where an account has a combination of 
different interest rates.
I accept MBNA could have been clearer in explaining what had taken place to Mr H, but I 
dont think that would have avoided him spending time in contacting it about what took place 
or that it justifies compensation. I also find that there were other matters that prevented 
MBNA sorting this issue sooner such as the disputed transaction outcome. Im satisfied that 
MBNA fairly refunded interest and fairly transferred a balance to Mr Hs money transfer 
balance and so saving him interest in circumstances where I dont think it was obliged to do 
so.
Overall, I accept Mr H will have unanswered questions about the account terms and 
conditions and about what he says about others in his position. I hope Mr H understands that 
I cant deal with those matters, but Im satisfied that he has now been given an explanation 
about the payment allocation. And so, I dont require MBNA to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman