DRN-3837256
The complaint
Mrs P complains about an error made by The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (Royal London) that caused her whole of life assurance policy to lapse. Mrs Ps also 
unhappy Royal London didnt reinstate her cover until after theyd investigated things.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, rather its what Royal London should do to put things right 
that remains unresolved, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I understand my decision isnt what Mrs P wanted, I agree with the 
overall conclusion reached by the investigator. Ill explain why:
First, Id like to say its clear having life assurance in place to protect her family is 
important to Mrs P. She points out had she died during the time the policy had 
lapsed, her family wouldnt have been covered nor would they have been aware an 
error had occurred.
I can understand why Mrs P wouldve been caused both distress and inconvenience 
upon finding out her policy had lapsed, and shed not had cover in place for over two 
years prior. But I must consider how Mrs P was impacted from the time she was 
made aware  not from the point the error occurred. 
This is because Mrs P wasnt caused distress or inconvenience prior to finding out - 
she wasnt aware there was an issue. And I cant punish a business for something 
that might have happened but didnt happen. Thankfully the worst didnt happen to 
Mrs P.
Royal London offered £500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience their 
error caused. For the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this case.
Mrs Ps policy shouldnt have lapsed. It did so because of Royal Londons error, and 
in this case, Id expect them to put Mrs P back in the position she wouldve been in 
had the error not occurred. Im pleased Royal London have reinstated Mrs Ps policy 
on its original terms. 
Mrs P mitigated the risk to her family by taking out a replacement policy at a higher 
premium when she was told by Royal London her cover wouldnt be reinstated until 
the matter had been investigated.
I acknowledge Mrs P feels strongly the cost of the replacement policy should be 
reimbursed. And by this not happening the amount of compensation shes being 
offered is effectively reduced, but I dont agree this is the case. 
This is because Royal London reinstated Mrs Ps original policy as opposed to 
setting up a new policy on less favorable terms. Generally, this would require any 
outstanding premiums to be paid up  in this case three annual premiums that were 
missed. But in recognition of their error, Royal London paid these premiums to bring 
the policy up to date. 
Mrs P wouldve had to pay these premiums had Royal Londons error not occurred.
Im satisfied it would be unfair to ask Royal London to also reimburse Mrs P for the 
additional policy she took out whilst she had no cover  which is less than they 
covered to bring her reinstated policy up to date. This is cover which wouldve 
benefited her family had the worst happened and that she also has the option of 
cancelling now her original cover has been reinstated.
While I appreciate Mrs P will be disappointed with my findings, in the circumstances 
of this case, I agree Royal London did something wrong, but Im satisfied what 
theyve already offered to do to put things right is enough. 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Royal London has already made an offer to pay compensation of £500 to settle this 
complaint and I think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should pay Mrs P 
£500.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman