DRN-3753718
The complaint
Mr A complains the product he took out with ClearScore Technology Limited trading as 
ClearScore didnt prevent fraud from being committed against him. And they also didnt 
notify him when he became a victim of fraud.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr A says he paid £49.99 for a fraud protection service for a year called 
Protect Plus with ClearScore. Mr A confirmed once the year elapsed, he didnt renew the 
Protect Plus service.
Mr A says after purchasing Protect Plus, he had two forms of banking fraud and one form of 
identity fraud committed against him. Mr A says Protect Plus should have protected him from 
being a victim of fraud altogether. Mr A says part of the description of Protect Plus is that itll 
notify him of any fraud indicators on his credit report. However, he didnt receive any 
notification or alerts when the three instances of fraud were committed against him. As a 
result, Mr A wants a refund of the fee he paid as he feels the Protect Plus didnt do what it 
was designed to do.
ClearScore said Protect Plus isnt a fraud prevention service and isnt marketed as such. 
Instead, its a fraud protection service and includes benefits such as fraud case management 
and help and support should a customer fall victim to fraud. ClearScore also said Protect 
Plus would help make Mr A aware if any of his information is being used on internet 
websites. ClearScore also told Mr A that Protect Plus wouldnt stop accounts being created 
in is name. But that he would have been notified of any changes made to his credit report 
depending on what Mr As notification settings were. But ClearScore couldnt confirm what 
Mr As notifications settings were set to and whether hed opted out of receiving alerts. As a 
result, ClearScore didnt think they had acted unfairly and said they wouldnt refund the 
£49.99 Mr A paid, especially as it was a non-refundable payment.
Unhappy with ClearScores response, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into Mr As concerns. Ultimately, she concluded there wasnt sufficient 
evidence to show Mr A was notified of the fraudulent accounts as he ought to have been and 
so she recommended ClearScore refund Mr A half of the Protect Plus annual fee. Mr A didnt 
respond to say whether he thought this was fair or not. But ClearScore said they didnt think 
it was fair. In summary, they said their alerts service isnt the only way they notify customers 
about any changes to their report. And that credit reports have a changes section which is 
updated as soon as anything changes in a customers report, regardless of a customers 
notification settings. ClearScore also confirmed they dont advertise alerts as a benefit of the 
Protect Plus product. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ClearScores website confirms Protect Plus is a premium version of ClearScores standard 
service and that a customer will benefit from certain features in addition to all the features 
ClearScores standard service provides (which is free of charge). 
Mr A complains the Protect Plus didnt prevent him from being a victim of fraud. Having 
looked through the terms and conditions of this product, I havent seen anything to suggest 
its designed to prevent someone from being a victim of fraud. And I also havent seen 
anything to suggest it was advertised as being able to prevent someone becoming a fraud 
victim completely. Instead, I think the terms and benefits of this product indicate that its 
intended to add an extra layer of protection against fraud rather than being a fraud 
prevention service. So, I dont think I can say the product was misrepresented to Mr A on 
this basis.
Mr A says he didnt receive any notifications when the fraudulent accounts were taken out. 
Mr A also said there were two soft searches and one hard search carried out on his credit 
report and he wasnt alerted to this. ClearScore have said they dont advertise alerts as a 
benefit of Protect Plus.  
Amongst other benefits, I can see one of the benefits of Protect Plus is that itll carry out 
daily cyber checks  this is where scans of the dark web for Mr As personal email 
address(es) are carried out and any breaches would be flagged to Mr A. Another benefit of 
this product is that it also scans the dark web for any leaked personal information that may 
be shared for fraudsters to use. Its not clear to me exactly what details of Mr As were used 
in the three fraudulent accounts he has told us about. Based on what Mr A initially told us, it 
seems the fraudster may not have used Mr As email address to take out the accounts as 
hes said its unlikely a fraudster would use his actual email address when trying to defraud 
him. But then again, even if the fraudster did use Mr As email address, its not clear how the 
fraudster was able to obtain it. In any case, it seems likely the Protect Plus would have only 
notified Mr A if his details were shared on the dark web  but I havent got any evidence to 
suggest this was the case. 
In addition to this, part of the Protect Plus benefits explain that Mr As credit report would be 
monitored on a daily basis for any indication of fraud. But it doesnt go on to then say Mr A 
would be notified or sent an alert if there was an indication of fraud. So, I dont think 
ClearScore advertise receiving alerts as part of the Protect Plus product if there was an 
indication of fraud.
However, as previously explained, taking out the Protect Plus product meant Mr A had those 
benefits in addition to the standard benefits provided by ClearScore  which are benefits a 
customer gets when signing up, for free, with ClearScore. Under these standard benefits, 
ClearScore have confirmed that they would notify a customer of changes to their credit 
report (this is dependent on their communication preferences). ClearScore have provided a 
screenshot which shows a hard search was recorded on Mr As credit file on 7 May 2021 at 
around 5am  which seems likely to be one of the fraudulent accounts Mr A has told us 
about. And ClearScore have also provided a screenshot to show Mr A clicked on this change 
on the same day at around 3pm. However, ClearScore cant confirm what Mr As 
communication preferences were set to in May 2021 and whether Mr A was sent a 
notification of the change in his credit report on this occasion. Nonetheless, ClearScore said 
even if Mr A didnt receive a notification like he wanted, he would have seen this search 
when checking the changes section on his credit report. 
I understand ClearScores point but they havent provided any evidence to show Mr A 
unsubscribed from receiving alerts at the time there was a change made to his credit report 
in May 2021. Additionally, I find Mr As testimony to be persuasive in that he didnt receive 
notification of changes to his credit report in this instance. As the Protect Plus included benefits in addition to the standard ones, I think its reasonable to believe that all of the 
standard benefits would perform as expected. However, it doesnt seem Mr A received an 
alert for at least the hard search that was carried out on his credit report. Im not persuaded 
Mr A had full use of the benefits on this occasion, so I agree with our Investigator that I think 
the fairest way to compensate Mr A is to reimburse him half of the Protect Plus fee - for 
ease, I require ClearScore to pay Mr A £25.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and require ClearScore Technology 
Limited trading as ClearScore to pay Mr A £25.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman