DRN-3652696
The complaint
Ms C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) failed to properly and promptly process a 
transfer of title in relation to a commercial mortgage she held. She would like it to cover her 
financial losses that resulted from the delay.
What happened
Prior to May 2018, Ms C contacted BoS to initiate a transfer of title as described above. 
Following extensive delays, the transaction was concluded in November 2021.
Ms C said that BoS had effectively caused these delays and complained at first in November 
2019. It accepted that it had made mistakes, and offered some compensation in respect of 
additional legal fees Ms C had incurred. However, it still took another two years to conclude 
the transfer, and Ms C came to this service for help.
Ultimately, the investigator thought that BoS hadnt acted fairly and reasonably and directed 
that it should pay additional costs to Ms C. Ms C didnt accept that the investigators 
recommendation was fair, as she believed her losses caused by BoS were far greater than 
had been identified, including the interest on a residential mortgage that she had been 
unable to redeem as a result of the outstanding transaction. So she asked that her case be 
passed to an Ombudsman.
Following the gathering of more evidence, I concluded that a telephone hearing would be the 
best way to progress and conclude this case. However, BoS refused to participate. I 
therefore took oral evidence from Ms C in early December 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint, and will explain why. I should first say that where 
matters are in dispute, as they are here, I have to determine what I think is most likely to 
have happened, on the balance of probabilities.
BoS has accepted it made mistakes, and I accept that the extreme delays in this transaction 
are not solely its fault. This case is essentially about determining fair redress, which is not 
straightforward due to inevitable gaps in information about exactly what was happening 
during the entire timeframe. To determine fair redress, there are three outstanding issues to 
be resolved, which I will deal with in turn.
When did Ms C initiate this transaction with BoS?
Perhaps in part due to the considerable length of time that has passed since, it hasnt been 
straightforward to establish this fact. Documentary evidence provided by BoS indicated 
that this may have been in the Summer of 2018. However, documentary evidence provided 
by Ms C (namely an email from a BoS member of staff) confirms that she had initiated this 
transaction before May 2018. Therefore I cannot place full weight on BoS documentary 
submissions on this point, as they are clearly incorrect.
Oral evidence given by Ms C about the legal advice she had received at different points, 
and some significant personal circumstances have persuaded me that it is more likely than 
not that she first contacted BoS to initiate this transaction in March 2017. BoS was 
reminded that by refusing to participate in the telephone hearing, it was foregoing its 
opportunity to submit further evidence, or to challenge evidence given by Ms C.
How long should this transaction have taken to complete?
Both parties accept that this transaction was not an entirely typical one, with complicating 
factors mostly due to the country of the United Kingdom in which the property in question 
was located.
BoS suggests that a reasonable timeframe for completion of this transaction would have 
been three to nine months. Ms C suggested three months, noting that a more typical 
transfer ought to have been completed in six weeks.
Ultimately, I have been persuaded that three months would have been a reasonable 
timeframe for completion, on the basis of evidence offered by Ms C that at least two 
different members of BoS staff had advised that timescale to her. This evidence was both 
oral and suggested in an email from 2018. Again, BoS was reminded that by refusing to 
participate in the telephone hearing, it was foregoing its opportunity to submit further 
evidence, or to challenge evidence given by Ms C.
I therefore find that it would have been reasonable for this transaction to have been 
concluded in June 2017.
What proportion of Ms Cs financial losses should fairly be borne by BoS?
This question is not straightforward, and Ms C herself accepts that BoS has not been 
responsible for 100% of the delays since she initiated this transfer in March 2017.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service, and it is my 
statutory role to reach what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome in each case I 
review. On that basis, the answer to this question will not be a forensic calculation of how 
much of each months delay was BoS fault. That is all but impossible and very much not 
within this Services remit.
As mentioned previously, the documentary record for the first part of the timeframe in 
consideration in this case is thin. BoS has provided a summary of case notes from July 
2018 which suggest that it was responsible for some delays, and other parties responsible 
for others. Ms C has provided copies of some emails which present a similar, if incomplete, 
picture.
However, what is clear is that when Ms C first raised a complaint in November 2019, BoS 
accepted it had made errors, and, as reiterated in an email by a BoS Customer Services 
Manager in October 2021, committed to cover [Ms Cs] costs from that point onward. 
BoS was acutely aware of the situation, which even it accepts had by that stage been 
going on for well over a year. It is also clear that Ms C regularly contacted BoS by phone 
after November 2019 in a desperate attempt to achieve some progress. BoS appears to 
have effectively done nothing for an extended period, despite repeated contact, and to 
have all but stonewalled Ms C.I have therefore concluded that the fairest answer to this question which is supported by 
the available evidence has two parts. Namely that BoS should cover 50% of Ms Cs losses 
between June 2017 (when the transaction ought to have concluded) and November 2019, 
and 100% of her losses between December 2019 and transaction conclusion in November 
2021.
Again, BoS was reminded that by refusing to participate in the telephone hearing, it was 
foregoing its opportunity to submit further evidence on this point, or to challenge evidence 
given by Ms C.
Putting things right
I have carefully considered what actually constitute financial losses for Ms C over this 
timeframe, and conclude that there are two key components.
Firstly, legal fees. Ms C would, of course, always have had to meet legal fees herself to deal 
with the transfer. However, those fees ought to have ended in June 2017.
Secondly, there is the matter of residential mortgage interest. Ms C has provided 
documentary evidence to confirm that she was in a financial position to settle a residential 
mortgage she held with a different lender in June 2017, without further borrowing. This 
evidence has previously been discussed with BoS. BoS also accepts that it was the delay in 
concluding this transfer of title that prevented her from redeeming that residential mortgage, 
which is what she did as soon as the transfer was complete. Therefore, I am satisfied that 
interest paid on that mortgage since June 2017 is also a direct financial loss for Ms C.
In order to put things right for Ms C, BoS must do the following:
A) Calculate 50% of Ms Cs legal fees charged between July 2017 and November 2019.
B) Calculate 100% of Ms Cs legal fees charged from December 2019 to transfer 
conclusion in November 2021.
C) Calculate 50% of the interest Ms C paid on her residential mortgage between July 
2017 and November 2019.
D) Calculate 100% of the interest Ms C paid on her residential mortgage between July 
2017 and November 2019.
E) Deduct any interim compensation payments from the total of A) to D)
F) Pay that figure (E) to Ms C.
G) Add 8% simple interest* to the payments in A) to D) that Ms C has already made 
from the date any payment was made by her to the date of settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BoS to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Ms C a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she ask for one.
We will supply BoS with all the necessary evidence of these amounts in order to enable its 
calculations.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc to put 
things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman