DRN-3012388
The complaint
Mr T says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
The policy started in 1996, several days after Mr T took out a credit card. Barclays says the 
PPI was taken out during a phone conversation, though Mr t doesnt accept this.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case. Ive also considered what Mr T has said.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I will now explain my reasons.
Mr T has said that he didnt choose to take out the PPI at the time of completing the credit 
card application form and he wouldnt have consented to taking it out over the phone.
The main problem I have is the lack of evidence about something that happened over 24 
years ago.  It wouldnt be fair for me to conclude the PPI was added without consent, unless 
there was reasonable supporting evidence of this. Where someone has said another person 
or organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the 
allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make 
someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time 
ago. 
Not surprisingly, Barclays hasnt been able to provide a call recording or call script, and it 
doesnt know whether it called Mr T or Mr T called in. So, I dont know what was said to Mr T 
when the policy was sold. But Barclays has provided us with a copy of Mr Ts signed credit 
card application form which was completed and signed in October 1996. On the application 
form I can see that Mr T had the option of selecting Yes or No to the PPI. At the time, 
Mr T didnt tick either box. But I think its more likely than not that hed have been aware it 
was up to him to decide whether or not he wanted to have PPI. 
It was very common for customers to agree to PPI during a phone call  often when going 
through the final stages of confirming they had received the credit card and were activating 
it. The credit card company would  train its staff to mention PPI and set out its features, and 
ask if the customer now wanted to take the PPI. I think its reasonable for Barclays to 
conclude that, based on the gap between the credit card application and the start of the PPI, 
its likely this is what happened in this case. 
Because a call recording or call script isnt available, I have to base my findings on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened in the circumstances. In order to uphold this 
complaint, Id need to see persuasive evidence to show that Barclays didnt give Mr T a 
choice when it came to the PPI. Ive thought carefully about what Mr T has said. But, taking 
into account the time thats passed and the limited information provided by both parties, I 
cant assume that something went wrong when theres no persuasive evidence to suggest 
that something did.
The charges for PPI would have appeared on Mr Ts credit card statements. I note Mr T has 
said in recent correspondence that he used to pay his credit card balance in a branch, and 
he doesnt recall receiving any statements, despite raising this as a complaint. At the time, 
credit card statements were generally only sent by post and I think its likely Mr T would have 
needed a copy of a statement in order to make his payments in a branch. But even if Im 
persuaded Mr T didnt receive some of his credit card statements through the post, I would 
have expected him to review the transactions and query anything he wasnt sure about once 
he was aware of his outstanding balance. 
So, considering everything, I think its more likely than not that Mr T was aware the policy 
was optional and that he chose to take it at the time, even if now not surprisingly he doesnt 
remember the detail of everything that happened.
I think the evidence is unclear about whether Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr T  in 
the sense of telling him it had assessed his individual circumstances and was saying this PPI 
suited his needs. If it did recommend the PPI, we would hold Barclays to a higher standard 
in that any such recommendation would need to be a suitable one. 
But, having looked at Mr Ts circumstances, I think that it was suitable for his needs. He was 
eligible for the cover and I cant see that he would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr T says he would have been entitled to between 6 and 12 months sick pay from his 
employer if he was too ill to work. Hes also told us he had savings of approximately £800 
and his family would have helped him with his repayments if needed.
Having thought about what Mr T has told us about his sick pay, I dont think this means the 
PPI wouldnt have been useful for him. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mr T would have received from his employer and would have 
potentially paid out for longer than he would have received full pay  for up to 12 months. 
The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mr T was ever made redundant for up to 12 
months.
Ive thought about what Mr T has said he had in savings. But I think the PPI would still have 
been useful to him. I say this because it would have enabled Mr T to use his savings to 
cover any other financial commitments he may have had at what could have been a difficult 
time.
Ive also considered what Mr T has said about being able to rely on his family to help him 
with his repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt useful for him. While 
Mr Ts family may have wanted to help, their financial situation could change, so this help 
couldnt always be relied on. I also dont think Ive seen enough to suggest the PPI wasnt 
affordable for him at the time.
So, overall, I dont see that it would have been wrong for Barclays to have recommended 
this PPI. It would then be for the customer to decide if they thought it was worth the cost.Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive explained above, Mr T doesnt appear to have been affected by any 
of the main things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about his 
circumstances it looks like the policy could have been useful to him. So I dont think better 
information would have stopped him buying it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman