DRN-2752745
The complaint
Miss E complains that Nationwide Building Society has not reimbursed the money she lost 
through what she now believes was a scam.
  
What happened
Miss Es complaint stems from two Faster Payments transfers she sent to a person 
advertising items for sale on a popular social media platform.
The first payment was for £20.50 on 23 September 2019, with a further payment of £20.80 
on 15 October. Miss E was paying for a number of small items which were to be sent to her 
in one delivery. She says she couldnt afford to send the full sum in a single payment so had 
arranged shed make the payment in two instalments. 
However, Miss E didnt receive the items. After providing a variety of excuses, the seller 
refused to either send the items or to refund Miss E, and ultimately blocked further contact. 
Miss E then reported the matter to Nationwide as being a scam.
Nationwide is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
However, the CRM Code does not apply to private civil disputes  such as situations where 
a consumer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but not received them. 
Nationwide notes that Miss E successfully purchased from the same seller in April 2019. It 
believes this was a legitimate supplier. Nationwide says Miss E has a civil dispute with the 
person shed paid, and she was not the victim of an APP scam. It does not consider the 
CRM Code should apply to her case and has declined to reimburse her.
Nationwide did however notify the sellers bank (the receiving bank) that Miss E had raised a 
scam claim. That bank investigated its customers account and what had happened in 
relation to Miss Es payments. No funds remained in the receiving account to be recovered. 
The receiving bank ultimately accepted a share of the blame for Miss Es loss and 
reimbursed 50% of her loss, £20.65.
Miss E remained out of pocket by the remaining £20.65. She asked this service to consider 
her complaint about Nationwide. 
Our investigator looked into things. She thought the balance of the evidence indicated the 
seller had never intended to fulfil the sale and that it was consistent with this having been a 
scam, rather than a dispute with a legitimate supplier. She therefore found Nationwide 
should have considered the claim under the CRM Code. The investigator went on to find that 
had Nationwide considered the matter under the CRM Code, none of the possible 
exceptions to reimbursement would have applied. So, she thought Nationwide ought to have 
refunded the balance of the money Miss E had lost.
 
Nationwide disagreed. It remains of the view that this was not a scam and that the CRM 
Code should not apply. The matter has been referred to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
The balance of the evidence supports the finding that this was an APP scam and the 
CRM Code is applicable.
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Nationwide should have refunded the money 
consumer lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances, Nationwide should now fairly and reasonably refund the 
outstanding sum Miss E lost.
The money was sent from Miss Es current account. It is not clear how she would 
have used the money if Nationwide had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Nationwide should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at the rate 
of 8% simple per year from 27 November 2019 (when it first declined to reimburse 
her) to the date of settlement.
I have carefully considered Nationwides representations about why Miss E is not entitled to 
be reimbursed here, and why the CRM Code is not applicable. Id firstly acknowledge that 
there is evidence here to suggest that this was a legitimate sale, as well as evidence to 
suggest it was not. 
Ive carefully considered all of this to determine which scenario I find most persuasive on a 
balance of probabilities. For me to consider this was likely a scam rather than a legitimate 
transaction Id need to be persuaded on balance that the seller had no intention of fulfilling 
the order and that this was simply an attempt to obtain money by deception.
While it appears that Miss E had previously used the same seller without incident, this does 
not lead me to automatically conclude that the seller was acting legitimately at the time of the 
transaction in question. Circumstances change, and a private individual selling items could 
conceivably change from acting in good faith to not. 
Indeed, it seems possible that some sellers might build a seemingly legitimate social media 
profile before using that reputation to defraud, perhaps for higher sums. I note that the total 
value of the alleged scam payments was approximately four times higher than the 
successfully concluded transaction Miss E made with the seller five months prior.
Overall, I dont find the previous interactions Miss E had with the seller are compelling 
evidence that the later sale must have been legitimate, or that there must not have been any 
intent to defraud.
I have taken account of Miss Es testimony about the actions and excuses of the seller. 
Considering these objectively, they do seem consistent with a seller acting dishonestly. On 
the face of it, it seems unlikely to me that a legitimate seller would, seemingly without any 
justification, refuse to either send the items ordered or offer a refund, then take the step of 
blocking any further contact. 
The receiving bank indicates that it took steps to investigate the scam report. As the seller 
was the customer of that bank, I consider it was best placed to assess whether its customer was acting legitimately or not. Nationwide would not have had ready access to the same 
level of information about that customer or the operation of the account; including whether 
other reports of fraud or scams had been received.
That bank ultimately treated the matter consistently with it having been a scam. That 
included accepting a share of liability consistent with certain of the requirements incumbent 
on a signatory of the CRM Code. In any event, if the bank did not find this to be a fraud or a 
scam it would have had no such liability to Miss E. 
No funds remained in the sellers account to be recovered. However, nothing Ive seen 
suggests that, in the event any funds had remained, the receiving bank wouldnt have taken 
the step of returning Miss Es funds to Nationwide. Overall, the actions of the receiving bank 
were consistent with it having reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud had 
been committed and that the evidence was sufficiently clear, relevant and rigorous to 
support that position.
Taking everything into consideration, I find the evidence on balance supports Miss Es 
contention that she was the victim of a scam here. I find the CRM Code is applicable to the 
two payments she sent.
Nationwide has not sought to rely on any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
specified in the CRM Code. But for the avoidance of doubt I do not consider it could fairly 
establish any of these exceptions in this case.
Specifically, in this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception 
were not met because:
The warnings Nationwide gave Miss E were not relevant to purchase scams (such as 
I am satisfied this was). Rather, these addressed invoice interception scams and safe 
account scams.
Miss E therefore did not act unreasonably in making these payments despite the 
warnings provided.
The recommendations in the warnings would not have had a material impact on 
preventing the fraud.
Im further satisfied that Miss E did not lack a reasonable basis of belief in making these 
payments. In particular, I note she had been convinced of the sellers legitimacy by her 
experience on a prior purchase, by having been shown images of the items purportedly for 
sale on this occasion, and through having discussed the sale with the seller. I havent seen 
anything here that I think ought to have caused her concern that this individual was not 
acting with a legitimate intent. 
Nor do I find there are any other applicable reasons why Miss E should not have been fully 
reimbursed by Nationwide under the CRM Code.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided that Miss E ought reasonably to have been fully 
refunded under the CRM Code. I therefore direct Nationwide Building Society to pay Miss E:
the outstanding balance of the money she lost as a result of this scam. It should do 
so within 28 days of receiving notification of Miss Es acceptance of my final 
decision; plus,interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from 27 November 2019 to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Es complaint about Nationwide Building Society, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman