DRN-1512496
 
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) handled his claim and with 
the service he received.
Mr Ps main complaint points are:
AXA booked an appointment with a specialist hed seen previously;
When Mr P called the specialists office, they said an appointment hadnt been 
booked;
AXA couldnt cancel the appointment but asked Mr P to do this; and
Mr P didnt get an update on the progress of the appointment and he had to call 
to get the update.
What happened
Mr P had a private medical insurance policy with AXA. 
He called AXA on 7 January 2019 as he wasnt feeling well. He said he was suffering from 
gastro symptoms and had seen his GP whod referred him to a gastroenterologist. The AXA 
advisor said the specialist Mr P was seeing wasnt on their list but she could find him a 
different one. Mr P asked the advisor to find one in his home town and he would be able to 
make the appointment any time within the next two weeks. 
The advisor said AXAs fast track team would be in touch by the end of the following day 
and theyll provide confirmation of the appointment. Authorisation for an initial consultation, 
diagnostics and a follow-up consultation was provided to Mr P during the call. The advisor 
asked if there was any preference on whether Mr P saw a male or female doctor and he 
confirmed he didnt have a preference. 
On the morning of 8 January, the fast track team booked an appointment with a consultant 
for 16 January at 3pm.
Mr P called AXA on 8 January (later in the day) to inform it that his own specialist didnt want 
him to see anyone else and wanted to cancel the appointment. The advisor confirmed an 
appointment had been booked for 16 January 2019 and if wanted to cancel, he would have 
to call the specialist directly. Mr P confirmed he wasnt happy as the advisor on 7 January 
also hadnt asked him whether he preferred a male or female doctor.
On 29 January 2019, Mr P called to confirm he wouldnt be renewing his policy due to the 
cost and the service hed received had been poor. He said he wanted to make an official 
complaint. Mr P said he wanted the premiums hed paid returned to him as the policy hadnt 
been of any use to him. 
A further call took place between AXA and Mr P on 30 January 2019 and while the complaint 
wasnt resolved, the advisor agreed to send Mr P call recordings and transcripts in large font. 
On 2 April 2019, AXA issued its final response to Mr Ps complaint. It said it had followed the 
process of handling the calls and booking the appointment and that was in line with the 
terms and conditions of the membership. As no errors were made, AXA said it wouldnt 
refund any premiums to Mr P. 
Mr P brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it. She thought AXA 
had followed the process and that was in line with the terms and conditions of the plan. She 
didnt think AXA needed to do anything further. 
Unhappy with the investigator, Mr P asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide is whether AXA handled the claim appropriately and whether 
the service Mr P received was poor.
The main evidence which relates to this complaint are the call recordings provided by AXA. 
Ive listened to those call recordings that took place between AXA and Mr P. Having listened 
to them, Im not persuaded that the claim was handled inappropriately or that Mr P had 
received poor service. Ill explain why below.
AXA booked an appointment with a specialist Mr P had seen previously
On the telephone call of 7 January 2019, Mr P hadnt asked AXA to specifically not book an 
appointment with the specialist hed seen previously. There was no mention of this on the 
call. I cant see how AXA wouldve known therefore not to book the appointment with that 
same specialist. As such, Im not persuaded AXA did anything wrong here.
When Mr P called the specialists office, they said an appointment hadnt been booked
Mr P says he called that specialists office and the secretary said an appointment hadnt 
been booked. I appreciate this must have been frustrating for Mr P for having to call the 
office and then finding out there was no appointment booked. However, AXA has said 
the appointment was booked online and as such there might not have been enough of a 
time gap between booking the appointment and the specialists secretary receiving 
confirmation of it. As the appointment was booked online, within the timeframe it was 
required to do so, I dont think AXA did anything it shouldnt have. But I acknowledge the 
frustration Mr P must have felt.
AXA couldnt cancel the appointment but asked Mr P to do this
My understanding is that AXA could book the appointment on behalf of Mr P. But it 
couldnt cancel or amend the appointment on his behalf. This procedure is put in place 
for the protection of Mr P, under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). I 
appreciate Mr P wouldve felt inconvenienced by this, but by not following this, AXA 
would be in breach of the regulations. Therefore, I dont think it was inappropriate for 
AXA to request Mr P to cancel the appointment.
Mr P didnt get an update on the progress of the appointment and he had to call to get 
the update
Mr P called AXA on 7 January 2019 to start the claim process and received authorisation for 
the appointment on the call. The advisor said the fast track team would make an 
appointment and would confirm to Mr P by the end of the following day (8 January). Mr P 
called on the morning of the following day and was informed an appointment had been booked. However, he had called with the intention of asking AXA not to go ahead. Once the 
advisor said the booking had been made, Mr P asked him to cancel it.
I appreciate that Mr P says he had to call for the update. However, had he not called on the 
morning of 8 January 2019, its likely AXA would have updated him later in the day on the 
progress of the claim. As such, I dont think AXA did anything wrong in giving Mr P an 
update when he called.
Conclusion
Overall, in all the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded AXA handled the claim 
inappropriately or that Mr P received poor service in doing so. I dont think AXA needs to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.  
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman