DRN-1419985
Complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) sold by Lloyds Bank 
plc, trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G). Mrs F says this cover was mis-
sold to her. For consistency Ill refer to C&G in my decision.
Background
These events took place a long time ago and relate to two PPI policies that were sold 
alongside mortgages. Mrs F took out an initial C&G mortgage in 2003. She borrowed more 
money in 2004.
One of our adjudicators looked into this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But 
Mrs F disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I dont disbelieve that Mrs F is giving her honest recollection 
when she says she doesnt remember wanting or agreeing to the PPI. However, the 
evidence that she did agree to buy a PPI policy (twice) is strong in my view.
My experience from the C&G mortgage sales Ive seen from around the time period in 
question is that consumers were usually asked to choose whether or not they wanted PPI on 
their mortgage when they completed their mortgage application form. Another step was then 
usually required, in the form of a separate PPI application. This went in to more detail about 
the type of protection they wanted and who should be covered.
For Mrs Fs 2003 mortgage application I see the relevant box for PPI was ticked on her 
application form. A C&G PPI Plus Proposal Form was also filled out and she signed a direct 
debit instruction authorising the monthly premium to be taken from her bank account. So I 
think this represents solid evidence she agreed to the cover.
Generally speaking, all the paperwork from the sale(s) that Ive seen in this case also 
suggests there was a discussion about this type of cover because when Mrs F took out more 
borrowing, in 2004, she followed the same process, basically agreeing to have PPI in the 
same manner and authorising the new premium to be taken from her current account. Again, 
when considered independently, this is very persuasive evidence that she consented to PPI. 
Mrs F tells us she didnt consent, and says the forms must have been manipulated to show 
otherwise. Of course, to agree with her, Id need to think that this happened twice, on 
occasions a year apart. I consider that unlikely given all the other available evidence.Its not disputed that the PPI was recommended each time to Mrs F as part of advised 
sales. This means C&G had a duty to ensure the PPI was suitable for her.  I think it was.
Mrs F was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to 
see in these types of policy. The cost of the PPI also seems affordable on each occasion, 
given the protection the policies offered her. 
To help demonstrate that she didnt need PPI, Mrs F told us she already had some sickness 
protection through her job and that a family member would have always stepped in to help if 
needed. 
I understand the points being made, but Im afraid these things dont necessarily mean the 
PPI wasnt of use. The mortgage(s) were secured against her home and so the 
consequences of not being able to make the repayments could have been serious. The 
cover also lasted much longer than her work-related benefits - in the event of a successful 
claim, the PPI would have paid out a monthly sum for up to 12 months. And although Im 
sure her family would have intended to help as much as possible, I dont think committing 
help over the term of a mortgage is a credible alternative to insurance. I therefore dont think 
C&G recommending PPI was unreasonable and I think the cover was suitable for Mrs F.
C&G also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I obviously cant 
confirm what would have been said to Mrs F and its possible C&G could have done a better 
job in explaining things. But from what Ive seen, I think the disclosure of information looks 
quite comprehensive on each of the two occasions she was sold PPI. Its clear she met with 
a mortgage adviser each time and the records show they assessed her financial situation. 
I also think its highly likely Mrs F would have known the costs of the PPI on each occasion. 
Finally, I also think its likely shed have been given accompanying documents explaining the 
terms. So I think she had enough information on which to make an informed choice about 
what she wanted to do. So I dont think the policies were mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint. And I dont direct Lloyds 
Bank plc, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester, to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
 
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman