DRN-3753263
The complaint
Mrs and Mr J had buildings and contents insurance with esure Insurance Limited (esure). 
They complain about how esure dealt with a number of claims for damage to their garden 
wall and hedge. References to esure include other organisations and individuals acting on its 
behalf.
What happened
Over a period of about 18 months there were four separate incidents where cars crashed 
into Mrs and Mr Js garden wall, fence and hedge, causing damage in a different place each 
time. Each time they claimed on their home insurance. Mrs and Mr J were unhappy with the 
settlement figures offered by esure on the claims, which they said werent enough to cover 
the costs of repairing the damage. They provided estimates from their builder. Mrs and Mr J 
were also unhappy that esure wouldnt agree to cover the costs of maintaining the newly 
planted hedge so that it would be returned to what it had been.
Mrs and Mr J say at one point there were four different claim handlers dealing with the 
different claims, and they would call Mr J when he was at work and didnt have the 
necessary paperwork with him. They say things improved when esure agreed to have one 
claim handler and to communicate by email, but errors were still made.
Mrs and Mr J complained to esure. Esure accepted that there had been shortfalls in its 
service including some delay, and paid Mrs and Mr J £150 to say sorry.
Esure paid the first claim based on Mrs and Mr Js own builders estimate. There was no 
payment for the ongoing maintenance of the hedge. Mrs and Mr J provided estimates for the 
next three claims but esure said these were too high. Esure offered to appoint contractors to 
carry out the work. Esure said if Mrs and Mr J didnt want its contractors to do the work, it 
could pay them what the contractor would have charged. However there were then delays in 
the contractors arranging with Mr J a suitable time to visit to assess the work needed.
As the claims were still not settled to Mrs and Mr Js satisfaction, they complained to this 
service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part and suggested esure and Mrs and Mr J 
settle the claims by having the contractor visit to produce an accurate scope of work and 
quote, including work needed to the hedge.
Mrs and Mr J say they were not keen for esure to use its own contractors to do the work as 
they werent happy not knowing who would be working at their property. They say they 
looked up one of the suggested contractors online and found very bad reviews. However 
they say esure still insisted this contractor quote for the work. Mrs and Mr J say this 
contractor wouldnt agree to come and do the site visit in the evening or at weekends when 
Mr J was at home, so there was a further delay.
Our investigator suggested that, as esure had accepted Mrs and Mr Js own builders quote 
for the first claim, it should accept their quotes for the subsequent three claims. Esure and 
Mrs and Mr J agreed to this.
However esure then said the hedge was covered by Mrs and Mr Js contents insurance 
policy not their buildings insurance, and the limit on their contents insurance meant the 
claims for the hedge couldnt be paid in full. Mrs and Mr J and our investigator pointed out to 
esure that according to the terms of the policy, the hedge was covered by the buildings 
insurance and so the claims for it should be paid in full. It did appear to take a little while for 
esure to accept this.
After esure agreed to accept Mrs and Mr Js quotes for the work, there were further delays. 
Mrs and Mr J had to get new up to date quotes for the work, and had difficulty contacting the 
relevant people at esure to find out what was happening, and particularly to get a breakdown 
of esures proposed settlement.
Mrs and Mr J also asked esure about recovering the excess on each claim from the insurers 
of the drivers that caused the damage, as they had the details of all the cars. Esure said it 
was only looking to recover the excess from one of the incidents. Mrs and Mr J complained 
to esure about this. This doesnt form part of Mrs and Mr Js complaint to this service, but if it 
is not resolved it is open to them to make a new complaint. 
Mrs and Mr J also complained to esure about the further communication issues, including 
the difficulties getting the settlement breakdown. Esure paid Mr and Mrs J a further £100 to 
say sorry for the trouble and upset caused.
Our investigator said he didnt think esure should have to pay for the ongoing maintenance 
of the hedge as the policy wasnt there to cover this. Mrs and Mr J werent happy so their 
complaint has been passed to me. Mrs and Mr J want their home returned to its previous 
condition and they want esure to cover the full cost of this. They have also asked whether 
they can be compensated for their distress and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Mrs and Mr Js complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
On 8 September I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said:
I intend to uphold Mrs and Mr Js complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Mrs and Mr J have spent a considerable amount of time and effort in dealing with these 
claims. They say this has impacted on Mrs Js health, and they have both been very 
distressed by the condition of the wall and hedge around their home. Mrs and Mr J say they 
were told to make their property safe but not clear anything away until the claims were 
settled. So there were piles of bricks from the wall left in their garden. Some of the wall was 
replaced with chipboard panels to secure the garden. Ive seen photos of the front of the 
house and I can see how Mrs and Mr J would be upset by its unsightly appearance over an 
extended period.
This should have been a straightforward situation and the four claims should have been 
settled quickly. Instead the situation has been ongoing for some four years. So I think esure 
should further compensate Mrs and Mr J for their distress and inconvenience.
With regard to the maintenance of the hedge, Mrs and Mr J say there is a British Standard 
which states that new hedges should be watered regularly throughout the growing season 
for the first three years. They say this is a cost of time and water they wouldnt have incurred if the hedges hadnt been damaged. Mrs and Mr J have provided some further information 
about this, but it relates to trees, which I dont think is directly relevant to establishing a new 
hedge.
My role is to consider whether esure have dealt with Mrs and Mr Js claims in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of their policy and in a fair and reasonable way. I think any 
garden hedge needs maintenance and Im not persuaded that maintenance connected with 
establishing a new hedge is covered by the terms and conditions of Mrs and Mr Js 
insurance policy. So my provisional view is that it was fair and reasonable for esure to refuse 
to pay for the ongoing maintenance of the hedge.
Mrs and Mr J said they would obtain a report from an arborist about maintenance for the new 
hedge, and also write a letter outlining all their complaints and concerns. They asked for 
extra time to do this, which weve given them. However we havent received the letter or 
report. If Mrs and Mr J have any further information Id ask that they send it now and Ill 
consider it.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above I intend to uphold Mrs and Mr Js complaint in part. I intend to 
require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mrs and Mr J a further £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delays, errors and communication issues in settling their 
claims.
Responses to my provisional decision
Esure didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mrs and Mr J responded reiterating the points theyve made throughout their complaint.  
They didnt provide an arborist report or any other expert evidence.
I have very carefully considered Mrs and Mr Js comments. However based on the evidence 
I dont think theres any reason to change my provisional decision.
So I still think it was fair and reasonable for esure to refuse to pay for the ongoing 
maintenance of the hedge. However I am still of the view that esure should compensate Mrs 
and Mr J for their distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Mrs and Mr Js complaint in part. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs and Mr J a further £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delays, errors and communication issues in settling their claims.
Esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs and Mr J accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. If esure Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs and Mr J how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mrs and Mr J a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman