DRN-1167790
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about a repayment plan Mr C agreed with Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax). He says he wasnt told this would affect his credit file or that his 
overdraft would be permanently reduced.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C held a joint current account with an overdraft facility. In November 2018 Mr C 
called Halifax to let them know that he was going to start struggling with the daily fees so 
wanted to know what they could do to help.
As a result of that call Halifax entered into a repayment plan with Mr C for three months. It 
was agreed that he would pay £100 per month and the overdraft limit would be gradually 
reduced. Halifax agreed to freeze charges throughout this time.
Mr C called Halifax to cancel the plan and was told that by doing this, his temporary 
overdraft limit would be removed. Mr C says he wasnt aware that his overdraft limit had 
been temporary and would like the original overdraft limit reinstated. He has also said that he 
wasnt told the repayment plan would be recorded on his credit file. He says that if he had 
been told about these issues, he wouldnt have entered into a repayment plan.
Halifax isnt able to find the call where the repayment plan was agreed but it accepts that 
Mr C wasnt given the correct information. It explained that it isnt able to reinstate the 
overdraft limit as Mr and Mrs C will need to reapply for this. And it says that the information it 
has reported to the credit reference agencies is correct so it cant change it. But it accepts 
that Mr C was provided incorrect information and offered Mr and Mrs C £150 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience this caused.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said that Halifax 
was correct to report the repayment arrangement to the credit reference agencies. And she 
said that Halifax acted reasonably in removing Mr Cs permanent overdraft facility when it 
was informed of financial difficulties. She did think that Halifax had provided incorrect 
information about the impact of the repayment plan but thought that £150 was fair 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused. She also said that without 
evidence of what Mr C would have done if he hadnt agreed to the repayment plan, she 
didnt think it was likely he wouldve done anything differently.
Mr C didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for the same 
reasons.Mr C says he wasnt given the correct information about the repayment plan he was entering 
into  and Halifax doesnt dispute this. But I have to consider whether it would have made a 
difference if he had been given the correct information.
Mr C hasnt provided this service with any information or evidence to show that he would 
have done something differently if he had been told that this repayment plan would cause his 
overdraft limit to be removed and that it would be recorded on his credit file. Mr C called 
Halifax as he didnt think hed be able to afford the charges being added to the account so I 
think its likely he was experiencing financial difficulties. So based on the information Ive 
seen, I think its likely Mr C still wouldve entered into the repayment plan if he had been 
given the correct information as I havent seen that he had any alternative.
Mr C would like his permanent overdraft limit reinstated but Halifax made the decision to 
remove it when he let it know he was experiencing financial difficulties. And it has said that 
he is now able to apply for an overdraft on the account. Halifax will need to consider Mr Cs 
finances and current situation before offering him a lending facility again so I think Halifaxs 
request that he reapply for an overdraft is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C has also said that he doesnt think the repayment plan should be recorded on his credit 
file. But any information Halifax provides to the credit reference agencies needs to be an 
accurate reflection of the status of the account. And as there was an agreed repayment plan 
on the account, I think its right that Halifax reports this to the credit reference agencies.
But Halifax has accepted that it made a mistake and that Mr C wasnt given all the 
information he shouldve been given when he first set up the repayment plan. I think this has 
caused some distress and inconvenience to Mr C as he wasnt expecting his credit file to be 
impacted as a result of this plan. And he hadnt expected that he would need to reapply for 
an overdraft. So I do think Halifaxs actions have caused Mr C some distress and 
inconvenience. And overall, I think the £150 compensation offered to Mr C for this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) should pay Mr and Mrs C the compensation it has 
previously offered if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman