DRN-3098175
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Amtrust Europe Limited wont consider her claim under her building
warranty as it says she isnt an eligible policyholder under the terms of the warranty. 
What happened
Mrs A completed the purchase of her property in October 2015, and the warranty started at
the same time. In March 2020 Mrs A made a claim under the warranty. Following leaking
around her patio door and windows when it rained, she had had a builder inspect who
advised her it was a structural issue.
Amtrust instructed a company, M, to manage the claim. After an initial inspection M reported
back to Amtrust that Mrs A wasnt an eligible policyholder under the terms of the warranty. It
also said that if the damage was due to storm it wouldnt be covered.
Ms reasons for saying Mrs A wasnt eligible were because her husband, Mr A was an
employee, then became a director of the builder (a limited company) which constructed the
property. It said that as a relative of the builder and of someone with an interest in the
construction or sale of the property, she was excluded by the definition of policyholder in the
warranty.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Amtrust had acted reasonably. Mrs A 
disagreed, pointing out that she had bought the property off plan long before any builder had 
been appointed, and that her husband hadnt been made director until April 2015 after she 
had moved into the property. Although, as Ive said, the purchase wasnt finalised until 
October 2015 and the warranty started then. She also said the policy term wasnt clear
 a limited company cant have relatives.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that Mrs A was a policyholder under 
the terms of the warranty and entitled to have her claim considered by Amtrust. 
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
The definition of Policyholder in the warranty is:
For Section 3.1: A third party having paid a Registration Fee/and/or Deposit for the
Housing Unit to the Developer. For Sections 3.2, 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5: The owner acquiring a
freehold or leasehold interest, or their successors in title, or any mortgagee in possession or
lessor excluding the Developer, Builder, any relatives or associated companies or anyone
having an interest in the construction or sale of the Housing Unit. (my underlining).
Sections 3.2-3.5 generally refer to claims in the defects insurance period of the warranty
(years 3 to 10). Firstly I think factually the company that Mr A worked for, then became a
director of, was the builder of the property. It doesnt matter in my view when it was decided
who the building contract would be awarded to.
However the claim concerns Mrs A and whether her relationship to Mr A excludes her from
benefitting under the terms of the warranty. I think Mrs A makes a good point  the builder
here is a limited company and as such cant have relatives. The term doesnt say relatives
of directors or employees. Secondly it is said that Mr A as a director of the company/builder
at the time of commencement of the warranty had an interest in the construction or sale of
the Housing Unit. Mr A is one of a number of directors of the company, but I dont think its
been shown that he has an interest in the way described in the warranty. He may have been
paid a salary but Ive not seen any information that suggests he has a direct interest in the
profits and/or assets of the company.
In any event Mr As interest is irrelevant. The second part of the exclusion underlined above
doesnt refer to relatives or associated companies. I think the natural way to read it is that
only the first part applies to relatives/associated companies of the builder/ developer. And in
this case there are no such relatives/associated companies.
So I think that Mrs A is a policyholder under the terms of the warranty and shes entitled to
have her claim considered by Amtrust. As it appears to be damage to the waterproofing
around the window this seems unlikely to be storm damage. However Amtrust will have to
consider the claim to determine how it is to be resolved.
As both parties accepted my provisional findings, I have no further comment to make. My 
provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to acknowledge that Mrs A is an 
eligible policyholder under the warranty and to consider the claim.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman