DRN-3761994
The complaint
Ms S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) hasnt reimbursed the money she 
lost when she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry that Ms S has been the victim of a cruel scam, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that the funds were ultimately lost to a scam. Its also not in dispute 
that Ms S authorised the payments from her Barclays debit card account, albeit not 
realising she was being scammed. So, the starting position  in line with the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017  is that shes liable for the transactions.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id 
expect Barclays to have systems in place to monitor for indications of fraud. In some 
circumstances, when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to make additional checks 
before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent 
loss, it might be fair to hold Barclays liable. 
Ive considered whether Barclays ought to have made additional checks on the 
disputed payments. And I dont think it ought to have. I say this because all of the 
payments were made to one of two recipients  both legitimate cryptocurrency 
providers. 
The payments were relatively small initially, ranging from £85 to £1,100. By the time 
the largest payment  around £3,025  was made, it appears that Ms S had already 
made eleven payments, so a pattern of spending on cryptocurrency had emerged. I 
note this looks to have been made on the same day as four other payments, and 
these totalled around £3,300. But, while Im not saying this is a low amount, this total 
figure isnt a sum which Id consider to be significantly unusual or out of character, 
especially when considered alongside the pattern of spending. And the same applies 
to the final payment of around £2,280 which further adds to the pattern of spending, 
so wouldnt have appeared to be unusual or out of character by this point. 
So, I dont think Barclays ought to have made additional checks on these payments. 
And this is because I cant fairly say the payments should have triggered Barclays 
fraud alert systems, based on the amounts and the recipients.
As Ive mentioned above, the payments were made to two legitimate cryptocurrency 
providers. So, there wasnt anything available at the time, or even now, about these 
merchants from external organisations that publish official warnings about merchants 
operating in the UK and abroad that should have alerted Barclays to a potential 
issue. And while there was another company involved, that Ms S says the payments 
were ultimately going to, Barclays didnt have any indication of this  it only knew of 
the payments to the legitimate providers.
I note that Barclays did make attempts to recover some of the funds through 
chargebacks, and a proportion of the loss was recovered. Chargebacks, which are a 
voluntary scheme, werent pursued for the remaining amounts. However, all of the 
payments from Barclays were made to legitimate merchants who then carried out the 
service (by converting the funds to cryptocurrency). While some of Ms Ss 
chargeback claims did succeed, this was only due to the merchants failure to 
respond. Under the applicable rules, I cant see that they should have succeeded. 
So, it follows that the remaining chargebacks also shouldnt have succeeded. I would 
expect Barclays to have attempted chargebacks on the remaining amounts where 
there was a reasonable chance of recovery  but I dont consider that there was 
here. As a result, I dont think Barclays can fairly be asked to take any further action. 
So, while Ms S believes Barclays should reimburse the amount she lost, I dont 
agree. To say that it should, Id have to be persuaded it should have done more 
before the payments were made  and I dont think it should have for the reasons 
given above. Or Id have to be persuaded that it should have done more to recover 
the funds  but Im not satisfied the remaining chargebacks would have been 
successful. 
I note that Ms S has said she was told the money had already been returned to her. 
And I can appreciate how disappointing it would have been to be told this incorrectly. 
But that doesnt mean that Barclays is now required to reimburse her. I note that 
Barclays provided compensation of £50 for giving Ms S incorrect information. And, as 
I cant see grounds to refund her, I think this amount is fair. I also note, which I 
reference for the sake of completeness, that Barclays awarded £100 for delays. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman