DRN-3514141
The complaint
Miss F complains that she was mis-sold a fee-paying Advantage Gold Account (AGA) in 
2004 by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision about this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Miss F says she rang NatWest to arrange a loan or overdraft and was persuaded to take out 
an AGA as it would improve her chances of being approved for lending.
NatWest says that no advice was given in the call and Miss F chose to take out the AGA 
based on the information about the benefits it gave her.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this matter dont appear to be in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for 
my provisional decision.
I think its more likely than not Miss F knew she had a choice about whether to open an AGA 
or not as shed had a fee free account previously and had taken out loans and had an 
overdraft without a fee-paying account.
Miss F says that she is unclear exactly how her call in 2004 went as it was many years ago 
and this is understandable. NatWest doesnt have a recording of the call or any transcript.
However, both parties agree that Miss F approached NatWest by phone to ask to borrow 
money, and not to ask about a fee-paying AGA.
So, in my view I think its more likely than not NatWest introduced the AGA into the 
conversation with the clear implication that it would be beneficial to Miss F to take one out.
Nat West says that the sale was non-advised, but I think its more likely than not it did 
persuade Miss F to take out the AGA either by giving advice based on her circumstances 
or providing information in a way that didnt enable Miss F to make an informed decision.
I say this because the main benefits of the product were travel insurance and reduced 
rates for loans and overdrafts.
Miss F says she was struggling financially, so I think its more likely than not she would only 
have opened an AGA if she thought it was to her financial advantage. And she says that 
she hadnt travelled since 2000 due to a medical condition and didnt have a Gold Credit 
Card which was required to take advantage of the travel insurance.
So, I think its more likely than not that the phone conversation led her to believe that she 
would make savings on any loan or overdraft or overdraft she was given that would at 
least cover her monthly fees.
However, the large loan she applied for was opened three days before NatWest 
processed and opened her AGA, so she received no saving on that loan, and the saving 
on her overdraft was too small to have come anywhere near covering the £8 a month fee.
NatWest has confirmed in writing that it has no evidence of her receiving any discount on 
any loans taken out while she had the AGA. It has also confirmed that there is no 
evidence Miss F used any of the benefits other than the very small overdraft benefit at 
any time.
NatWest argues that it has sent her lots of detailed information about the account over the 
years so she must have decided to keep it open. Miss F says that she has always thought 
based on her original conversation that she would lose out if she closed the AGA. In my 
view I think if shed realised at any point that she was losing financially by having the AGA 
its more likely than not she wouldve closed it for the reasons given above.
So, in my view the AGA was unsuitable for Miss F and NatWest either advised her 
incorrectly or didnt provide her with enough information in the call with her in 2004 to 
make an informed decision.
So, I think NatWest mis-sold the AGA to Miss F and Im minded to uphold her complaint.
Putting things right
Im minded to require National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Pay Miss F the amount Miss F paid each month for the Advantage 
Gold Account from April 2004 until December 2019.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid them until she 
gets them back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss F has saved money because of a better rate on her overdraft or any loan 
by having the packaged account and NatWest can show exactly how much Miss 
F saved, it may deduct her savings from the amount it pays her  but only after 
it has calculated the two points above. NatWest must explain clearly and simply 
to Miss F how it has worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. 
NatWest must give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Miss F didnt add anything further.
NatWest sent in some evidence that Miss F received a saving on two loans she took out a 
year after the AGA opened. But the saving she made on those loans was small compared to how much she paid for the 
AGA.
So, my conclusions remain as outlined above in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require National Westminster bank Plc to pay redress to Miss F as shown in the Putting 
things right section of my provisional decision shown above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Fs complaint and require National Westminster bank 
Plc to pay Miss F redress as shown above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman