DRN-2653144
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has put on his record a 
withdrawn claim listed on the Claims Underwriting Exchange Database (CUE), and that it 
had recorded his date of birth wrongly. 
What happened
Mr C took out a policy with Admiral in August 2020. However he was disturbed to note that it 
had recorded his date of birth wrongly and also that it had said he had made a claim in 
August 2017 with another insurer. He wanted Admiral to amend its records in that respect as 
he had withdrawn the claim and nothing was paid out.
Admiral apologised for the date of birth being recorded incorrectly and confirmed it had now 
had this amended on its records. With regard to the claim, it confirmed that it had recorded 
this as an incident as it was listed on CUE. It offered to cancel the policy and waive any 
cancellation fees.
Mr C was concerned that it would affect his premiums in the future and wanted the record 
withdrawn.
On referral to this service our investigator said that we cant amend the record on CUE. The 
previous insurer said it had been recorded correctly. She noted that the date of birth had 
been amended and proposed taking no further action.
Mr C has been in contact with his previous insurer who confirmed they had recorded it as a 
withdrawn claim and that it wouldnt affect his ability to obtain insurance. They had offered to 
speak to Admiral about it but Admiral declined.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer sets up a new policy it asks about a consumers claims record and it may 
check CUE, and record anything it finds. I dont think Admiral has incorrectly recorded the 
August 2017 matter. The previous insurer has confirmed it recorded it as a withdrawn claim 
with no pay-out. On the insurance proposal form for Admiral this is recorded as a claim with 
£0.00 cost. The question on the form refers to any loss damage or liability whether insured 
or not.. 
So, as the withdrawn claim has been correctly recorded on CUE and Admiral has recorded it 
as a claim with no pay-out, I dont think theres been any error to remedy here.
I understand Mr Cs concern that it would be recorded on CUE if he made an enquiry. A 
simple enquiry should not be recorded as a claim, but as Ive said insurers are interested in 
incidents giving rise to damage whether insured or not so they can accurately assess the 
risk. 
Having said that, a withdrawn small claim should have a minimal effect on premiums but if 
Mr C is concerned that it will affect his premiums he has the option to insure elsewhere, as 
different insurers have different criteria. As Admiral offered to cancel the policy and charge 
no cancellation fees, I think it dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly.
As for the date of birth Admiral says it has now recorded this correctly so I dont think it 
needs to take any further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman