DRN-3978509
The complaint
Miss E complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to protect her from losing money to 
an investment scam.
What happened
Miss E has explained that in 2021 she made the following payments using her Monzo debit 
card for what she thought was a legitimate investment with a company Ill call G. 
Date Amount
18 May 2021 £301.36
25 June 2021 £1,500.41
05 July 2021 £1,508.25
13 July 2021 £1,503.78
14 September 2021 £1,281.68
11 November 2021 £1,999.82
Total £8,095.30
Miss E later got in touch with Monzo to report shed been scammed. Monzo didnt reimburse 
her lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Miss E referred her complaint about Monzo to our 
service. As our Investigator was unable to resolve the matter informally, the case has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as 
our Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Im sorry if Miss E lost this money to a scam. But in circumstances like this, this doesnt 
automatically entitle her to a refund from Monzo. It would only be fair for me to tell Monzo to 
reimburse her if I thought it reasonably ought to have prevented the payments or it 
unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds.
Prevention
Ive thought carefully and Im not persuaded I can say Monzo reasonably ought to have been 
obliged to have prevented the payments. This is because Monzo would generally be 
expected to process payments a customer authorises it to make. And under the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Miss E is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance, in circumstances where she authorised the payments. That 
said, as a matter of good industry practice, Monzo should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there are many payments 
made by customers each day and its not reasonable to expect a bank to stop and check 
every payment instruction. Banks need to strike a balance between intervening in payments 
to prevent scams and financial harm, and the risk of unnecessarily inconveniencing or 
delaying legitimate transactions. 
 
Here Im satisfied Monzo didnt seek to intervene in the payments. And Im satisfied that the 
payment instructions werent sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for me to say it was 
unreasonable for Monzo to process them without questioning Miss E about them first.
It wasnt unusual for Miss E to make payments for this amount. Miss E has said some of her 
previous legitimate payments for larger amounts were to her partner who was a 
well-established payee who she paid regularly. But nevertheless, I think it would still have 
been fair for Monzo to take these into account in forming a general picture of the operation of 
her account. And there were several other payments, which I understand were not to 
Miss Es partner, from December 2020 to April 2021 for amounts similar to or greater than 
the disputed transactions. 
It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to say Monzo ought to have thought the first payment 
(to Sipay) sufficiently unusual to warrant intervention; nor the subsequent payments to 
Wisenex, a crypto exchange. Not all payments made to crypto exchanges are the result of a 
scam. And in my view the amounts Miss E paid to Wisenex werent sufficiently unusual given 
the prior operation of her account for Monzo to be reasonably obliged to have intervened in 
them before processing them. I dont think the spacing of the payments to Wisenex would 
have looked suspicious either. 
It follows, therefore, that Im not persuaded Monzo unreasonably missed an opportunity to 
prevent the payments nor therefore Miss Es loss. 
Recovery
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect Monzo to have done anything 
further until Miss E notified it of the scam. Then, because these were debit card payments, 
the only potential avenue for recovery of the payments would have been via the chargeback 
scheme.
However, Miss E made the payments from her Monzo debit card to Sipay and Wisenex first 
(and not directly to the scammers). This means the merchants here, for chargeback 
purposes, would be Sipay and Wisenex (and not the scammers). But Sipay and Wisenex 
appear to have legitimately provided the services intended, and the subsequent transfer of 
the funds on from there to the scammers would not give rise to a valid chargeback claim 
through Monzo. So I dont think these payments were recoverable through Monzo once they 
had been made.I realise this means Miss E is out of pocket. And Im sorry she lost this money. But I cant 
reasonably ask Monzo to reimburse her in circumstances where I dont think it ought 
reasonably to have prevented the payments or been able to recover them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman