DRN-2841822
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a mortgage a 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B was sold an MPPI policy in June 1991 whilst arranging a mortgage within a meeting 
with Nationwide. The policy and mortgage ended in or before February 2004.
Mr B says it was put to him by Nationwide that it was in his best interests to take the MPPI
policy and that he was not advised the policy was optional. He believes he was mis-
informed.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2020. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain the reasons for this.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding
circumstances.
Firstly, Ive looked at the optionality of the policy as Mr B has said he was not advised the
policy was optional. In this case though, the MPPI wasnt optional; the policy was a condition
of taking a mortgage with a loan to value rate of 95% or higher. A financial business isnt
precluded from making payment protection insurance a condition of credit. However, it is a
requirement that the business make it clear that the policy isnt optional.
As I have already mentioned, Mr B complained to us that the optionality of the MPPI wasnt
made clear to him. But in this case the obligation on Nationwide was to make it clear that the
MPPI was compulsory. Mr Bs recollections about the sale are not detailed but this is
understandable due to the many years that have passed. So, I have looked at any sample
sales documentation I can find to give me an idea as to what more likely than not would 
have happened. I also have relied on my knowledge of how sales were conducted by 
Nationwide at that time also. Having considered the sample paperwork from the time of the 
sale, I can see that on a sample application form it does say that the policy is a compulsory
requirement. I think that having read this and considered what I know of sales at that that
time, Mr B would have been informed that the policy wasnt optional, and that it was being
sold with a mortgage with a loan to value rate of over 95%. So, on balance, without a more 
detailed recollection of what happened, or further evidence to support what Mr B have said, I 
am persuaded Nationwide made it clear that the MPPI was compulsory and part of the 
mortgage that he selected.
Next, Nationwide didnt recommend the MPPI to Mr B, so it wasnt required to make sure
that it was suitable for him. But it was required to give him information that was clear, fair
and not misleading so he could make the decision about whether or not to take the MPPI.
Ive considered the possibility that Nationwide didnt give Mr B clear enough information
about the cost, benefits, main exclusions and restrictions of the policy. Mr B told us that his
employer benefits would have paid out for six months full pay and six months half pay.
But the policy would have paid out for up to 24 months and the cost was comparable to the
cost of other, similar policies available at the time. Its also possible Nationwide didnt point
out the main things the policy didnt cover. But given his circumstances, Mr B wouldnt
have been affected by any of those things.
On balance, I dont think having better information would have dissuaded Mr B from buying
the PPI. So overall, Ive concluded this policy wasnt mis-sold.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Nationwide responded and said it has no further comments 
to make. Mr B have not responded by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has not made any further points and Mr B has not responded. So, as neither 
party has anything further to add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within 
my provisional decision. With that being the case, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman