DRN-1499787
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1997. Ms S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Ms S said the PPI must have been added without her knowledge as she didnt need it, so 
she would not have bought it. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Ms 
S disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds Bank made it clear that Ms S didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Lloyds Bank recommended the PPI to Ms S so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds Bank gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms 
S.
 
But Lloyds Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms S because: 
Lloyds Bank got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms S about that. Because Lloyds Bank didnt 
tell Ms S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds Bank has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Ms S has said - including what she said about her employee 
benefits and that she didnt need PPI. But at the time of the sale, she had no savings and the policy could have lasted for a period of 12 months for a successful claim  which is longer 
than her sick pay. So these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms S any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, 
so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman