DRN-1844161
The complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of Mr M that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from 
Black Horse Limited isnt of satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
Mr M acquired a used car in November 2019. The car was 6 years old and had travelled 
around 36,000 miles. Mr M paid £10,595. Six weeks after purchase the car suffered a 
transmission failure and Mr M has had to pay around £2,000 for repairs.
Black Horse didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr M is 
a taxi driver and he had used the car for work. He had covered 6,000 miles in six weeks and 
so Black Horse thought the problems with the car were because of wear and tear.
Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt 
think it should be upheld. He thought that based on the fact that Mr M had been able to 
cover 6,000 miles in just six weeks it couldnt be said that the problem with the gearbox was 
there or developing at the point of sale.
Mr K on behalf of Mr M didnt agree and said that the car would have broken down anyway 
within six months if he had travelled an average of 1,000 miles per month. He said that the 
car should have been serviced and it was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mr M. Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review Mr Ms complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse, as the supplier of the car, is responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M - whether or not it was of satisfactory 
quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of 
the car and the price that was paid for it. 
The car that was supplied to Mr M was 6 years old, had been driven for around 36,000 
miles and had a price of £10,595. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which 
means that the components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable 
amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of 
factors including the subsequent use of the car. Clearly, it can be reasonable to expect 
an older car to have more faults and require replacement of items more often than a 
brand-new car.
There hasnt been an independent inspection of the car. The garage that the dealership 
sent the car to suggested that there were worn parts within the gearbox. I havent seen any 
evidence that makes clear exactly what the cause of the faults were. 
Theres clearly a fault with the gearbox but Ive seen no independent evidence to show that 
this fault was present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr M. Although there 
was an early failure it must be considered in the context that Mr M had travelled over 6,000 
miles in a short time so Im not persuaded that the issues the car had were present or 
developing when the car was supplied to Mr M. It is reasonable to conclude that the fault 
has developed as a result of wear and tear casued by Mr Ms heavy use of the car. 
I understand the point Mr M is making with respect to the average mileage and the fact 
that the gearbox would potentially have failed within 6 months. But I think that in a car of 
this age and mileage that has been used as a taxi, it is likely that parts will be subject to 
heavier use and wear out more quickly. It isnt possible for me to say how long the parts 
would have lasted if it covered the same amount of miles over a longer period.
I sympathise with Mr M for the issues that hes had with the car and for the expensive 
repairs that it needed  but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him.
I note that the supplying dealership has offered to contribute £400 to the repairs and I 
leave it to Mr M to decide whether he wants to accept that offer. I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Black Horse to take any 
other action in response to Mr Ms complaint.
I note Mr Ms complaint about the service history of the car  but Im not able to deal 
with that aspect as part of this decison as Black Horse have not addressed this part of 
Mr Ms complaint and he will need to raise it with them first.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
7 January 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman