DRN-3782455
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the way in which Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. handled a claim made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O had the benefit of a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Mapfre (the policy). He 
made a claim on the policy in early December 2020. That claim was resolved in mid-
February 2021.
Mr O was unhappy with the delays caused and that Mapfre didnt get back to him when it 
said it would. This resulted in him having to unnecessarily chase Mapfre for updates. 
Mapfre accepted that it couldve done more to contact him about his claim and offered him 
£75 as compensation for the inconvenience it caused Mr O. Mr O is unhappy with that 
amount, so he referred a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and felt that the offer of £75 was fair and 
reasonable. Mr O disagreed. So, his complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
Mr O has since said to our investigator that the offer of £75 hasnt been paid to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mapfre has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. 
It isnt disputed that Mapfre couldve done more to update Mr O. After making the claim, 
further information was requested from Mr O, which he promptly provided. Mr O says there 
were times when he had to unnecessarily chase Mapfre for updates. From what Ive seen, 
Im prepared to accept what he says about that and Mapfre hasnt provided us with 
information weve requested. I accept this wouldve been frustrating for him. 
And because we havent received anything from Mapfre to explain the length of time taken to 
cover the claim made by Mr O  despite allowing it opportunities to do so - it does look like 
Mapfre took too long to resolve the claim once Mr O provided it with the further information 
requested. Again, I accept this wouldve been frustrating for Mr O. 
Mapfre has offered £75 compensation. I know Mr O disagrees, but I think this sum fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of what Mapfre couldve 
done better here.
Putting things right
If it hasnt already done so, I direct Mapfre to pay Mr O £75 compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint to the extent that I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional 
De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay Mr O £75, if this payment hasnt already been made 
as Mr O says. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman