DRN-4321251
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs G have complained that delay by Barclays Bank UK PLC in removing a legal 
charge from their property title caused delays in completion of their new lifetime equity 
release mortgage taken out through a different lender. 
As a result of the delay, Mr B and Mrs G had two mortgage offers at interest rates of 4.99% 
and 5.28% respectively withdrawn. By the time Barclays had removed the charge and the 
equity release mortgage completed, the interest rate on the equity release mortgage had 
increased to 5.5%.
Mr B and Mrs G would like Barclays to compensate them for its error. The bank has 
accepted it made a mistake and has agreed to pay compensation. 
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. 
Secondly, Barclays has accepted it made an error, and that the consequence of that error is 
that Mr B and Mrs G have a mortgage at a higher rate of interest than if the error hadnt been 
made. Therefore the only issue I need to decide is what Barclays needs to do to put things 
right. 
Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr B and Mrs G being identified. So for these reasons, I will instead 
concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If Barclays had removed the charge in 2016 when Mr B settled his liability to the bank that 
had been secured by the charge, Mr B and Mrs G would have had no impediment to 
completing on their new equity release mortgage in 2022 at the initial rate of 4.99%. Their 
property was, I understand, otherwise unencumbered and so taking out the equity release 
mortgage should have been a very straightforward process.
Barclays has acknowledged that, because of its delays, Mr B and Mrs G had to take out a 
mortgage at a higher interest rate of 5.5% instead of the 4.99% they should have had. The 
bank has agreed to compensate them for the additional interest over the lifetime of the 
mortgage.
The mortgage offers show that the difference in interest charged over a 25-year period at 
5.5% is almost £56,000 more than at 4.9%, so a significant amount over the term of the 
mortgage.
Initially our investigator asked Barclays to pay the interest differential as a lump sum, up to 
the point where the younger of Mr B or Mrs G passed away, went into long term care or 
reached the age of 88, or to the point where any early repayment charge ceased to apply. 
He also asked Barclays to increase an offer of compensation it had made for distress and 
inconvenience (£40) to £250.
However, the bank wasnt prepared to do this, saying that if it paid, say, 21 years interest in 
a lump sum up front, there would be nothing to prevent Mr B and Mrs G from redeeming the 
mortgage much sooner than that, and thus they would have had a windfall to which they 
wouldnt otherwise have been entitled. 
Instead Barclays said that, upon receipt of the annual statement sent each year, it would 
refund the interest. Barclays also said it would increase the offer of compensation, initially to 
£500, but the bank later revised this to £1,000. The investigator agreed that this would be a 
fairer way of resolving the matter, but Mr B and Mrs G did not.
Mr B, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, put forward an alternative proposal. He 
said that he and Mrs G would agree to either of the following resolutions:
Barclays pay the £1,000 compensation, but then pay the difference in the interest 
annually, directly to his bank without any need for contact form him, until the mortgage is 
redeemed;
or
pay as a lump sum 50% of the interest differential calculated until his 88th birthday in 
2053.
Barclays didnt agree to this, and reiterated that its offer to refund interest annually was a 
fairer outcome, and that the £1,000 offered for distress and inconvenience reflected the 
additional effort this would cause to Mr B and Mrs G.
Putting things right
Ive thought about what both parties have said, and I can see the merit in both sides 
arguments. However, on balance, I am persuaded that Barclays offer to reimburse the 
interest annually is the more fair and reasonable outcome. 
We have to be fair to both parties, and I think that a lump sum payment of any amount 
(whether in full or 50% as Mr B proposed) has the potential to cause detriment to the bank 
and lead to what is known in legal terminology as unjust enrichment for Mr B and Mrs G. 
Thats because there is no guarantee they would keep the mortgage, and if they were to 
receive a lump sum of interest but then redeemed the mortgage they would have received a 
benefit to which they were not entitled. On the other hand, an annual refund will ensure that 
Mr B and Mrs G as well as Barclays are not financially disadvantaged.
I appreciate that this will result in some inconvenience to Mr B and Mrs G, as they will need 
to send their annual statements to Barclays. But its reasonable for Barclays to be sent the 
annual statements, so that it knows that the mortgage is still running. The bank has provided 
an email address for this. However, I think it might also be helpful for Barclays to appoint a 
named staff member for Mr B and Mrs G to contact too, in order to ensure continuity and to 
reduce the need for Mr B and Mrs G to have to explain each year why they are contacting 
the bank. Barclays would need to ensure that there is continuity here and if the nominated 
staff member moves to a new role or leaves the bank, another is appointed.I therefore direct Barclays Bank UK PLC, upon receipt of Mr B and Mrs Gs annual mortgage 
statement each year, to calculate the difference in interest between a mortgage of £191,025 
at 4.99% and the same amount at 5.5% and refund this to Mr B and Mrs G. 
(To this end, if Mr B and Mrs G accept my decision, we can provide Barclays with copies of 
the mortgage offers for the 4.99% and 5.5% mortgages, both of which contain a table 
showing the annual accumulation of interest, which should assist the bank in its 
calculations.)
I am satisfied that an enhanced award of compensation of £1,000 for distress and (primarily 
future) inconvenience is fair and reasonable, and I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay this 
to Mr B and Mrs G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to settle the 
complaint as set out above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman