DRN-2750995
The complaint
X is unhappy because Legal and General Assurance Society Limited stopped paying his 
claim.  
X has brought his complaint through a third-party representative, but for simplicity, Ill refer to 
all submissions as being made by X personally. 
What happened
X had income protection through his employer. He became unwell in August 2018 but 
managed to return to work in November that year following some support through CBT 
sessions and psychotherapy. Unfortunately, X began to suffer with poor mental health again 
and shortly after, in March 2019, he was off work and hasnt returned since. X complained of 
bullying in the workplace amongst other social stressors which he believed were the 
catalysts behind his absence. 
X was diagnosed with severe depression and made a claim on his income protection policy 
with L&G which was accepted in September 2019. But he stopped receiving benefit in 
August 2020. X said that L&G treated him unfairly by stopping his claim. He said hes still 
very unwell and suffering with symptoms of chronic depression and is simply too unwell to 
return to work. 
L&G said it stopped paying Xs claim because it decided he no longer met its definition of 
incapacity as described under the policy. It said that following an independent medical 
examination (IME) in July 2020, there was enough evidence to suggest X wasnt suffering 
with a medical condition severe enough to preclude him from work. 
Our investigator said that L&G had stopped Xs claim unfairly because it was unable to 
adequately demonstrate he no longer met the policy terms. He said that although there was 
some disagreement about Xs diagnosis between the specialists involved, one thing was 
clear, he was and remains, too unwell to work owing to the symptoms he suffered 
associated with his poor mental health. He said L&G should reinstate Xs claim, backdating 
the payments to when they stopped. He also said that it should pay 8% simple interest on 
that amount.  
L&G didnt agree. It responded with several arguments, some of which Ive summarised 
below. I wont list every point here, as some of them I dont think are particularly relevant for 
the purposes of my final decision. But I have considered everything its said in response. 
L&G said;
X is unable to show that his symptoms were severe enough to preclude him from 
work or fulfil the essential duties of his own generic role;
It considered the findings of three separate consultant psychiatrists in November 
2018, September 2019, January 2020, July 2020 prior to terminating his claim;
X was suffering with mixed anxiety and depressive order  which ultimately means 
he wasnt suffering with a more dominant illness and;
The IME completed in July 2020 was conducted by an occupational consultant 
psychiatrist and so should be given more weight when considering Xs readiness 
for work. 
And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Xs complaint, for similar reasons already explained 
by our investigator. I believe L&G terminated Xs claim unfairly because I dont think there 
was enough persuasive medical evidence to show X wasnt incapacitated as Im satisfied he 
was still unable to fulfil the key responsibilities of his role as project manager. Ill explain why. 
L&G has a responsibility not to avoid claims or terminate them unfairly. The reason I think it 
did this here is because X was suffering with depression and poor mental health from the 
beginning of his absence all the way through to the most recent medical report in June 2021. 
Ive seen Xs medical records and Im satisfied thats the case. L&G ought to have 
reasonably known this as it accepted his claim and paid it for almost a year. The issues 
began when L&G received a new medical report and some further context about Xs 
employment and his intention to bring a law suit against his employer.
X, as part of his legal proceedings, underwent an IME with a consultant psychiatrist, after 
being diagnosed with mixed anxiety and depression disorder. This prompted some dialogue 
between L&G and Xs employer about arranging their own IME with the view to challenging 
the one commissioned by X. 
Im highlighting this because having read a short dialogue here Im persuaded the intention 
behind the commissioning of this report was solely to challenge Xs IME report. The motive 
behind this remains unclear, but I felt uncomfortable when I discovered further discussion 
took place about a potential claims settlement around that time. It made me question why 
L&G needed its own IME when X was in the process of providing his. I know L&G has 
disputed this, but Im not persuaded by its response. I say that because L&Gs claims notes 
said;
discussed options of further IME or potentially settlement. Overall, decided IME with X the 
most appropriate as, if indicated, he will be happy to challenge the conclusions reached by 
the examiner 
This persuades me that L&G was considering settling Xs claim, however, it decided to 
commission its own report with the view to challenging, or in other words, disproving the 
report commissioned by X. I note that it was off the back of that report in July that L&G 
stopped paying Xs claim. 
The conclusion of the July 2020 report was that there was no objective evidence of any 
specific functional impairment secondary to illness that prevented X from returning to work. 
But Im less persuaded by what it says when I consider this in conjunction with the other 
specialists reports. I say that because all other reports indicate that X was suffering, quite 
severely in some respects, with symptoms of poor mental health. 
To summarise, X had been admitted to specialist mental health units twice, with on-going outpatient care, he was taking particularly potent psychotropic medication throughout the life 
of the claim and very sadly attempted to end his own life on more than one occasion.
X was also actively self-harming in such a way that was visible and acknowledged by the 
specialists thatd treated him for his on-going depression. The symptoms described by X are 
severe, including feeling negatively about himself to the point he frequently considered 
ending his own life, his level of self-harming, the disconnection he felt from his family and 
friends, the level of paranoid thoughts alongside his unstable mood and the relentless 
feelings of hopelessness. All of this was accompanied by his severe levels of depression 
and persuades me that X was unable to meet the usual requirements of his role.
I note there have been subsequent IMEs shared with L&G, which in my opinion, 
successfully and persuasively conclude that X is not well enough to return to work. L&G 
appear not to have assessed these reports fairly. Rather, it appears to have held its position 
that X is able to return to work. I understand L&Gs arguments that the specialists involved 
arent necessarily affiliated with occupational accreditations. But I should highlight they are 
still consultants and therefore specialists, and so to simply disregard, or effectively ignore 
those opinions in favour of the July report  without properly testing this medical evidence, is 
unfair. 
Dr B in July 2019 said that Xs mood had deteriorated so much that he appeared to be 
persistently depressed. She commented on his low mood and attempts to take his own life. 
She referred him for further treatment. In September 2020, following L&Gs IME, X was 
diagnosed with severe depression with suicidal ideation and was actively self-harming. A 
month later, Dr Js report in October 2020 said;
I am of the opinion that it is unlikely X would be fit for work at anything but basic
level until retirement age
Another consultant psychiatrist said;
X is showing typical symptoms of depression, namely low mood, low energy levels, poor 
sleep, appetite, concentration and also negative cognitions, thoughts of worthlessness, fear 
of the future and also his recent significant suicidal attempts
All of this medical evidence persuades me that X was unable to work because of his illness 
and its associated symptoms, prior to ending the claim and afterwards. I also think L&G 
should have reinstated the claim as theres enough persuasive medical evidence to 
demonstrate that X continued to meet the threshold of evidence required.
The policy says;
Own occupation
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the
deferred period. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I think X satisfied this term throughout the life of this claim 
and therefore I agree with our investigators view on how L&G should put this right. It must 
reinstate his claim and backdate the payments owed.  
My final decision
I uphold Xs complaint and Legal and General Assurance Society Limited must now;Reinstate Xs claim and backdate the payments to when it was stopped in August 
2020. It must also pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date it was owed 
until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman