DRN-3437751
The complaint
Mrs A had money stolen from her and Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has said it wont refund her. 
Mrs A is represented by her daughter, Ms A.
What happened
For ease Ill talk about Mrs A even where Ms A has made representations on Mrs As behalf.
Mrs A withdrew money over the counter in a Lloyds branch. Someone was waiting in the 
queue behind Mrs A and followed her out of the branch.
Close to home, Mrs A was approached by this person along with a second person and 
distracted. Mrs As handbag was opened, and someone stole the money shed withdrawn.
Mrs A reported this to the police and complained to Lloyds. Mrs A thought someone in the 
branch should have noticed what was happening and warned her. Mrs A asked Lloyds to 
refund her the money shed had stolen from her.
Lloyds replied and said it couldnt be responsible for the actions of another customer outside 
the branch. Lloyds also said it was impossible for branch staff to know Mrs A was going to 
be the victim of a crime simply because another customer left the queue at the same time as 
Mrs A left the branch.
Mrs A wasnt happy with this response and she brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
The investigator thought it wouldnt be fair for Lloyds to refund the money Mrs A lost as the 
robbery took place away from the branch. The investigator thought it would be unfair to hold 
Lloyds responsible for something one of its customers did outside the branch.
Mrs A didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to decide things. Mrs A felt it would be fair 
for Lloyds to at least offer a gesture of goodwill to acknowledge what happened to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mrs A has been the victim of a nasty crime, and Im very sympathetic to whats 
happened.
For me to fairly decide Lloyds should refund Mrs A I need to be satisfied it could, or should, 
have noticed Mrs A was going to be the victim of a crime. I also then need to be satisfied 
Lloyds could have done something to prevent the crime taking place.
Ive carefully read what Mrs A has said happened to her. Mrs A says she withdrew money 
over the counter and someone in the queue, wearing bright coloured clothes, left the queue 
to follow Mrs A out the branch.
Mrs A has added the staff member counting the cash had loudly said how much was being 
withdrawn. As Mrs A reached her home one of the people distracted her while the other stole 
the money Mrs A had withdrawn.
The crime was reported to the police, and Lloyds has shared the CCTV footage it has. Mrs A 
is unhappy the police seem not to have looked at the right time, or the right branch. Mrs A 
has since seen the person who robbed them, and reported this to the police, but it seems no 
further actions been taken.
I cant comment on the actions of the police, so I cant consider whether the right CCTV has 
been viewed or if a suspect has been identified.
But I can look at what Lloyds did, and I dont think it could have anticipated Mrs A was going 
to be the victim of a crime. I dont think someone leaving a queue is suspicious, even when 
they would have stood out in bright clothing, nor is a cashier confirming how much Mrs A 
wanted to withdraw.
Unfortunately, its much easier to see what could have been done in hindsight. But, looking 
at what Mrs A and Lloyds have said happened at the time, I dont think it was obvious Mrs A 
was going to be the victim of a crime.
Because of this, I dont think theres anything Lloyds, or its staff members, could have done 
to prevent the crime from taking place. And because of this, I dont think Lloyds has done 
anything wrong.
I cant ask Lloyds to give a gesture of goodwill, thats for it to decide, I can only tell it to do 
more to resolve a complaint if I think its done something wrong, and I dont think it has.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman