DRN-4149406
The complaint
Mrs C complains about service received from Santander UK Plc (Santander) concerning an 
international payment.
What happened
On 26 October 2022, a company in Bahrain sent a payment of BD7,000 (£15,651) to Mrs Cs 
personal account at Santander. It was held for regulatory checks but was then returned to 
the sender on 11 November 2022. Santander had tried to contact Mrs C on 8 November 
2022, 9 November 2022, and 10 November 2022.
Mrs C complained. She said she had contacted Santander several times and got mixed 
messages about what had happened to the payment. She had to spend more than three 
hours on the phone to Santander  from an international number. And had to cancel a 
number of business meetings as a result. She said this had cost her loss of earnings of 
£520; cost of calls £450; and bank charges £1,000  a total of £1,970. She said Santander 
should have to pay a significant amount of compensation to teach them a lesson for the poor 
service she had received.
On 16 November 2022, Santander sent their first final response. It said the payment had 
been held for regulatory checks. The letter said that when Mrs C called Santander on 11 
November, she was told the payment was to be released to her account  but they couldnt 
say when that would be. 
On 24 November 2022, Santander sent a second final response which said the payment had 
been rejected and returned to the sender  on 11 November 2022. They apologised that Mrs 
C had previously been told that the payment would be credited to her account. Santander 
paid two amounts of compensation - £50 and £75.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Santander could carry out security 
checks on inward payments. Therefore, he didnt agree that bank charges or an exchange 
loss should be covered. But he could see that Santander shouldve told Mrs C on 11 
November 2022 that the payment had been returned. And then gave Mrs C inaccurate 
information on 16 November 2022. So  communications with Mrs C were poor. He 
considered that Santander should pay another £75 (total £200) for what happened.
Santander agreed, but Mrs C didnt. She said Santander should be punished and the offered 
compensation was paltry compared to the time she had spent on the matter and for the 
distress caused. She asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint  and so it has come 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, let me say that Santander were entitled to hold the payment to make security 
checks  that is part of their regulatory responsibilities  and return it if they couldnt be 
satisfied with the answers given, or couldnt get any answers.
Let me also say  we are an informal dispute resolution service which seeks to come to fair 
decisions where there is a complaint from a consumer about a financial business. We dont 
take sides. And Ive looked at all the evidence here in coming to a decision. We dont exist to 
punish firms - we are not the regulator of Santander  thats the role of the FCA.
Therefore  I dont question the right of Santander to hold the payment for security checks or 
return it when they did. But the crux of this complaint is about the communications with Mrs 
C throughout the process of what happened.
I can appreciate how frustrating this experience was for Mrs C. I can see that initially, 
Santander asked some security questions of Mrs C  which were sent back to her through 
the correspondent bank dealing with the payment. But this didnt come to anything in terms 
of a resolution.
And then  on 8 November 2022, 9 November 2022 and 10 November 2022, Santander 
tried to call or text Mrs C and asked her to get in touch about the payment, but without 
immediate success. Then, after Mrs C called on 11 November 2022  she was told the 
payment would be released into her account. And that was confirmed to her in Santanders 
first final response on 16 November 2022. But unfortunately, that response was wrong  and 
in fact, the payment had been sent back to the sender on 11 November 2022. Santander 
apologised in their second final response on 24 November 2022.
It isnt clear to me what happened between 11 November 2022 and 24 November 2022  for 
example, I havent seen a letter or email advising Mrs C the payment had been returned. 
Santander havent provided recordings of the calls with Mrs C during that period either.
Without evidence to the contrary  and given the mistakes made by Santander in the first 
response, Im persuaded that there was further misinformation given to Mrs C in calls 
between 11 November 2022 and 24 November 2022  and this must have been very 
frustrating for her. Mrs C has provided a record of calls made during that period and I agree 
they add up to more than three hours  although she has told us they were internet calls and 
didnt cost anything  but it took up her time. She also argues she had to cancel several 
customer appointments at a cost of £520. She has also told us that there were bank charges 
to pay for the returned payment  but not an exchange loss.
So  this comes down to what is a reasonable amount of compensation to pay to Mrs C. I 
discount bank charges - as Santander were entitled to return the payment to the sender. And 
Mrs C has told us there werent actually any call charges to pay  so I discount those also.
I considered Mrs Cs loss of earnings she has put to us - £520. But Im afraid to say that as a 
principle, our service doesnt ask a firm to pay loss of earnings  and I think its also 
reasonable for me to say that Mrs C took the decision to cancel the appointments she made 
to call Santander  I havent seen evidence that suggests there was a call back arranged at 
a specific time. So  I discount that also.
So  this comes down to the amount of compensation that is reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience suffered by Mrs C. Our service has set out some criteria by which we decide 
such awards. These are shown at:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenienceThese say - an award up to £300 might be suitable where there have been repeated small 
errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. I think that what 
happened to Mrs C fits this description and Im persuaded that the amount of £200 (to 
include what Santander have already paid) is fair and reasonable. Therefore, I agree that a 
further £75 should be paid to Mrs C. I can see that Mrs C will be disappointed by this, but I 
hope she can appreciate the reasoning behind my decision here.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc must:
Pay compensation of £75 for distress and inconvenience. This is in addition to the 
£125 already paid by Santander.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman