DRN-2385088
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him fee-paying Silver 
packaged bank accounts that were sold to him in 2008 and 2010.
Mr P has also complained that he tried to downgrade his account but was forced into 
keeping it.
What happened
Lloyds said that our service could not consider Mr Ps complaint about the sale of the two 
Silver packaged accounts. An ombudsman at our service issued a decision agreeing that we 
could not consider that part of Mr Ps complaint. So the only issue that our service can 
consider is Mr Ps concerns surrounding the downgrading of his account.
An adjudicator considered what Mr P and Lloyds had said and provided. But they couldnt 
see any indication to say that Mr P had been prevented from downgrading his account by 
Lloyds.
Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators findings, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has provided very little information about his comment that he tried to downgrade his 
account, but was prevented from doing so by Lloyds. 
Nevertheless, I have looked at all the information that is available. But I cannot see any 
evidence to indicate that this happened.
I can see that Mr P did ask for his Silver account to be downgraded on 3 December 2008. 
And it seems Lloyds was initially unable to do this at the time as it didnt have the correct 
address for Mr P. But then Mr P confirmed his address on 5 December 2008 and the 
account was subsequently downgraded. 
In August 2010, around the time he took out the Silver account for a second time (on his sole 
account), I can see that Mr P asked for his joint account (which was also a Silver account) to 
be closed. And based on what I have seen, it was.
I understand that Mr P downgraded his second Silver account, using online banking, on 26 
July 2019. And again, the information I have been presented with indicates that it was. 
Beyond these instances, Ive seen no indication to show that Mr P had either asked to 
downgrade his account and it wasnt, or was told that he couldnt.
 
Therefore based on everything I have seen, I cant reasonably conclude that Lloyds unfairly 
prevented Mr P from downgrading his Silver packaged account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman