DRN-3783126
The complaint
Miss K complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks before it granted loans to her. Had it done so, Morses wouldve 
discovered she couldnt afford to repay these loans. 
What happened
Miss K took five loans from Morses between May 2015 and June 2017. A summary of her 
borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
3 £100.00 11/05/2015 17/12/2015 34 £5.00
4 £150.00 17/12/2015 07/07/2016 33 £7.50
5 £150.00 07/07/2016 05/12/2016 33 £7.50
6 £300.00 05/12/2016 20/06/2017 33 £15.00
7 £300.00 20/06/2017 sold 33 £15.00
Morses has said Miss K may have had further loans. And looking at Morses own 
spreadsheet that it provided the loan numbering does suggest this given the first loan in the 
table in the above is a 3. 
Morses says the reason it has no further information is either due to its data retention policy 
or when it acquired other lenders it may not have purchased either historic loans or certain 
loan numbers. However, Miss Ks representative hasnt provided details of any further loans 
so this decision will only focus on the loans detailed above. 
Miss K had some problems repaying her final loan, and Morses has shown that it sold the 
outstanding debt to a third-party collection agency in August 2018.  
Following Miss Ks complaint, Morses considered it and didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this 
response, Miss Ks representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Morses made a reasonable 
decision to provide loans 3  5 (loan numbers based on the table above). 
However, she thought Morses needed to have done more before loan 6 was granted. She 
considered Miss Ks credit file, and while she could see some adverse information it wasnt 
in her view, sufficient to uphold this loan. 
But the adjudicator did uphold loan 7, in her view, had Morses carried out further checks 
before this loan was granted it wouldve likely discovered that Miss K had a recent County 
Court Judgement (CCJ) recorded against her as well as being in arrears with a utility 
company. Thinking about Miss Ks overall lending with Morses the adjudicator concluded this 
loan ought to not have been granted. 
Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment in summary it said.
Miss K borrowed relatively low value loans and none of them overlapped. 
There is no evidence that Miss K was using these loans to repay her other loans or 
other credit. 
The industry regulator didnt provide a list of checks that needed to be carried out 
before each loan was approved and therefore there was no legal requirement for 
Morses to have checked Miss Ks credit file.
These loans were repaid on time and without hardship. 
Loan 7 looked affordable based on the income and expenditure information Morses 
gathered from her. For loan 7, her income was checked with a wage slip and a 
benefits statement. 
Miss K had a good repayment history.
Miss Ks representative didnt provide any additional comments or evidence. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss K could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss 
Ks income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss K. These factors include:
Miss K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss K.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss K could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss K was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ks complaint.
Loan 3  6
The adjudicator didnt uphold these loans and neither Morses nor Miss Ks representative 
has disagreed with this. I therefore consider the dispute about these loans to be resolved, so 
I havent made a finding out them. But I have kept them in mind when thinking about the 
overall lending relationship between Miss K and Morses. 
Loan 7
For this loan, Morses carried out the same sort of checks as it did for the other loans. It 
asked Miss K for her weekly income and expenditure details. Miss K declared a weekly 
income of £421 made up of a salary and some benefits. She declared total outgoings of 
£190 per week for items such as rent and utilities and £23 per week for other credit 
commitments. 
This left Miss K with £208 per week in disposable income to afford her repayment of £15. 
Based on the results of these checks, Morses couldve been confident that Miss K would be 
able to afford the loan repayments. 
However, there were times when loans were taken in a consecutive manner. Loan 7 was 
also Miss Ks largest loan to date and was significantly larger than any of her previous loans 
and finally Miss K had been indebted to Morses for at least two years and was further 
extending that indebtedness by a further 33 weeks. 
Thinking about everything above, I do think Morses needed to have done further checks 
before this loan was approved. In my view It needed to have verified the information Miss K 
had provided. 
Morses couldve gone about doing this several ways, it couldve asked to see evidence of 
her income and or outgoings through evidence of wages or seen copies of bills. Morses says 
evidence of her income was taken. Or it couldve asked to see her bank statements to 
understand her living costs  which as far as I can see it didnt do.   
Miss K hasnt provided her bank statements, but she has provided a copy of her full credit 
file, which has enabled the Financial Ombudsman to see an overview of her credit status at 
the time this loan was approved. 
I appreciate that Morses didnt have to do a credit search before each loan, and it is correct 
in saying there is no set list of checks that the regulator would expect it to carry out. But I am 
satisfied that its checks needed to go further than what it did for this loan, and so Ive used 
the information that has been provided. As Ive said above, there were other sources and 
types of evidence it couldve collected. 
So, having considered Miss Ks credit file I do think there are signs that she was having 
ongoing financial difficulties and problems managing her current commitments. I can see 
that in January 2017, Miss K had a CCJ recorded against her. In addition, Miss K was now in arrears with a utility company for her water bill. Given the proximity of the CCJ and how 
recent the arrears were for her water bill, this to me would indicate that Miss K was having 
immediate financial difficulties and wasnt managing her outstanding commitments. 
On top of this, she still had three outstanding home credit loans with another provider, which 
meant she was already committed to paying this lender £75 per week. 
So had Morses made better checks, as Im satisfied it ought to have done, it wouldve 
discovered that Miss K wasnt able to take on this loan. As this is the case, Im upholding 
Miss Ks complaint about loan 7 only. Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in order 
to put things right.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss K from loan 7, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss K may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss K in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss K would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Miss K loan 7. 
If Morses has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If Morses cant buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below. 
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss K towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything you have already refunded. 
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss K which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss K 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss K as though they had 
been repayments towards the principal on loan 7. If this results in Miss K having 
made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E. 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B can 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a 
surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss K. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Miss K. Morses shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal you 
have already written-off. 
E. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ks credit file in 
relation to loan 7. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. You should give 
Miss K a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ks complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put thigs right for Miss K as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman