DRN-4192996
Complaint
Mr V is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc wont reimburse him after he fell victim to a scam.
Background
In late 2022, Mr V fell victim to a task-based affiliate marketing scam. He was browsing a 
social media platform and saw an advert for a job. He followed a link on the advert which led 
to him communicating with someone on a messaging platform. They explained the details of 
the role to Mr V. It seems to have been based on the notion that Mr V could help a business 
simulate increased buyer demand on third-party platforms, such as Amazon.
He would place orders through the scammers platform, which hed fund by transferring 
cryptocurrency from his own e-wallet to one controlled by the scammer. He was promised 
that hed earn commission that would greatly exceed the amount hed have to pay to 
participate in the program. In total, Mr V lost £3,249.98 to the scammer.
Once he realised hed fallen victim to a scam, he notified Bank of Scotland. It investigated, 
but it didnt agree to refund his money. It said that he didnt do anything to verify that he was 
talking to a genuine company or do any research of his own. It also said that it did block one 
of Mr Vs payments and spoke to him about it to check it wasnt fraudulent. The answers he 
gave to the employee of the bank werent accurate and so it wasnt possible for it to protect 
him from this scam.
Mr V wasnt happy with the response he received from the bank and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. Mr V didnt 
agree with the Investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me to consider 
and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant regulations, the starting point is that Mr V is liable for any payment that 
hes authorised. He made these payments of his own volition and so he is presumed liable at 
first instance.
However, that isnt the end of the story. As a matter of good industry practice, Bank of 
Scotland was expected to be on the lookout for unusual or out of character transactions that 
might have indicated that Mr V as at risk of financial harm due to fraud. On identifying such a 
transaction, Id expect it to respond to the risk in a proportionate way  for example, by 
temporarily blocking a payment and talking to its customer to ensure that theyre not at risk 
of fraud.
That did happen here. Mr V authorised a payment of £720.98 and Bank of Scotland 
temporarily blocked the payment and asked him to call. When Mr V spoke with the bank, the 
call handler asked him whether he was making the payment on behalf of someone else or 
for himself. He responded that he was making it for himself. He was also asked whether hed 
been asked by someone on social media to make the transactions and he said that he 
hadnt.
Mr V has accepted that he didnt answer these questions truthfully but says he was worried 
about losing the commission payment he thought he was entitled to. From what hes told us, 
he wasnt asked by the scammer to mislead the bank. Unfortunately, I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable for me to ask Bank of Scotland to reimburse him when it did what Id 
have expected it to do. It couldnt realistically have protected Mr V from the scam unless he 
answered the call handlers questions honestly.
I also understand that several months earlier, Mr V began to receive treatment for mental 
health difficulties, and he was continuing to receive treatment at the time of the scam. Hes 
said that these difficulties essentially meant that he was more vulnerable to the scam than 
he otherwise wouldve been. I sympathise greatly with difficulties Mr V has experienced and I 
can accept that its likely he was more at risk because of his mental health difficulties. 
However, from the evidence Ive seen, Bank of Scotland wasnt aware of what Mr V was 
going through at the time and so it wouldnt have had any reason to treat payments from his 
account with greater caution or to handle the conversation it had with him in a different way.
For completeness, I also considered whether Bank of Scotland couldve done more to help 
Mr V once it became aware that hed fallen victim to a scam. I dont think it couldve done 
anything to recover the funds  Mr V made the payments to an e-wallet that was in his own 
name before they were converted to cryptocurrency and transferred to the fraudsters, so by 
the time hed told the bank what had happened, the funds had already been moved on. I 
also agree with the Investigator that a chargeback wouldnt have any prospect of success 
here.
I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish what Mr V has been through. He has certainly 
been the victim of a manipulative and cruel scam. However, my role is limited to considering 
the actions and inactions of the bank. Overall, Im not persuaded that Bank of Scotland did 
anything wrong here.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman