DRN-1371936
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 2002. Mr D says Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him 
the PPI.
What happened
Mr D said he applied for his credit card on a postal application form and later received a 
telephone call where Barclays told him he had to buy the PPI to get the credit. He says he 
felt forced to take the PPI. He complained to Barclays.
Barclays rejected Mr Ds complaint, so he complained to this Service.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr D disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons:
Mr D bought the PPI and his credit card on a postal application form. He says he 
received a telephone call telling him he had to buy the PPI, but I dont think this is likely 
because it looks like Mr D chose to have PPI on his application form. I also think 
Barclays made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI because he had a choice 
of Yes or No tick boxes, and I can see he ticked the Yes box on his postal 
application. So I think Mr D chose to take PPI, although  due to the time thats elapsed - 
I can understand why he cant now remember this.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
could have been. But as I think he chose to take out the PPI - it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so 
it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off from 
taking out the cover. 
Mr D also said he could have relied on his family to make his credit card repayments. I 
do understand the point he is making, but there was no guarantee that he could still rely 
on this support at some unknown point in the future. So I think the PPI could have been 
useful for him.
Mr D also told us he would get some sick pay from his employer. But I think the PPI 
could have lasted for longer than and in addition to his sick pay. So even though he had 
employee benefits, I dont think this reduced the value of the PPI to Mr D. 
All of the above means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr D.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said - including what he has said about feeling forced 
to buy PPI, the help he could get from his family and his useful employee benefits. But these 
points dont change my decision, so I am not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D. 
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman