DRN-1441767
 
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc delayed opening a new bank account for 
him and led him to believe that there was a problem with his credit file when that was not the 
case. 
What happened
Mr R asked about a rewards product he had seen advertised on TV while queueing at one of 
Barclays branches. He said the staff there led him to believe that if he had two direct debits 
being paid from the mortgage current account he already had and a certain amount of 
money going into the account each month, he would be eligible for the rewards.
He says when he returned to the branch the following week he was told he had to open a 
new, different type of current account in order to qualify for the rewards. But, when he tried 
to open this account on 1 March 2019 at the branch, he was told that there was a credit 
check issue and so opening the new account would not be possible.
Mr R says the staff told him he could get his own credit report in order to identify the problem 
with his credit file. He said he got a report from one credit agency that showed that he had a 
perfect credit score. He said he used this to appeal Barclays decision but his appeal failed. 
On 27 March 2019 Mr R complained to Barclays as he was still unsure as to why his 
application for a new current account had been refused. He said he was told to get further 
credit reports- from the agencies that Barclays uses instead of the one he had which he 
believes can take a long time. In his complaint he said he didnt believe there was an issue 
with his credit file, unless he had been a victim of identity fraud. 
Two days later Barclays opened Mr Rs new account. It said there was nothing wrong with 
his credit score and that the reason it hadnt been able to open the account for him was a 
system issue. Mr R was unhappy about the stress he had gone through and also the time 
hed spent looking into his credit file. He was also unhappy that a payment had gone out of 
his account at the start rather than the end of April which led him to becoming overdrawn. 
But he said the £3 charge had been refunded to him by Barclays.
Barclays upheld Mr Rs complaint. It paid him £79 in addition to the £3 refund. Mr R didnt 
think this was enough and complained to us. Barclays then wrote to us and said it was 
prepared to offer Mr R a further £100 for the upset it caused him.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld and that Barclays should pay Mr R 
£200 compensation in addition to what it had already paid him. He also thought it should 
amend the records of his account to show it was opened on 8 March 2019 which is when it 
first identified its systems issues. Barclays agreed to pay the compensation but Mr R didnt 
accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Before I went ahead with my decision our investigator asked Barclays whether it had been 
able to amend its records to show the account was opened on 8 March 2019 instead of 29 March 2019. Barclays said this isnt possible but that it had, in any event, paid Mr R the 
rewards he wouldve earned in March 2019. 
Our investigator made Mr R aware of this. Mr R said that was fine and that he didnt think 
this was particularly relevant in this case. He said his complaint was about Barclays service 
and the effect its negligence had on him. He said in addition to his concerns about identity 
fraud he was also very distressed by the fact that he was not able to speak to the person 
behind the decision not to open the account for him or to anyone in that department.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint.
From what Ive seen Mr R enquired about the rewards around the 1 March 2019 but his 
account was not opened until 29 March 2019. Barclays accepts that the delay was not 
related to his credit file- like it had told him- but due to an internal issue. 
Barclays also told us that the issue with its internal system was identified on 8 March 2019. 
Despite this I cant see that it made Mr R aware of this or that it opened a new account for 
him for another 21 days. I think had it done so it would have spared him the stress of 
worrying about identity fraud and also some of the inconvenience involved with applying for 
a credit report. Also, from what Ive seen, Mr R provided Barclays with his credit report; 
which he says showed him having a score of 999 out of 999; on 18 March 2019 but it still 
refused to open the account he had applied for. 
Mr R also told us that he had to drive to the branch that was handling his application a 
number of times in his attempt to open his account. He said the drive to the branch is about 
an hour long. He also said he had a lot of sleepless nights because he was very concerned 
he had been the victim of identity fraud. 
Putting things right
I think Barclays should pay Mr R £200, in addition to what it has already paid him, for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused him. I appreciate Mr R doesnt feel this is enough but 
this is in line with what I would normally award for this level of trouble and upset. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK Plc must 
pay Mr R £200 (in addition to what it has already paid him) for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him. It must do so within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr R 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
If Barclays Bank UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2020.
 Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman