DRN-3740296
The complaint
Mr B complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) wrongly advised him to take 
out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. Aviva accepted that its 
representative might not have made Mr B aware of the in-house AVC options that were 
available to him within his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) at the time of the sale. And 
offered him financial redress based on the difference in charges between the FSAVC and 
the in-house AVC alternative. But Mr B feels that the redress should be based on him having 
chosen the in-house added years option instead. 
Mr B is represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). But Ill only 
refer to him in my decision.
Mr Bs FSAVC was taken out with another business. But Aviva is responsible for the 
complaint. And Ill only refer to it in my decision. 
What happened
Mr B joined his OPS in August 1972. 
Mr B met Avivas representative in March 1992. His priority was to provide for his retirement. 
His attitude to risk (ATR) was recorded as cautious. His annual salary was £20,820. The 
representative recommended an FSAVC plan, with £66.67 gross (£50 net) monthly 
contributions. Mr B didnt select the indexation option. Avivas representative recommended 
that the contributions be reviewed annually.
Mr B met Avivas representative again in March 1993. His salary was now £22,068. He 
agreed to increase his contributions to £100 a month gross (£75 net). He didnt select the 
indexation option. His priority was retirement income and he still had a cautious ATR. 
Theres no record of any further meetings between Mr B and Avivas representative. I 
understand that he didnt change his contributions to the FSAVC plan again until he stopped 
contributing on 1 August 2004. He took his retirement benefits from the FSAVC plan and the 
OPS in 2004. 
Avivas representative at the time of the sale was tied, which meant she could only 
recommend Avivas products to Mr B. But the representative still had to comply with 
regulatory guidance for the sale of FSAVCs. The guidance at the time required the adviser 
to: 
-Draw Mr B's attention to the in-house alternative scheme. 
-Discuss the generic differences between the two routes.
-Direct Mr B to his employer or his OPS for more information on the in-house option. 
At the time of the initial sale, Mr B was aged 47, married, and had been a member of his 
OPS for almost 20 years. He had around 12 years left until his normal retirement age of 60. 
So he had potential total OPS service of 32 years. I understand that in 1992, each added 
year wouldve cost Mr B 1.73% of his salary for every year up to age 60.
Mr Bs OPS had two AVC options available alongside it  an in-house AVC, and an added 
years option, which wouldve allowed Mr B to increase his potential service up to a maximum 
of 40 years. Mr B was eligible to join either.
On 1 March 2022, Mr Bs CMC complained to Aviva on Mr Bs behalf. It said that Avivas 
adviser had failed to establish if his OPS had an added years (or any other enhanced 
benefit) AVC arrangement. And that if she had, Mr B wouldve chosen that option. It also 
said that there was no evidence that the adviser had compared the benefits of the FSAVC 
with additional contributions to the AVC scheme offered by the OPS. And no evidence that 
she had made Mr B fully aware of the comparison of charges with the FSAVC and the in-
house AVC scheme. It said the adviser shouldve referred Mr B to the OPS for the full details 
of charges so that he could make an informed choice. And that if shed advised Mr B 
correctly, he wouldve contributed to the most suitable in-house AVC arrangement.
It also made the following complaint points:
The adviser had failed to accurately assess the level of risk Mr B was willing to take.
There was no justifiable reason for Mr B having the portable FSAVC as he was likely 
to remain in the same employment until his retirement. 
Aviva issued a final response to the complaint on 27 April 2022. It upheld the complaint. It 
said it couldnt confirm if its representative had made Mr B aware of the in-house AVC 
arrangements for members of his OPS. Aviva said it would complete a loss assessment on 
the basis if Mr B had been correctly advised, he wouldve contributed to the in-house AVC 
scheme rather than the FSAVC. It said that as Mr B hadnt indexed his FSAVC contributions, 
and had only increased them once, it didnt consider that added years was an appropriate 
match.  
Mr Bs CMC didnt agree with Avivas proposed loss calculation. It said that a charges only 
calculation wouldnt fully compensate Mr B for the losses hed suffered. And that an added 
years calculation should be carried out instead. It felt that Mr B wouldve chosen the added 
years option if hed been properly advised. And that, in that case, he wouldve committed to 
buying as many added years as his affordable contributions wouldve purchased. It said that 
Mr Bs initial contributions to the FSAVC plan couldve instead been used to buy more than 
two added years.  
Mr Bs CMC also said that Mr Bs FSAVC hadnt been set up on an increasing basis 
because of the failure of Avivas representative. It said that while she had advised Mr B in 
1992 that the FSAVC contribution would need to be reviewed annually, it didnt know what 
her intention for the contribution level had been, because thered only been one review. It 
said that Mr B had increased his contributions by 50% at that review in 1993.
Mr Bs CMC also said that the fact that Mr B hadnt continued to increase his contributions 
over time wasnt an important factor in whether he wouldve purchased added years if hed 
been correctly advised. And repeated its point that in any event, Mr Bs initial contributions 
had been sufficient in themselves to buy two added years.
Aviva didnt agree with Mr Bs CMC. It remained of the view that the loss assessment should 
be carried out on a charges only basis. It said that Mr Bs annual salary was £20,820 in 1992 
and £22,068 in 1993. And that if hed asked his OPS about added years he wouldve been told he couldnt buy more than 5 years 2 months at a starting cost of £155.11 each month. 
Aviva still felt that the in-house AVC wouldve been considered a potentially more affordable 
way of covering the shortfall in pensionable service.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service on 29 June 2022, through his CMC. He said his 
complaint was about the negligence of Avivas adviser in giving him the advice to have a 
FSAVC plan, and that the plan was unsuitable for him.
Aviva issued a further final response letter on 13 July 2022. This confirmed the loss 
assessment had been based on the assumption that Mr B wouldve chosen to make 
additional contributions to the in-house AVC scheme if hed been properly advised. It said 
that as that scheme had lower charges than the FSAVC, the loss assessment had compared 
the effect of the different charging structures on Mr Bs retirement benefits. 
Aviva offered Mr B a cash payment of £1,939.27. This was based on the outcome of the loss 
assessment showing that the poor advice had resulted in a financial loss of £2,281.49 
(gross). And allowed for a deduction of 15% to reflect the fact that had it been invested in a 
pension plan then at some point 75% of the benefit would, in theory, have provided Mr B 
with a taxable income.
Our investigator considered Avivas offer, and what Mr Bs CMC had said, and felt that the 
offer was fair. She wasnt persuaded that Mr B wouldve opted to purchase added years 
rather than joining the in-house AVC. 
Mr Bs CMC disagreed with our investigator. It made the following points: 
-The added years option was a no risk option, as it wouldve given Mr B a guaranteed 
return over the period to retirement and there would be no annuity risk at retirement. 
Whereas the in-house AVC option carried a degree of risk depending on which fund 
it was invested in. Mr B had a cautious ATR, so was suited to the guaranteed option 
of added years, rather than either of the money purchase AVCs. 
-Its argument had always been that we should look at the contribution level that Mr B 
could afford and then assess the number of added years that he couldve bought if 
hed been correctly advised. It didnt say he wanted to buy the maximum number of 
added years. 
-Mr B didnt need the flexibility of the in-house AVC option as he wasnt expecting to 
leave his profession. 
-It was the advisers fault that Mr B hadnt indexed his contributions. If shed 
suggested this to Mr B and shown him the benefits of doing so, he wouldve agreed. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Having considered the evidence, I dont uphold the complaint. Im persuaded that, if Mr B had been properly advised, he wouldve concluded that his employers AVC scheme was 
more cost effective than the FSAVC. And he wouldve chosen the in-house AVC scheme 
over the added years option. Ill explain the reasons for my decision. 
Ive carefully considered whether Mr B wouldve bought added years in his OPS, given his 
circumstances at the time of the sale, if hed been properly advised. Mr B was 47 years old 
and had been in his job for almost 20 years. Given his work history and the nature of his 
profession, Im satisfied that he was likely to remain within that profession until his expected 
retirement date.
At the time of the advice, Mr Bs salary was £20,820. And his initial contribution into the 
FSAVC plan was £66.66 each month gross, £50 each month net. Had he instead purchased 
added years, I understand that the cost wouldve been 1.73% of his salary up to age 60 for 
each added year. 
£66.66 each month gross is around £800 gross. As Mr Bs salary was £20,820 at the time of 
the sale, his FSAVC contribution represented around 3.8% of salary. This wouldve 
purchased just over two added years. 
As Mr Bs OPS offered 1/80 per year of service, two added years wouldve appeared to offer 
Mr B around 2/80 of additional pension each year. This wouldve been around £520 each 
year based on his existing salary, although this of course wouldve increased in line with the 
increases to his final pensionable salary within the OPS, as would the required contributions 
to fund the added years.
At the time of the sale, illustrations for FSAVCs were required to be produced on three 
bases, a lower rate, mid-rate and upper rate. The illustrations provided for Mr B were 
produced on this basis, using future investment returns of 8.5%, 10.75% and 13.00% 
respectively. These are clearly very high compared to todays rates.
The illustrations of the benefits Mr B might get if he paid £66.66 gross each month (£50 net) 
into his FSAVC suggested that he could get around £520 each year for his additional 
contributions. Aviva provided two different illustrations using different potential future rates of 
investment return and inflation. But both were higher than £520. I appreciate were not 
comparing like with like when we look at the illustrations and 2/80 of Mr Bs existing salary at 
the time of the sale, but I think its possible that Mr B wouldve made such a comparison. 
And if he had, I consider he wouldve naturally preferred the option which appeared to give 
him the bigger benefit. So he wouldve chosen the FSAVC option on this basis.
I acknowledge Mr Bs CMCs point that the added years option wouldve meant Mr B had no 
annuity risk at retirement, because it wouldve provided a guaranteed benefit. But I dont 
agree that it was a no risk option, as the amount Mr B wouldve received depended on his 
future salary, and his ability to continue to contribute an increasing nominal amount over 
time. And while I agree with Mr Bs CMC that the in-house AVC option wouldve carried a 
degree of investment risk, Im satisfied that at the time of advice, added years would likely 
have looked expensive compared to the projected benefits of the FSAVC, as Ive 
demonstrated earlier. I think Mr B wouldve been unlikely to want to spend a potentially 
greater monthly amount to get the same projected benefits from added years as he couldve 
had from the FSAVC. 
This point is even stronger when we consider that the in-house AVC option had lower 
charges than the FSAVC option, so its likely that even higher projected benefits wouldve 
been shown under an illustration for the in-house AVC option than the FSAVC plan Mr B 
took out, due to its lower charges.  Mr B was taking home £1,437 each month from his job in 1992. But as well as normal 
ongoing expenses, the information gathered at the time of the sale recorded that he had 
monthly loan repayments of £195 until 1999. And that he paid £463 each month in alimony. 
As Mr B had these significant long-term additional monthly costs, I consider it wouldve been 
difficult for him to have committed to the unknown future cost of even two additional added 
years. 
I say this because an application for added years would have committed Mr B to an 
increasing cost, linked to salary, until his normal retirement age. Mr B didnt choose to build 
increases into his FSAVC contributions  despite his application form having a simple box 
for him to select: Increasing by 5% per annum. And although he did increase his 
contributions to a total gross contribution of £100 each month in 1993, he didnt go on to 
make such increases over time. 
While I acknowledge that Mr Bs CMC said this was because his adviser failed to advise him 
to do so, Ive no evidence that this is the case. Im also not persuaded that Mr B couldve 
afforded to increase his FSAVC contributions any further. I say this because of his 
outstanding commitments for the loan and alimony payments I referenced earlier.
While I agree with Mr Bs CMC that there was no justifiable reason for Mr B having an 
FSAVC because it was portable, I consider that there wouldve been value for him having an 
FSAVC given it gave him the ability to stop, start, increase or decrease his contributions. 
This wouldnt have been an option under the added years option.  
Mr Bs CMC also said that Mr Bs cautious ATR meant that he was more clearly suited to the 
guaranteed option of added years, rather than either of the money purchase options (in-
house AVCs or FSAVCs). 
I can see that the cautious option  the lowest of three options  was selected on Mr Bs 
1992 application form. I agree that a cautious ATR does suggest that the guaranteed nature 
of added years mightve been attractive to Mr B. But Im not persuaded, given what Ive said 
above about affordability, that Mr Bs cautious ATR wouldve been enough for him to have 
instead opted for the unknown expense and commitment to the added years option. 
And, although I acknowledge that Mr Bs CMC has complained that Avivas adviser failed to 
accurately assess the level of risk Mr B was willing to take, Ive seen no evidence that this 
was the case.  
Mr B was 47 at the time of the advice. Hed already been working in his profession, and a 
member of his OPS, for 20 years. So Im satisfied that its reasonable to assume he was 
unlikely to change jobs before retirement. Mr B was also married at the time of advice. As 
such, he was more likely than a younger, single person, with less time in the profession, to 
benefit from added years. 
Based on Mr Bs age and time in his profession at the time of the advice, I consider that it 
was likely he wouldve remained with his employer. And as he wouldnt have exceeded the 
maximum years service allowed (40 years), I consider that added years wouldve likely 
produced more valuable benefits than what wouldve been achieved through his FSAVC. But 
these circumstances alone dont mean I consider that the complaint should be upheld on an 
added years basis. 
I say this because the cost of the different options is also critical here. As I noted above, 
added years didnt give a consumer as much flexibility as FSAVCs to stop and start 
contributions. This meant they could become unaffordable over time. The agreed starting level of contributions were often based on affordability, and Ive seen no 
evidence that wasnt the case here. I dont consider that more than around two added years 
were affordable at the time of the advice. And Im satisfied that, based on the reasonable 
illustrations provided at the time of the advice, the FSAVC option looked like it would provide 
better benefits. So Im of the view that Mr B wouldve chosen the in-house AVC option, 
rather than the added years option, if hed been properly advised. As such, I dont uphold 
this complaint, as I consider Aviva has taken reasonable steps to put things right. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman