DRN-2309100
The complaint
Mr B and Miss P complain about National House-Building Council (NHBC)s handling of their 
claim on their Buildmark policy.
Any references to NHBC also Include their agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Some of the points raised are about the quality of the original construction of 
Mr B and Miss Ps property. But these relate to the original builder, not NHBC. So I am 
unable to consider this in my decision and any reference is purely for contextual or reference 
purposes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B and Miss P have made several points. I want to assure them Ive considered all of 
them, but Im going to focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this 
complaint. I dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our 
service and my role in it. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr B and Miss Ps claim was accepted under section 3 of the Buildmark warranty. 
From looking at the information available NHBC said the damage was consistent with 
items failing to meet NHBCs technical requirements
Mr B and Miss P were unhappy with NHBCs assessment of the issues. One of the 
specialists believed condensation in the loft had been caused by a lack of ventilation. 
But NHBC believed a defect elsewhere had caused the condensation and should be 
resolved by their recommended fix of the defects. Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me this wont be case. But if Mr B and Miss P experience any further 
issues with condensation, they can refer it back to NHBC to consider
Mr B and Miss P were also unhappy NHBCs assessment was carried out via a 
desktop assessment and not through a visit to the property. Its not unusual in some 
circumstances for businesses to carry out desktop reviews where they feel they have 
enough information available to assess a claim. Considering the urgency and the 
information that was available, including photos of the issues and opinions from more 
than one specialist, I dont think NHBC acted unreasonably here. I can also see they 
reimbursed Mr B and Miss P for the cost of temporary repairs to the roof made in the 
early stages of the claim.
NHBC offered Mr B and Miss P £250 in compensation to reflect the inconvenience 
caused by delays in work beginning at their property. Claims of this nature can take 
some time to resolve but I can see there were times where there were avoidable 
delays. So I can fully appreciate Mr B and Miss Ps disappointment at not only the 
issues arising with a new home but additionally the frustration when they had to 
chase NHBC. But having taken the facts of this case into consideration, I wont be 
asking NHBC to pay any further compensation as I think the amount offered fairly 
represents the inconvenience, theyve suffered
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that dont uphold Mr B and Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman