DRN-3804850
The complaint
Mrs P complains Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium) are responsible for the 
mis-sale of four bonds to her. 
What happened
The bonds
All the bonds were sold to Mrs P in 2017. Three were three-year fixed monthly income IFISA 
bonds. They started in April, May and August respectively. The fourth bond was a three-year 
fixed monthly income bond. It started in June. 
Sales of these bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd). A separate 
business  Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc)  then issued the bonds. 
BG Ltd arranged applications for the bonds through a website it operated. It was responsible 
for advertising and marketing the bonds. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd to 
discuss them.
The bond was non-readily realisable. That meant there were rules restricting who it could be 
promoted to, and rules about testing whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. BG Ltd's online application process took steps to meet the obligations 
created by these rules.
While neither B&G Plc nor BG Ltd were regulated companies, both were appointed 
representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018. As such, Gallium  
which is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  is responsible for complaints 
about the acts and omissions either business allegedly made during this time
Mrs Ps investment in the bond
Mrs P says when she applied her only income was a state pension. She says she was 
investing her money along with other family members. She says they were searching for 
ISAs and a saving with good interest rates. 
Mrs P has told us she was an inexperienced investor, but held cash bonds, ISAs and a 
stocks and shares ISA with another bank. 
Mrs P says she first visited BG Ltds website in April 2017 after seeing adverts online. She 
says she spoke to BG Ltd before receiving the link to apply for the first bond. She then 
followed the same process to apply for the rest of her bonds.
Mrs P says she completed the online application form to get the bonds. She invested just 
over £78,000 across the four bonds. Each bond was to return the sum invested after three 
years, plus provide regular payments of interest to Mrs P. 
In January 2019, Gallium say a further company  B&G Finance Limited, which by that point 
had taken on BG Ltds role  sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This 
referred to the fact that nearly all the money invested had been lent to one short-term lender. 
Following action by the FCA, the short-term lender went into administration in March 2020. 
B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs P has not had her 
invested capital returned to her. 
The application process
When Mrs P referred her complaint to us we asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd 
held. We received five, but none of these seemed to be from prior to the first application in 
April 2017. As such, the calls havent helped me reach a conclusion for this case.
But Galliums records seem to confirm Mrs P completed an online application in April 2017 to 
set up the first bond. This was a key step to get the bonds, so Ive focussed my decision on 
the online process. 
Ive not seen Mrs Ps specific online application. But Ive seen screen-prints of each stage of 
the process shed have followed. This consisted of two stages: certification, designed to 
meet the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to; and then a test to decide if the 
investment was appropriate for Mrs P. 
Galliums response to Mrs Ps complaint
Gallium didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. It said Mrs P had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. 
Gallium made further submissions once Mrs Ps complaint came to us. Ive considered the 
submissions in full. Ive also considered what Gallium described as its position statement, 
which sets out general information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ps complaint and concluded it should be upheld. In 
summary they made the following points:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mrs P as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for her  was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mrs P wouldnt have decided to invest, or BG Ltd should have 
decided not to allow Mrs P to invest. 
For these reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the 
complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mrs P for the loss she has suffered on all 
four of her bonds.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium didnt accept the investigators view. In summary, it made the following points: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mrs P s complaint 
Regardless of label, Mrs P was required to confirm that she met the requirements of a restricted investor and confirmed that she did. It isnt fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mrs P giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds faced, as per the relevant rules.
Mrs P made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and 
didnt choose to surrender it when receiving the warning email in 2019. So she likely 
would have proceeded with the investment regardless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given Mrs P is complaining about the sale of these bonds to her, Im satisfied I must 
consider what BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did and were required to do when selling them 
to her. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, Ive 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulator rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are relevant 
here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading). Thats also relevant here. 
The rules for selling non-readily realisable bonds in 2017 were set out in COBS 4.7 and 
COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. Ive considered those rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs head of investment policy and UKCFA (UK Crowdfunding 
Association). Ive considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. 
In summary:
BG Ltd, acting as Galliums appointed representative, misled Mrs P into certifying 
herself as belonging in an investor category that wasnt right (a restricted investor) 
by changing the term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the 
category as being one anyone could fall into. 
This didnt treat Mrs P fairly or act in her best interests. 
Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mrs P, its unlikely she would have 
certified herself as being a restricted investor.The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, again as Galliums appointed 
representative, didnt meet the requirements of the rules. If it had, it would have been 
apparent the bonds werent an appropriate investment for Mrs P. 
With a more reasonable test of Mrs Ps knowledge and experience of these bonds, I 
find its likely shed have either appreciated their risk and not proceeded, or BG Ltd 
should have concluded it wasnt reasonable for them to sell the bonds to Mrs P.
Ive seen a paper form Mrs P completed to transfer an ISA to set up her third B&G 
bond. The form had further questions relating to Mrs Ps knowledge and experience. 
But these also didnt meet the standard needed to suitably test the appropriateness 
of the product for Mrs P.
Gallium have referred to an email from 2019 that talked about the risks affecting 
bonds like Mrs Ps. But Im not satisfied that did enough to inform Mrs P about how 
that related to her specifically. Mrs P couldnt have been aware from the email that 
BG Ltd hadnt taken suitable steps to assess her knowledge and experience when 
selling the bonds to her, or that they werent suitable for investors like her. Had the 
email done more to make Mrs P aware of that, shed likely have withdrawn from the 
bonds at that point. 
For these reasons my decision is that Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. If Gallium had 
acted reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations, Im satisfied Mrs P would either not have 
proceeded to make the investments in 2017, or would not have been allowed to proceed. All 
that means Im directing Gallium to compensate Mrs P for the losses shes had as a result.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs P as close to the 
position she would probably now be in if shed received a reasonable service from Gallium. 
I take the view that Mrs P would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mrs P's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
To compensate Mrs P fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mrs P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each of the four bonds.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom
(start date)To
(end date)Additional 
interest
(if not settled 
within 28 days of 
the business 
receiving the 
complainant's acceptance)
Three-year 
fixed monthly 
income IFISA 
bond
April 2017 
May 2017 
August 2017Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement 
Three-year 
fixed monthly 
income bond
June 2017Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement 
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs P agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If its not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mrs P that she repays to Gallium any amount she 
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
If therere a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically. If any distributions or income were automatically paid 
out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine the 
fair value, and not periodically.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs P wanted income with some growth without risking her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds is a fair measure given Mrs P's 
circumstances and objectives. It doesnt mean that Mrs P would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. Its instead in line with the investment return a consumer could 
have obtained taking a similar level of risk as Mrs P would likely have taken.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ps complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman