DRN-3857804
The complaint
Mr V says Moore and Smalley LLP (M&S) failed to constantly monitor his pension 
investments, as it had led him to believe it would do. He says it was reluctant to consider 
alternative investments. And he says it disengaged its services without warning.
What happened
Mr V met with M&S at the end of 2018. One of his main priorities was retirement planning. 
He wanted to maintain the value of his provisions in line or slightly ahead of inflation.
M&S gathered information about Mr Vs circumstances and attitude to risk. He was single 
with no financial dependents. He was earning around £75,000 a year and was said to have a 
net annual surplus income of around £30,000. Mr V owned his own home which was worth 
around £150,000. He didnt have a mortgage and no other liabilities were recorded. Mr V 
had cash savings of around £400,000. 
Mr V was 57 and wasnt planning to retire until he reached 67. He had two personal 
pensions with Canada Life and was a member of a Group Personal Pension (GPP) with 
Scottish Widows. Together his pot was worth around £358,000.
M&S conducted a risk appetite assessment with Mr V. This indicated he was cautious (3 
out of 10). It said this meant:
As a cautious investor you tend to see yourself as quite a cautious person and are inclined 
to view risk negatively rather than as a source of opportunity. If you have limited experience 
of investments and do not find financial matters easy to understand then you may be suited 
to a cautious approach to investing. You may also be suited to this approach if you take a 
fairly long time to make investment decisions and tend to be somewhat anxious about those 
decisions. As a cautious investor you are likely to look for safer investments, although you 
may consider taking some limited risk in exchange for potential increased returns.
M&S provided Mr V with a suitability report in February 2019. In summary it recommended 
Mr V should combine his existing pensions into a plan with Seven Investment Management 
(7IM) and invest it into its discretionary management arrangement and a model portfolio 
suitable for his cautious attitude to risk. It also advised him to keep open his existing GPP so 
he and his employer could continue making contributions into it until his retirement.
Mr V agreed to the advice and signed the suitability report to evidence this on 22 February 
2019. On the same day, he signed a client agreement. 
In October 2021 Mr V reached out to M&S asking for its thoughts about his pension 
investment given the current and projected climates. He asked if it may be wise to place his 
funds elsewhere. M&S called him back but he wasnt able to talk on that occasion.
Mr V followed up his enquiry on 1 December 2021 and said that had his GPP funds 
remained with Scottish Widows, they wouldve been worth significantly more. M&S 
responded the next day in some detail. It noted his Scottish Widows pension was invested in 
funds that were in excess of his risk appetite. It also noted the different investment strategies 
adopted by it and 7IM. So, it was difficult to make direct comparisons. It summarised in the 
following terms:
Whether you should transfer your funds and/or increase the risk of your 7IM or your Scottish 
Widows portfolio is difficult to answer without more detailed discussions. It is entirely 
possible that any one course of action could potentially generate greater investment returns 
but the reverse is equally true.
As with any financial planning the key consideration should be what are my objectives and 
what strategy (including risk) do I have to take to achieve my goals. If you can achieve these 
with lower risk (and therefore lower investment returns) do I need to take more risk that for 
higher returns that might mean not achieving my goals.
Hope this helps but I would be happy to arrange a call or meeting to look at in more detail.
Mr V responded on 15 December 2021. He agreed that it would be useful to develop 
thinking further in the new-year. He also asked for further explanation of why his investment 
returns were low over three years.
Unfortunately M&S didnt respond and Mr V had to chase for an answer on 19 January 2022. 
This time he referred to his concerns about M&Ss advice to switch his Scottish Widows 
funds to 7IM. And about the service he was receiving, which he considered wasnt what had 
been offered. He also asked for information about how quickly he could transfer from 7IM 
and what the charges and penalties would be for doing this.
M&Ss adviser responded on 20 January 2022. He apologised for the delay in responding to 
Mr Vs earlier email informing him hed been ill and was catching up with his work. The 
adviser again suggested they meet up to discuss the matters raised and it asked him for 
suggested dates/times. 
On 31 March 2022 Mr V sent an email to M&S noting his disappointment that hed asked for 
a written reply to his enquiries 70 days earlier and had still not received anything. 
M&S responded on 4 April 2022 apologising for his disappointment, but indicating it had 
been waiting for him to suggest convenient meeting dates. It said it was in any event now 
time for his annual review. It also confirmed there would be no exit penalties if he were to 
switch from 7IM. And said that timings of any switch would be dependent on the 
administration of both 7IM and any replacement provider.
There was a further exchange between the parties in May 2022 which didnt move matters 
forward in a substantive way. That led to Mr V raising a complaint on 20 June 2022. He 
didnt think he was receiving the service from M&S that he was sold and was paying for. It 
rejected his complaint. 
There was further to and fro between Mr V and M&S over the coming weeks. M&S provided 
an explanation as to why it didnt think it had got anything wrong. And on 20 July 2022 it sent 
him a letter saying it was disengaging its services.
Mr V brought his complaint to this Service and most recently expressed his concerns on 24 
November 2022 in the following terms:
one of my complaints is that the signed agreement stated that the investment would be 
constantly monitored but during my dispute with Moore & Smalley their representative stated 
that this was not the case and this would only be done annually. Over and above this is their 
general reluctance over the years to consider alternative investments.Another complaint is Moore & Smalley formally disengaged their services on the 20th July 
this year. This was done with no warning or notice. I then received correspondence from 7IM 
informing me that as now I have no financial adviser registered with them my investment 
was to be removed from their platform. This has left me totally exposed and I have had to 
seek the services of other financial advisers who I have instructed last week to remove my 
investment from 7IM and reinvestDuring the period since Moore & Smalley disengaged 
their services I have seen a major loss in my investment that I have had no control over.
An Investigator considered Mr Vs complaint. He didnt uphold it. He didnt think M&S was 
responsible for constantly monitoring his investment, nor had it held itself out as doing so. 
He also thought that in the circumstances it hadnt acted unreasonably in withdrawing its 
services.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by M&S for Mr V. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Vs case.
Taking Mr Vs complaints as expressed in turn. Firstly that M&S has failed to deliver an 
undertaking it gave him to constantly monitor his investments.
The suitability report M&S produced for Mr V in February 2019 said:
A Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM) will ensure you have a team of investment 
professionals constantly monitoring the underlying portfolio on an active basis. This means 
that they are able to act quickly when there are opportunities or concerns in the market.One of M&Ss recommendations to Mr V was to put in place a DFM service through 7IM. It 
was this firm which was keeping his investments under review on an ongoing basis.
M&S has explained what this meant in practice:
The DFM, 7IM, deliver model portfolios, matched to attitude to risk, for our clients. These 
are formally reviewed and adjusted/rebalanced on a quarterly basis, albeit they have the 
mandate and authority to make adjustments in between these quarterly dates, should they 
believe it to be necessary, or in the best interests of the portfolio investors. They are 
therefore actively monitoring these models.
Any decision to make interim adjustments would be based on their active ongoing 
monitoring of those portfolios, so it is therefore true that the DFM has an ongoing active role 
in monitoring the underlying portfolio and has the ability to act quickly when there are 
opportunities or concerns in the market.
Whilst these powers (to adjust in between the quarterly review dates) are rarely used, it 
does not contradict the fact that they are available for 7IM to use as appropriate. The last 
interim adjustment exercise was carried out by 7IM on 27/03/20 and was linked to the 
sudden market downturn caused by the pandemic, and the opportunities or concerns in the 
market at that time.
M&Ss explanation of how the DFM operated is what I wouldve expected. Mr Vs funds were 
being actively managed by 7IM in the arrangement hed agreed to.
Mr V was also receiving an ongoing advice service from M&S. The suitability report set out 
what this would entail:
We discussed your continuing requirements and given the pensions selected and nature of 
the contracts, I feel that you would benefit from our annual review service at 0.50% pa of 
funds under advice, subject to a minimum fee of £1,000.
This consists of an annual review meeting, including advice on continued suitability of your 
arrangements and consideration of other planning matters. Based on a total being invested 
on the 7IM platform of £347,059 (net of Moore & Smalley's fee), our ongoing fee will equate 
to £1,735 p.a. This will be paid via your pension with 7IM.
The client agreement set out the ongoing services to be provided by M&S. It said it would 
provide Mr V with an annual financial review which would include:
-An annual review meeting
-Revisiting of your aims and objectives
-Changes in your personal circumstances
-Progress towards your financial goals
-The impact of tax and legislative changes
-Reassessment of your attitude to risk and capacity for loss
-Review of the suitability of your investments
-Confirmation of any recommendations in a Suitability Report.
The client agreement also said:
An annual review of the underlying discretionary managed services within your portfolio. 
This will ensure that the selected portfolios remain appropriate for your attitude to risk and 
that the manager continues to meet their agreed mandate.Ongoing access to one of our Financial Planning Consultants, to assist you with any queries 
or advice at your request. There may however be additional fees for advice not covered 
under our annual financial review service.
From this information, I think Mr V ought reasonably to have been aware he was receiving 
two separate services. Indeed, I note his claim for redress suggests he understood this. 
Mr V says that there was a general reluctance on M&Ss part over the years to consider 
alternative investments. Annual financial reviews were carried out by it in 2020 and 2021. 
These found his attitude to risk remained cautious and that the DFM arrangement with 7IM 
remained appropriate. Based on the available evidence these seem reasonable conclusions 
for it to have reached. And Mr V could rely on such professional advice as being in his best 
interest.
In respect of the ongoing financial advice service, I think M&S tried to help Mr V when he 
approached it for information and his concerns about the performance of his 7IM pension pot 
at the end of 2021. For example, it explained comparing the performance of his existing 
portfolio with his former GPP was unhelpful. They were appropriate for different risk 
appetites and were employing different investment strategies. 
It might have been that Mr V was thinking his risk appetite had increased or that he was now 
uncertain about the value of an active management service for his funds. But these were 
matters that required a discussion with his adviser. Ive not seen in the exchanges he had 
with M&S any sense that he was giving instructions which it then failed to act on.
I can see that there were communication issues between the parties, particularly from 
January 2022. But I also think M&S made a clear offer for Mr V to obtain its advice, 
explaining why this was necessary. Indeed by April 2022 he was due his annual review. 
However, the relationship deteriorated and he didnt take the firm up on its suggestion.
Overall, I dont think M&S said it would constantly monitor his investments. That role was 
placed with the DFM. From the available evidence, I think M&S performed, or tried to 
perform, the role it was being paid for by Mr V.
Turning to the second complaint raised by Mr V  M&Ss disengagement of its service and 
the lack of any warning or notice about this. It sent him a letter about its decision on 20 July 
2022, which had immediate effect.
I agree with Mr V that M&Ss handling here wasnt best practice. I recognise the argument it 
has made that it shouldnt charge him fees as he wasnt making use of its service. However, 
I dont consider the withdrawal of services without warning, and without an appropriate 
period of notice to enable him to have put alternative arrangements in place, to have been 
reasonable.
That said, I can see the relationship between the parties appears to have broken down. 
Even if M&S had acted in a more professional manner, it seems Mr V may not have 
approached it for any advice or services during such a period in any event.
Mr V told this Service on 24 November 2022 that since the period from when M&S 
disengaged, hed experienced a major loss in his investments. I note at the time of writing he 
had only instructed a new financial adviser in the previous week to move his funds from 7IM. 
The problem here for Mr V is that he was put on notice on 20 July 2022 about the need to 
change his arrangements, he had responsibility from that point to attend to matters.Im also mindful that Mr Vs funds continued to be actively managed in line with his attitude 
to risk through the 7IM arrangement for several weeks after M&S withdrew its services. That 
firm wrote to him to say as he didnt have a financial adviser he was no longer eligible to use 
its platform. It said it would switch him to its 7IM Self Invest Service from 18 September 
2022. So he had nearly two months to take mitigating action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman