DRN-4261562
The complaint
Miss C complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect her against the loss of money 
to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, from 3 to 4 June 2022, Miss C made payments from her Revolut 
account to Skrill totalling £21,002. She understood these payments were destined for her 
Binance account from where she would send them onto what she thought was a legitimate 
investment platform.
Miss C later got in touch with Revolut to report shed been scammed. Revolut didnt 
reimburse her lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Miss C referred her complaint about Revolut 
to us, the Financial Ombudsman Service. As our Investigator was unable to resolve the 
matter informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
I sent Miss C and Revolut my provisional decision on 19 July 2023 explaining why I was 
minded to uphold the complaint in part, and to direct Revolut to pay Miss C £10,500 plus 
interest calculated at 8% simple per year. 
Revolut has said it accepts my provisional decision.
Miss C responded to my provisional decision and said that the scammer never used the 
word secret and was clever in the way he worded things; that she was hesitant at first, but 
after making a profit and seeing money return to her account, she thought the platform was 
genuine. Shes also said she doesnt know what or who Skrill is, and she doesnt have an 
account with them. 
Now that both parties have responded to my provisional decision, Im ready to explain my 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part  Ive reached the same 
conclusions, for the same reasons, as explained in my provisional decision. Ive explained 
why again below. 
Prevention
I accept that these were authorised transactions even though Miss C was tricked. So 
although she didnt intend the payments to ultimately go to scammers, Miss C is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance. However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
My fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good 
industry practice at the time in many previous decisions published on our website.
Bearing this in mind, I need to decide whether Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Miss C when it processed the relevant payments.
The first payment
The first payment from Miss Cs Revolut account to Skrill Ltd was on 3 June 2022 for £2 
(Miss C has said she doesnt know who or what Skrill is, and that she doesnt have an 
account with them; so, for clarity, I can explain Skrill would have acted as a payment 
processor here, enabling her funds to be moved into her Binance account). At such a low 
amount, I cant reasonably say Revoluts fraud and scams systems ought to have been 
triggered by this payment  nor, therefore, that Revolut ought to have been obliged to call 
and speak to Miss C before allowing the payment through, which I consider to be the only 
way its likely Miss Cs loss of this payment to the scam could have been avoided by actions 
of Revolut. Im not persuaded, therefore, that I can say Revolut unreasonably missed an 
opportunity to prevent this payment. 
The second payment
The second payment from Miss Cs Revolut account to Skrill was for £11,000. Given 
previous activity on Miss Cs Revolut account, I think its fair to say this payment was 
unusual and uncharacteristic. Miss Cs typical spend from her account was not close to 
being in the region of £11,000. Going back as far as February 2018, the two largest previous 
payments made from her account were both for amounts of around £2,200 (in 
December 2021). 
There were some large transactions made from Miss Cs account in January 2018. But these 
were almost two and a half years earlier. They appear unusual and uncharacteristic in their 
own right. And Im satisfied given the operation of the account since then that the second 
payment to Skrill ought reasonably to have triggered Revoluts attention, and it should have 
called her to check everything was in order, to meet its obligations Ive summarised above  
to protect her against the possibility of financial harm from a fraud or scam, before allowing 
the payment through.
Revolut has said Miss C was sent warnings when making the payment, and she would have 
received multiple other emails warning her of various scams. Ive taken this on board, 
particularly when considering contributory negligence. But I think Revolut ought to know that 
such warnings arent always sufficient for it to meet its obligations Ive summarised above, and that in a situation like this it really ought to have called and spoken to Miss C before 
allowing the payment through.
Revolut has argued that it would have known Miss Cs payments were going to her own 
Skrill or Binance account, as those businesses dont allow incoming payments from 
accounts not matching the beneficiary. However, by the time of the relevant payments in this 
case (June 2022), Revolut had or ought to have had a good understanding of how scams 
like this work, including that customers often move money to a different account in their own 
name before moving it on again from there to the scammers. So this wasnt a good reason 
not to pause the payment pending enquiries with Miss C. 
During the conversation I think Revolut ought reasonably to have had with Miss C, before it 
allowed the payment through, I would reasonably expect Revolut to have asked her who the 
payment was for, what the payment was for, and for the basic surrounding context, and to 
have then proceeded appropriately from there, with the intention to disturb or unearth a 
potential fraud or scam. I would, in the normal way, have no reason here to believe Miss C 
wouldnt have been open and upfront responding to Revoluts queries. Here, however, I note 
that Miss C has said she met the scammer online and he told her to keep the investment 
platform website a secret, as not many people knew about it. I note that Miss C has said in 
her response to my provisional decision that the scammer didnt use the exact word secret 
but worded things more cleverly than this. But Ive seen screenshots of the communications 
between Miss C and the scammer in which the scammer said he wanted Miss C to keep 
things between just them, and that this was very important. I dont think whether or not the 
scammer used the exact word secret changes this. 
So, its possible that, on Revoluts questioning, Miss C would have sought not to give it 
details of the investment platform her payments were ultimately destined for. However, I note 
that Miss C has plausibly stated she was a complete novice with trading like this, and I think 
she would most likely have taken Revoluts call seriously given the amount she was 
proposing to invest. And, on balance, I think its most likely she would have, at the very 
least, disclosed to Revolut the context of how shed met the scammer and the nature of the 
investment he had proposed. I think this ought to have led Revolut to be on high alert, and 
ultimately to have given Miss C a serious warning that she was at very high risk of being 
scammed. And I think its most likely that had this happened (as I think it ought to have 
done), Miss C would have opened up, but in any event, have decided, given Revoluts 
intervention, that the risk of proceeding was too high. So I think if Revolut had done what Id 
reasonably expect it to have done, given its obligations, that Miss C ultimately most likely 
wouldnt have proceeded with the payment. 
The third payment
Given what Ive said above, I think it follows that if Revolut had done what it ought to have 
done with regards to second payment, Miss C most likely wouldnt have proceeded with the 
third payment either. Recovery
Ive considered whether, after the payments were made and Revolut was notified of the 
scam by Miss C, Revolut unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds. Given I think Revolut 
ought to have prevented the second and third payments, I only need to consider this in 
regard to the first payment. However, Miss C didnt instruct Revolut to send this payment to 
the scammer, but instead to, effectively and ultimately, an account in her name. Thats what 
Revolut did. And I dont think it was ever going to be likely that Revolut would have been 
able to facilitate recovery of this payment after Miss C moved the payment from this other 
account of hers to the scammers. So Im satisfied I cant say Revolut unreasonably hindered 
recovery of this payment.
Putting things right
Ive explained why Im satisfied that if Revolut had done what it should have, the second and 
third payments wouldnt have been made and lost. Miss C received a credit of £626.50 into 
her Revolut account from Skrill on 3 June 2022. But I understand this stemmed from 
previous money invested from Binance. And in any event, this credit preceded the second 
and third payments. So Im satisfied this credit shouldnt be subtracted from the loss 
calculation. The loss suffered from the second and third payments therefore stands at 
£21,000.
Ive thought about whether Miss C should bear some responsibility for this loss by way of 
contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). I dont think its 
unfair to say Miss C really wasnt as careful with these payments as she reasonably ought to 
have been. I wouldnt have expected her, given her lack of experience, to have been well 
versed with scams like this, or necessarily to be aware how prevalent they have become in 
recent years. But I do think the fact she was told by the scammer that she shouldnt tell 
anyone else about things ought to have concerned her. She was also asked by the scammer 
to borrow money, which would be another flag. And I think overall she really ought to have 
realised things didnt seem quite right and that she was taking a high risk proceeding. Im 
satisfied in these circumstances that there should be a 50% reduction to the compensation 
payable to reflect Miss Cs contribution to the loss of these payments.
This means, I think Revolut should pay Miss C 50% of £21,000, which is £10,500. 
Ive considered what Revolut has said about the funds Miss C sent from her Revolut account 
originating from another bank, and its points about why this other bank isnt sharing 
responsibility for the loss. Its also pointed the finger at Skrill/Binance, as the final account in 
the payment journey from where Miss C sent the funds onto the scammers. However, whilst 
I note that at least £16,996 of the £21,000 sent onto Skrill from Revolut (in the form of the 
second and third payments) originated from another bank, our service already considered a 
separate complaint about that separate bank, the case was closed, and the full loss still 
remains. And whilst I acknowledge there were a number of parties involved here (including 
the cruel and callous scammers, ultimately responsible for the scam), I can only consider the 
only case open and before me here  which is this one against Revolut. If Revolut remains 
unhappy about this, it may wish to consider taking the matter up directly with the other bank 
and/or Binance/Skrill.
Im satisfied, for the reasons Ive explained, that Revolut reasonably ought to have prevented 
the second and third payments; that compensation should be reduced by 50% for Miss Cs 
contributory negligence; and that a payment of £10,500 from Revolut is therefore justified to 
fairly compensate her. It follows that Revolut should pay Miss C £10,500. To compensate Miss C for being deprived 
of this money since the date she lost it, Revolut should also pay Miss C interest on the 
amount calculated at 8% simple per year from the date she lost it to the date it is refunded. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct Revolut Ltd to pay 
Miss C:
£10,500; plus
interest on this amount calculated at 8% simple per year from the date of the 
payments to the date of settlement. If Revolut deducts tax from this interest, it should 
provide Miss C with a tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman