DRN-3712605
The complaint
Mrs F complains on behalf of her daughter, Miss F, that Forester Life Limited lost a 
document containing personal information whilst updating Miss Fs details.
What happened
Miss F is the beneficial owner of a savings plan held with Foresters. Mrs F manages this 
account on her daughters behalf. 
Miss F changed the name and gender she was assigned at birth by deed poll. Mrs F called 
Foresters to notify it of the change. She was told to send in the original deed poll certificate, 
or a certified copy of it, so that Foresters could update its records. Foresters assured her that 
if the document was sent to it by recorded delivery, itd ensure it was returned to her in the 
same way once the update was completed. 
Mrs F sent off the document shortly after this discussion, but she heard nothing from 
Foresters in the weeks that followed. She did however have confirmation that the document 
had been delivered. Mrs F chased Foresters for a response. 
Over the course of a number of conversations with Mrs F, Foresters came to the realisation 
itd lost the paperwork shed sent in. As an exception, it offered to accept an emailed copy of 
Miss Fs passport in place of the deed poll certificate. It also offered to pay £25 to replace 
the certificate itd lost. But Mrs F remained unhappy. She argued the information was 
particularly sensitive and that Foresters should keep looking for it until it was found. 
Foresters responded to Mrs Fs complaint and offered £75 to apologise for its mistake, as 
well as the £25 to cover the cost of a new certificate. But Mrs F remained unhappy, so she 
referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator recommended Foresters should increase the amount of compensation it 
was offering to £300, as well as covering the cost of a new certificate. They argued that: 
The information Foresters loss was particularly sensitive 
Its loss and uncertain fate potentially left Miss F at risk of fraud 
The events had caused Miss F a great deal of worry and upset 
Foresters didnt accept our investigators recommendation. It argued the level of 
compensation wed proposed was excessive. It did however increase its offer to Miss F to 
£150 as an apology, as well as covering the cost of a new certificate. 
As Foresters new offer wasnt accepted, the matters been referred to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on 29 November 2022. This is what I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Foresters is at fault for whats happened here. All parties accept 
Foresters received and subsequently lost track of the document Mrs F posted on her 
daughters behalf. What I need to decide therefore, is what should be done to resolve this 
matter, fairly and reasonably.  
Firstly, Im persuaded Foresters has done what it reasonably could to find the document it 
lost. Ive been provided with evidence which demonstrates Foresters carried out a thorough 
search for it, and ultimately came up empty handed. At this point, it seems highly unlikely the 
document will ever be found. Mindful of this, I think Foresters offer to pay the cost of a 
replacement certificate is the fairest thing it could do in the circumstances. There seems to 
be no dispute between the parties that £25 is enough to cover this. Im therefore satisfied 
that Foresters offer of £25 fairly resolves this element of the complaint. 
Next, I must consider the impact the loss of her document has had on Miss F and her 
mother. 
The information on the document Foresters lost was deeply personal to Miss F. Through her 
mother, Miss Fs told us how worried the pair of them have been as a result. Not knowing 
whats happened to the document, or whether thisll affect Miss F in the future has been 
particularly upsetting. And they must also now face the additional inconvenience of having to 
obtain a new copy of the document. 
Im therefore satisfied that some compensation is due, to address the impact of Foresters 
error. 
With that being said, I consider the risk of any actual harm coming to Miss F as a result of 
the error is quite remote indeed. Given the document never materialised in any of Foresters 
searches, I think theres a fair probability its been disposed of. Therefore, in my view, the 
impact of Foresters error is likely limited to the initial worry and upset caused by the 
document being lost, and the subsequent inconvenience of following the matter up and 
arranging a replacement. 
For this reason, Im satisfied its fair for Foresters to pay Miss F the sum of £150 to apologise 
for its mistake. 
In making this finding, which I appreciate differs from the conclusions our investigator made, 
I dont mean to downplay the significance of whats happened here. Foresters mistake had 
the potential to place Miss F at risk of harm befitting a greater award of compensation. But 
fortunately for Miss F, the evidence in this case doesnt persuade me she has, or is likely to 
come to any further harm as a result of the error. 
Im therefore satisfied that Foresters updated offer of £150, plus £25 to cover the 
replacement certificate is a fair and reasonable settlement to this complaint.  
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the findings in my provisional decision, theres no need to 
change them. All that remains is for me to make my decision final, which I shall now do. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. For the reasons given above, Foresters Life 
Limited must now pay Miss N the sum of £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
her. Plus a further £25 to cover the cost of a replacement certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman