DRN-3540742
The complaint
Mrs Rs complaint concerns a claim she brought against Santander UK Plc under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). She complains the bank failed to assess her claim fairly.
What happened
I have issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. I have reproduced the text of my 
second provisional decision below:
I summarised the background to the case in my first provisional decision as follows:
Mrs R and her late husband held a timeshare with a club I will call F. 
On 4 March 2017, some time after Mrs Rs husband died, she met with a 
company Ill call R, who she says promised they would release her from 
her timeshare with F and claim compensation for the mis-selling of the 
timeshare.
Mrs R signed up to a contract with R. The contract was also made out in 
her late husbands name. She made a payment of £2,446 on 6 March 2017 
on her Santander credit card, to a company Ill call MRLL. She couldnt 
afford to pay the balance of £5,708, so this was paid by bank transfer on 
her behalf by a relative, Mr M, to whom she now owes the money, on 10 
March 2017. The contract with R contained a guarantee that if Mrs R was 
not released from the timeshare within 12 months of 4 March 2017, she 
would receive all her money back.
R didnt release Mrs R from her timeshare with F within 12 months of 4 
March 2017, didnt give her all her money back, and then went into 
liquidation later in 2018. Mrs R continued to receive demands in the post 
from F for maintenance payments relating to the timeshare until at least 
early 2019.
Mrs R contacted Santander in March 2019 to make a claim under section 
75 of the CCA. Santander declined the claim on the grounds that there 
was not a valid debtor- creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place to 
allow Mrs R to

make a section 75 claim. This was because she had used her credit card 
to pay MRLL and not R.
In my provisional decision I noted that Section 75 of the CCA could allow Mrs R to 
make a claim against Santander if there had been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by a supplier of goods or services paid on her credit card, so long as 
certain conditions had been met.
One such condition was the need for there to be a DCS agreement in place. What this 
generally meant was that the person making a claim needed to have used their credit 
card to pay the same company they say breached its contract with them, or 
misrepresented something to them.
If the payment had been made to a third party then this would often cause the chain of 
connections to be broken, and for there to be no valid claim against the credit card 
provider. In Mrs Rs case, her credit card payment had not been made to R. Her 
payment instead went to MRLL. So on the face of it, it didnt look like there was a valid 
DCS agreement.
I then went on to consider certain exceptional circumstances in which, despite the 
company paid with the credit card being different to the one which was supplying the 
goods or services, a DCS agreement would still be held to exist. I considered one such 
circumstance existed in Mrs Rs case, which was that R and MRLL were what is known 
as associates, as defined in section 184 of the CCA, at the time Mrs R made her credit 
card payment to MRLL.
I went on to conclude that the fact R and MRLL were associates at the relevant time, 
meant it didnt matter that Mrs R had paid MRLL instead of R, and that there was a 
valid DCS agreement in place which would allow her to hold Santander liable for Rs 
breaches of contract or misrepresentations.
Going on to consider the question of whether there had in fact been any breaches of 
contract or misrepresentations by R, I noted that R had failed to release Mr Rs estate 
from its timeshare obligations. It had provided a guarantee that it would do so within 12 
months, or provide a full refund. It had done neither, and was therefore in breach of 
contract. I considered that Mrs R could hold Santander equally liable for that breach of 
contract due to the provisions of section 75 of the CCA.
I said I was minded to direct the bank to refund all the monies paid towards the 
contract, along with compensatory interest, and I then invited both parties to 
comment on my provisional findings.
Mrs R accepted my provisional decision. Santander did not. To summarise its 
arguments very briefly, it did not agree that it was relevant if R and MRLL were 
associates or not. Either way, the bank said, there was no DCS agreement, and so 
Mrs R did not have a valid claim against it.
Following further research, the case was returned to me to review once again.
What Ive now provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will state first of all that I dont agree with the arguments put forward by Santander. My 
view remains that if R and MRLL were associates at the time Mrs R made her credit 
card
payment to MRLL, then there is a DCS agreement in place which would allow Mrs R to 
hold the bank liable for Rs breach of contract. I have explained my position on this 
point to the bank in detail previously but it is not necessary for me to do so in this case 
as, unfortunately for Mrs R, I no longer hold the view that R and MRLL were associates 
at the time she made her credit card payment. Ill explain why, and in order to do so I think it would be helpful to start by quoting the section of my first provisional decision 
which dealt with this point:
According to the definition in the CCA, just being linked in some way, or having a 
commercial relationship, isnt enough by itself to make companies associates. As 
defined in the CCA, two companies will be associates of one another if they are 
controlled by the same people, or if people who control one company are associates of 
people who control the other company. People are associates of one another if they 
have certain familial relationships, or if they are in partnership.
Our most recent investigator concluded R and MRLL had been associates in the past, 
but were no longer associates at the time Mr R made her credit card payment. Having 
investigated further I think the companies remained associates until 20 April 2017. Ill 
explain further.
R had, as a director and shareholder, a Mr W, up until 20 April 2017. Mr W was a 
controller of R up to this date. A Mr K was the majority shareholder of MRLL as well as 
being its company secretary, until at least 1 February 2018. Mr K was a controller of 
MRLL.
Mr W and Mr K were 50/50 shareholders of a third company, RIG, from 20 January 
2016 up until the end of January 2018. They were joint controllers of RIG and 
associates between these dates due to them being in partnership at RIG.
As of 6 March 2017 when Mrs R made her credit card payment, both MRLL and R 
were controlled by individuals who were associates of one another. This means the 
two companies were themselves associates and it didnt matter, for the purposes of 
the DCS agreement, that Mrs R paid MRLL instead of the supplier, R.
Apart from the section I have underlined, my position remains as outlined in this extract 
from my first provisional decision. Turning to the underlined section, I am no longer of 
the view that Mr W and Mr K can be said to be in partnership.
Section 184(2) of the CCA says that if individuals are in partnership, then they are 
treated as being associates of one another. The CCA doesnt define what being in 
partnership means, but as civil partnerships are explicitly mentioned elsewhere, I think 
it refers to a partnership in a business sense. In my first provisional decision I adopted a 
broad and loose definition of what this should be taken to mean. On reflection however, 
and with the benefit of further investigation into the definition it is likely the drafters of 
the CCA had in mind, I think this was too expansive a definition. I think the formal, legal, 
definition of a partnership is most likely to be the correct one to use here, considering it 
appears in the context of a piece of legislation.
The legal definition of a partnership can be found in the Partnership Act 
1890: Definition of Partnership
(1)Partnership is the relation which subsists between persons carrying on a 
business in common with a view of profit.
(2)But the relation between members of any company or association which 
is [(a) registered under the Companies Act 2006, or]
(3)
(b) Formed or incorporated by or in pursuance of any other Act of Parliament or letters patent, or Royal Charter. . .
(c) . . .:
is not a partnership within the meaning of this Act.
There is some evidence available to suggest Mr K and Mr W were doing business 
together, presumably in the anticipation of mutual profit. But the Partnership Act 1890 
is very specific about what a partnership is not, and that includes the relation 
between members of any companyregistered under the Companies Act 2006.
This means that Mr W and Mr Rs joint control over RIG at the point of Mrs Rs credit 
card payment, is not evidence that these two individuals were in partnership and 
therefore is not evidence that they were associates either.
Ive considered whether there is any other evidence that Mr W and Mr R were in 
partnership and therefore associates at the relevant time. As Ive said above, there is 
evidence of business or commercial dealings, such as R granting a debenture to Mr K 
and his wife. Or one of Mr Ks companies providing accountancy services to R. But this 
doesnt show that Mr K and Mr W were in partnership. The former only shows that R 
probably owed Mr K money, and the latter only evidences that R had employed one of 
Mr Ks companies to provide accountancy services. Further enquiries we have made 
with Rs liquidators have failed to turn up any more useful information on this point.
Overall, this means that I do not think there is enough evidence to show Mr K and Mr W 
were in partnership in the sense meant in section 184 of the CCA. This means that, as of 
the date Mrs R made her credit card payment to MRLL, R and MRLL were not associates, 
and that a DCS agreement should not be held to exist unless therefore is some other 
route which would allow an alternative conclusion to be reached.
Other routes to potential liability for Santander
Ive referred to another potential route which would lead to a conclusion that there 
was a DCS agreement in place, and which would allow Mrs R to hold Santander 
liable for Rs breach of contract. This is because a supplier and payee being 
associates is not the only way in which a DCS agreement can still be held to be in 
place in a scenario where the supplier and payee are not the same entity.
Another way in which such an agreement could be held to exist was identified in the case 
of
Bank of Scotland v. Alfred Truman [2005] EWHC 583 QB.
The case concerned a firm of solicitors who had a motor trader as a client. The solicitors 
took credit card payments from customers of the motor trader, which had no facility to 
take such payments itself, as deposits for cars which they had ordered. The court found 
that the contractual arrangements between the motor trader and the solicitors were 
adequate to link the motor trader to the card scheme through the transactions 
processed via the solicitors credit card facilities, and therefore mean there were pre-existing arrangements1 between them and the creditor and therefore a valid DCS 
agreement.
The judge observed in the Alfred Truman case that there were problems with applying 
this conclusion as a general principle, and there were difficulties in establishing where 
the line should be drawn between scenarios where pre-existing arrangements should 
be considered to exist, and where things were too tenuous to be able to draw such a 
conclusion. The judge went on to say that the problem would need to be resolved on a 
case by case basis, and the precise contractual arrangements between the parties 
would determine whether the creditor had any liability under section 75.
In a later County Court case, Marshall v. Retail Installation Services Ltd [2016], the 
judge considered Alfred Truman in a slightly different context. In this case company A 
had contracted with a consumer to supply and install solar panels, but an unrelated 
company B had taken the credit card payments. The precise nature of the 
arrangements between the companies was not known, but company A had invoiced 
company B after the latter had taken payment. It was also established that company B 
was the supplier of the solar panels themselves. The judge found that company B had 
an interest in the supply and installation of the solar panels and this was sufficient for 
pre-existing arrangements to be in place between company A and the creditor.
The conclusion I draw from this is that, in the absence of precise knowledge of the 
contractual arrangements between the supplier and the payee, the involvement of the 
payee in the provision of the services under the contract between the debtor and the 
supplier, should be sufficient to be able to conclude there were pre-existing 
arrangements between the supplier and the creditor.
Applying this reasoning to Mrs Rs case, Ive seen no evidence that MRLL was 
involved in the provision of the services Mrs R had contracted with R for, so I dont 
think the case of Marshall helps Mrs R here. And my view is that we simply dont know 
enough about any agreements between R and MRLL to be able to say that pre-existing 
arrangements must be held to exist between R and Santander, in the same way as 
Alfred Truman.
In the Alfred Truman case the judge had the benefit of much more detailed information 
about the contractual arrangements between the solicitors and the motor trader. The 
information we have been able to obtain about R and MRLL has been inconclusive, 
despite attempts to contact the liquidators or R and MRLL, and individuals connected to 
the companies. Its clear there was a relationship between the companies. If there was 
not then I would not have expected MRLL to take payments for Rs customers. But I 
dont have enough information to establish just what the precise contractual 
arrangements were between them, and so I cant fairly reach a conclusion that these 
arrangements were the same as, or similar to, those in the Alfred Truman case.
This means I dont think the principles flowing from the cases of Alfred Truman and 
Marshall would allow me to conclude pre-existing arrangements existed between R and 
Santander for the purposes of Mrs Rs claim, or that there was a DCS agreement in 
place which would allow her to be able to make a valid claim against Santander under 
section 75 of the CCA.
1 1 The concept of pre-existing arrangements is outlined in section 187 of the CCA and was touched 
on in my first provisional decision. Pre-existing arrangements must exist between the creditor and 
supplier for there to be a DCS agreement. Where the credit card payment has not been made to the 
supplier, the existence of pre-existing arrangements is in doubt unless exceptions apply, such as the 
payee and supplier being associatesOverall conclusions
I know Mrs R, her family and representatives will be very disappointed with the change 
in my findings, especially given the long time it has taken to get to this stage with her 
case, and in light of the previous changes to our position. But I no longer think she had 
a valid claim against Santander under section 75 of the CCA. It follows that I dont think 
the bank treated her unfairly in declining her claim and so her complaint should not be 
upheld.
I understand that Rs liquidators have, in the last year or so, been able to recover a 
significant sum of money from an ex-director of the company, so it is possible Mrs R 
would
receive a dividend if she has made a claim in the liquidation. She may wish to explore 
this option if she has not already done so, as it represents a potential route via which 
she could get at least a proportion of her money back.
Concluding, I said I was now minded not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint about Santander, 
and invited all parties to let me have any final submissions. The deadline for further 
submissions has now passed and so the case has been returned to me once more.
The responses to my second provisional decision
Santander said it didnt have anything to add in response to the second provisional decision. 
Mrs Rs representatives said they disagreed and made the following points:
They had referred many similar complaints to this service which had been upheld.
All the companies involved in these complaints were linked by Mr K and his wife.
I had made a final decision where I had said the DCS was not broken on a case 
involving the same companies.
Mrs Rs representatives attached a copy of information relating to MRLL, R, RIG and other 
companies, and of a final decision I had made in another case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont find Mrs Rs representatives points to be persuasive. While it may be the case that 
similar cases have been successful it does not necessarily follow that all of them will be. The 
evidence and my interpretation of it in this case is different to the cases Mrs Rs 
representatives point to. And I appreciate my position has changed on this case due to 
considering the matter afresh after the responses to my provisional decision. 
Notwithstanding this, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my second 
provisional decision having considered the responses to that. It follows that I do not think 
Santander was wrong to decline Mrs Rs section 75 claim. And Im satisfied my decision is 
fair in the round.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above, including in the quoted text from my second provisional 
decision, I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman