DRN-4253969
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Unum Ltd has unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
Mrs P has a group income protection insurance policy through her employer, underwritten by 
Unum. This would pay a benefit if Mrs P was unable to work due to illness or injury 
throughout the deferred (waiting) period and beyond. 
In January 2020 Mrs P reduced her hours and in July 2021, she became completely absent 
from work due to illness. 
A claim was made to Unum but it said the claim was made too late and should have been 
notified when Mrs S reduced her hours. Mrs P said she didnt realise she had to claim when 
she reduced her hours as her employer was still paying her full salary. 
Unum assessed the claim, using January 2020 as the start of the deferred period. It said 
there was insufficient evidence to prove that Mrs P was incapacitated and the late 
notification had prejudiced its position to gather contemporaneous medical evidence. So it 
declined the claim. 
Mrs P appealed and complained but Unum maintained its decision so she referred her 
complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Unum had declined the claim 
unfairly. Mrs P disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
The claim was submitted late but thats because Mrs Ps absence was a gradual 
deterioration of her health.
Unum could have requested further information and evidence from the GP to support 
the claim.
Mrs P has been able to obtain ill health benefits from her deferred defined pension 
scheme based on the same medical evidence provided to Unum.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy sets out the definition of incapacity as follows:
Unable by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation.
The policy also defines actively at work as follows:
Is actively following their normal occupation, and
Is working the normal number of hours required by their contract of employment, and 
Is working at their normal business or at another business location, and 
Has not received medical advice to reduce or stop their work activity.
Unum say Mrs P should have submitted a claim at the point she was no longer performing 
her normal occupation and hours. But Unum wasnt notified until after Mrs P went fully 
absent over a year later. It said the claim was notified late.
Unum did still review the medical evidence from the deferred period which showed that Mrs 
P had reduced her hours due to headaches, neck pain and a fracture of her little toe. 
Despite the late notification, Unum reviewed all of the available medical evidence and 
concluded there was insufficient information commenting on Mrs Ps function and specifically 
how her illnesses affected her ability to do the main duties of her job. I agree that the 
medical evidence doesnt comment on Mrs P function in any detail so I dont think Unum 
unreasonably declined the claim on this basis.
Unum said if a members condition relapses, deteriorates or a new condition occurs within 
12 months of the commencement date, a new claim can be made even if they havent 
returned to work. Mrs P became fully absent on 12 July 2021. 
Mrs P provided further medical evidence in the form of occupational health (OH) reports 
which I can see Unum has considered. Ive summarised the contents here:
January 2021  This report said Mrs P wasnt under the care of any specialist for any of her 
declared health issues and the assessor commented: Mrs P was resolute that she plans to 
terminate her employment due to her health issues and didnt believe her symptoms of pain 
and fatigue would ever resolve to allow her to fulfil her contractual duties. The report 
concluded Mrs Ps physical and psychological capabilities may improve with medication.
July 2021  This report concluded Mrs P was unfit for work as she had significant pain and 
tiredness. It said she would benefit from seeing a surgeon and needed to follow a slow 
graded rehabilitation plan.
Unum reviewed the OH reports alongside her GP records and found that surgical 
intervention wasnt indicated and an MRI showed normal, age related changes which werent 
related to her headaches, neck or back pain. 
Mrs P provided a further report dated November 2022 which Unum reviewed but it said this 
report didnt provide any evidence of Mrs Ps function during the deferred period. 
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think Unum has adopted an unreasonable 
position in this case. Even though the claim was notified late, I am satisfied Unum did review 
the available medical evidence to consider whether Mrs P was incapacitated. I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to decline the claim as it reviewed the medical evidence in the 
form of GP notes and consultations but explained there was insufficient evidence showing 
how Mrs Ps illnesses affected her function and the duties of her role.
Turning now to Mrs Ps comments in response to the investigator, I appreciate why Mrs P 
submitted the claim late but Unum assessed the claim despite late notification. I think Unum 
requested the appropriate medical evidence based on the circumstances. As it wasnt 
notified of the claim earlier, it wasnt able to obtain further evidence or ask questions at the 
time Mrs P reduced her hours due to her illnesses. 
Mrs P also says she has been able to obtain other ill health benefits using the same medical 
evidence submitted to Unum. But the criteria for Mrs Ps income protection policy isnt 
necessarily the same as for other benefits. Based on the definition of incapacity in the policy 
terms and conditions, Mrs P has to demonstrate that she is unable to perform the material 
and substantial duties of her occupation due to her illness. Being diagnosed with an illness 
or being signed off work isnt sufficient by itself without commenting on her duties. 
Im not satisfied that the medical evidence from the deferred period or later persuasively 
demonstrates how Mrs Ps illnesses affected her ability to perform her role throughout the 
deferred period and beyond. So I dont think Unums decision was unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman