DRN-2037214
 
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so 
far, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator but for different reasons. I would like 
to explain why.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 28 August 2020. But unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the amount of money Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) 
has offered to settle his motor insurance claim following the theft of his car. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mr As car was stolen and he reported it to Admiral. They accepted the 
claim and it was considered a total loss. They initially considered the market value of the car 
to be £355 but this was re-considered and the value was increased to £805. Admiral paid 
£50 compensation to Mr A for making this error.
However Admiral said the valuation of £805 would be reduced because Mr A failed to 
disclose that he had two motoring offences at the time of buying the policy. They said had it 
been disclosed, they wouldve still offered the policy, but wouldve charged a higher 
premium. 
Admiral said because Mr A only paid about 29% of what he wouldve paid had he declared 
these offences, they would settle the claim on the same proportionate basis. Once they had 
done so and deducted the policy excess of £150 they said they would pay £87.23 to settle 
Mr As claim. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr A referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint shouldnt be upheld. They believed the market value was fair 
and it was reasonable for Admiral to settle the claim on a proportionate basis. They also said 
it was fair for Admiral to settle the claim with a cash settlement rather than offering a 
replacement car. Mr A disagreed and said he wants Admiral to return or replace his car 
because the amount of money theyve offered isnt enough for him to get one.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, it has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not currently 
intending to uphold Mr As complaint and Ill explain why. 
Valuation of the car
Where a car has been damaged or stolen, the terms of the policy say Admiral can decide 
how to settle a claim, they can choose to repair the car or pay a cash sum to replace the car. 
In the event Admiral decide to make a cash sum, the policy terms say the most we will pay 
is the market value of the car less any excess. The policy terms define market value as: 
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. 
In this case, Admiral has decided to settle the claim by making a cash sum and as 
explained, the policy terms allow them to do so. Admiral has determined the market value of 
Mr As car to be £805 but Mr A is unhappy with this.
At this point, I think its important to explain my role when looking at complaints like this is 
not to provide an exact value of Mr As car. Instead, I must consider if the amount offered by 
Admiral is fair and reasonable and in line with the terms of the policy. To do this, I check 
motor trade guides and consider whether the insurer has made a reasonable offer in line 
with them. I may also consider other information such as retail and private adverts. However, 
our service tends to place more weight on the guides as theyre based on nationwide 
research of likely selling prices. 
I have considered the trade guides for Mr As car and I find Admirals valuation of £805 to be 
in line with the guides so Im satisfied their market valuation is reasonable. 
Admiral have acknowledged they made an error when initially determining the market value 
and they have paid £50 compensation to Mr A for this incorrect information. In light of the 
circumstances, I consider this to be a fair amount as they quickly identified and corrected 
their error. 
Undisclosed motoring offences
Admiral has said they wont be paying the full market value because Mr A didnt tell them 
that he had two motoring offences at the time of buying the policy meaning he failed to give 
them accurate information. Where such allegations are made, this is referred to as a 
misrepresentation. The relevant law which applies is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012  which I will refer to as CIDRA. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance policy. It sets out several considerations for deciding whether the 
consumer failed to do this and, if it did, the options available to the insurer. The 
considerations include whether:
- the consumer took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation;
- the information was important to the insurer and, if it had been given, would it affect 
whether a policy was offered on its terms, known as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
If the policyholder made a qualifying misrepresentation without taking reasonable care then 
we consider whether they did so deliberately or recklessly, or carelessly. Ive addressed 
each of these considerations in turn.Did Mr A take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation?
Its important when considering this question to decide if the insurer asked a clear question 
when the policy was taken out. Mr A applied for the policy online and Admiral said the 
relevant question asked of Mr A was as follows.
In the last 5 years, has the driver had any motoring offences, including fixed 
penalties, convictions, disqualifications, or any pending prosecutions?.
They said Mr A answered no. This is a common question asked by insurers so I believe its 
more likely that this wouldve been asked during Mr As application. I consider this question 
to be a clear. Admiral also said there was a help box which provided a further explanation of 
what this question meant if Mr A needed further guidance.
While investigating the claim, Admiral discovered Mr A had two motoring offences dated July 
and November 2018. Given the offences were dated within a short time, one within five 
months and the other within one month, before he bought the policy in January 2019, I 
wouldve expected Mr A to remember these offences and to make Admiral aware. 
Mr A said he told Admiral about his offences but based on the policy schedule that was sent 
to him after he took it out online, there is no mention of motoring offences therefore I dont 
believe Mr A made Admiral aware. Once in receipt of the policy documents, Mr A was asked 
to let Admiral know if the information was incorrect but he didnt correct them. 
So, I think Mr A was asked a clear question about motoring offences and he didnt take 
reasonable care not to misrepresent the facts when answering this question. 
Did Mr A make a qualifying misrepresentation?
Admiral has provided evidence which showed had Mr A told them about the offences, they 
wouldve offered him the policy but it wouldve cost him a lot more, over £1,700. Im satisfied 
this wouldve applied to all consumers, not just Mr A. On this basis, I believe a qualifying 
misrepresentation has been made in accordance to CIDRA.
Was the misrepresentation deliberate, reckless or careless?
Having determined a qualifying misrepresentation had been made, CIDRA says the insurer 
may take action depending on whether it was deliberate, reckless or careless. In this case, 
Admiral said it considered Mr As misrepresentation to be careless and I think this is 
reasonable based on what Ive said above. In this situation, the insurer may proportionately 
reduce the amount to be paid on a claim if they wouldve offered a policy for a higher 
premium. This is what Admiral has done here. As Mr A only paid approximately 29% of the 
premiums, had he made Admiral aware of his motoring offences, they have decided to settle 
his claim on the same the proportionate basis. I think this was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
 
SummaryOverall, I am satisfied Admirals settlement figure of £805 is in line with the market value of 
Mr As car at the time of the theft. Further, theyre entitled to settle the claim by paying a 
cash sum and deducting the policy excess from the settlement amount. I also accept that it 
was reasonable for them to make a proportionate settlement based on the misrepresentation 
he made. Finally, the £50 compensation Admiral has already paid to Mr A is fair so I wont 
be asking them to do anything more to put things right.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, Im not currently intending to uphold Mr As complaint.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman