DRN-4319341
The complaint
Mr M complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AAUICL) decision 
to decline his alternative accommodation claim under his home insurance policy. He also 
complains about his contents being taken and not returned within a reasonable time.  
What happened
Mr M says, in January 2023, a pipe burst in his home causing damage. He says he was left 
without water, electricity or heating. Mr M says his clothes and bed also suffered water 
damage. He says AAUICL didnt provide alternative accommodation (AA) even though he 
couldnt sleep on his bed  so he had to sleep on a sofa at his friends house. He also says 
AAUICL took most of his clothes to look at restoration. So, Mr M complained about these 
points. AAUICL responded and explained the surveyor and drying specialist that attended Mr 
Ms home didnt highlight any requirement for AA on his claim. They said Mr Ms property 
had the required amenities that would deem the property habitable. They said the claims 
team had offered to replace the bed and bedding for Mr M when he explained he couldnt 
remain in the property due to water damage to his bed. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. She thought AAUICL had made errors in their 
handling of the claim and recommended they pay Mr M the costs incurred in living with his 
friend and to arrange alternative accommodation while repair work is ongoing. She also 
recommended they reimburse Mr M the costs of the dehumidifiers and the electricity costs of 
running them and pay £500 compensation. AAUICL responded and explained they were 
looking to go with the investigators recommendations, but they havent yet responded to 
confirm agreement, so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. Theres no dispute an insured event has occurred, and I can see the claim 
has been validated. The main area of dispute relates to AAUICLs decision to not provide 
AA. So, Ive looked to see whether their decision is fair and reasonable. 
Mr Ms policy does provide cover for AA if his home cant be lived in due to an escape of 
water event. The information shows a surveyor attended Mr Ms home on 26 January 2023 
and noted there wasnt a requirement for AA. The report says, The policy holder advised he 
is currently staying with a friend as he cannot stay in the house with the damp etc. Once the 
carpets have been stripped out and drying equipment installed the policy holder should be 
able to stay at the property. The report notes the approximate duration of drying works to be 
three weeks. 
AAUICL appointed an agent - who Ill refer to as company D - to manage the drying works 
and contents claim. Their report notes most rooms have been affected except for the toilet 
and a box room, as well as most of the kitchen. It says the carpets have been dried by Mr M 
using a wet vacuum machine and wet textiles have been collected for restoration. It notes 
three dehumidifiers were set up on 31 January for the electrician to power them on once the 
electricity is back on. An electrician then attends the following day and reinstates the 
electricity and switches the dehumidifiers on. Theres a further visit on 25 March and the 
notes say company D delivered all the textiles back to Mr M. Theres then a visit on 12 June 
and the report notes the drying was complete and a drying certificate is issued. 
I note AAUICL say their claims team referred the AA request on 21 February after Mr M 
requested it. Their notes say AA wasnt reviewed previously because it wasnt highlighted as 
being needed by the surveyor. I acknowledge the surveyors report does suggest AA isnt 
required, but AAUICLs claim notes refer to a call with Mr M on 19 January  a day after the 
date of loss - where Mr M describes the water damage, and the call handler notes Mr M 
does require AA as his home is uninhabitable.   
AAUICL say Mr M had heating, water, washing, cooking and bathing facilities so AA wasnt 
required. I can see Mr M raised a concern about the dehumidifiers and AAUICL say theres 
no reason why the property is uninhabitable other than the sound of the air movers and 
dehumidifiers The claim notes say Mr Ms home has a lot of water damage but neither the 
attending surveyor or company D have suggested the property is uninhabitable. I can see 
there was also a discussion about Mr M requiring a new bed, and the claims team offer a 
cash settlement for a replacement bed and bedding.
Having reviewed the information, I dont think AAUICLs decision to decline AA was fair. I 
say this for a number of reasons. Its clear the water damage was significantly worse than 
what the surveyor estimated. The surveyors expected timeframe for the drying to complete 
was three weeks  but the drying out wasnt completed until 12 June, which is a further 16 
weeks after the surveyors timescale. Claim notes provided by AAUICL dont suggest there 
were any unexpected and unforeseen problems during the drying out process. So, I think its 
therefore reasonable and safe to conclude the 19 weeks taken for the drying out works to 
complete was purely down to the significant extent of water damage. So, one point Ive taken 
into account is whether it was reasonable for Mr M to be expected to stay in a property which 
has taken almost five months to dry out. 
The key factor to determine here is whether Mr Ms home was habitable. I acknowledge 
AAUICL say Mr M still had access to working water, heating, electrics, as well as cooking 
and washing facilities. But, I think, in the circumstances of this case, its reasonable to take a 
broader approach than what AAUICL have taken. I say this because a property can be 
uninhabitable for a variety of other reasons  such as if its unsafe to be lived in. I think its 
important therefore to look more closely at Mr Ms circumstances to decide if it was fair and 
reasonable for him to live in his property. 
Mr M explains his home smells of damp, and its clear from the claim notes Mr M had also 
raised this with AAUICL. During the call on 19 January, Mr M also explains the walls are wet 
to touch and he can splash in the water present on the floor. 
I cant see AAUICL specifically took the damp smell into account when deciding whether to 
offer Mr M AA. When taking this into account, together with how long the drying process 
took, I dont think it was reasonable for AAUICL to take the view that Mr Ms home was 
habitable. I accept there might well have been cooking and washing facilities, but given the 
extent and smell of damp, I dont think this made Mr Ms home safe to be lived in. And its 
clear Mr M raised such concerns with AAUICL. Mr M has also provided photos which show 
the presence of mould in many of the rooms. So, I think this further supports my view about Mr Ms home being unsafe and unsuitable to live in. There might well be occasions where 
remaining in a property might simply be inconvenient, but that doesnt mean its 
uninhabitable. But in this case, Im satisfied Mr Ms home does potentially pose health and 
safety risks so his concerns about staying at his home are reasonable and justified. 
Given that AAUICL havent placed Mr M in AA, Ive thought carefully about the steps they 
should take to put this right. And I think, in the circumstances of this case, they should pay 
Mr M for the costs he has incurred as a result of staying in alternative accommodation with 
his friend. Mr M has described the costs he incurred to live with his friend over and above his 
usual weekly expenses  and this includes having to pay his friend to stay at his property  
which he paid in cash. Mr M says he was paying his friend £100 per week to live at his 
property. So, subject to Mr M providing evidence of this to AAUICL, I think they should pay 
Mr M the costs incurred by him, over and above his usual expenses, for the alternative 
accommodation with his friend. This should be paid from the date of loss. 
Generally, we would expect AA to be covered until the property becomes habitable or safe 
again subject to the limit in the policy. So, given the presence of mould in his home, I think it 
would be reasonable for AAUICL to now offer Mr M AA until such point as his home 
becomes habitable and safe again. And, during the period AAUICL arent able to find AA for 
Mr M, they should continue paying him for any costs incurred, over and above his usual 
expenses, in having to stay at an alternative property, subject to Mr M providing evidence of 
this. I cant see any repair works have started yet. So I will take this opportunity to remind 
AAUICL of their duty, under the Insurance: Conduct of Business sourcebook 8.1.1R to 
handle claims promptly and fairly.     
The claim notes show company D took Mr Ms clothes for restoration. Mr M says this left him 
without most of his clothes  and I can see this was for many weeks. Theres a note on 
AAUICLs claim report which questions why Mr Ms clothes were taken as there doesnt 
appear to be any water damage to them.  They note the majority of the clothes couldve 
been cleaned and they question why Mr M allowed company D to take all of his clothing.     
Mr M says company D turned up and started putting his clothes into bags and didnt give him 
any advance warning of this to allow him an opportunity to retain some clothes. Mr M says 
he did question this but the representatives from company D who attended explained they all 
needed to be taken. Looking at the inventory prepared by company D, it does show a 
significant amount of clothing being taken by them. 
I acknowledge AAUICLs points, but I dont think its unreasonable to expect a customer to 
trust what theyve been told by an expert and contractor appointed by the insurer. And if Mr 
M was informed by company D his clothes needed to be taken, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Mr M not to have challenged this. So, given that it doesnt appear most of 
Mr Ms clothes needed to be taken, I think AAUICL have made an error here.  
I note AAUICL installed three dehumidifiers, but Mr M explains, to help speed things up, he 
hired two further dehumidifiers. Its clear Mr M was anxious to get things moving forward 
and, given the length of time the drying out process was taking, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for him to take this step. And that being the case, I think its reasonable for 
AAUICL to reimburse Mr M the cost of hiring the dehumidifiers. 
I can see our investigator asked Mr M for evidence in the form of an invoice, but Mr M wasnt 
able to locate this at the time. But if Mr M is able to locate this, I think its reasonable for 
AAUICL to reimburse the costs Mr M incurred for this. Theres no dispute that Mr M wasnt 
living at home between the date of loss to the point the drying out works were complete. 
And, following the incident, the electricity was reinstated on 1 February  which is when the 
dehumidifiers were switched on. Mr M confirms AAUICL have paid towards his electricity 
costs, but he says the payment doesnt cover the full charges incurred for the dehumidifiers. 
So, as Mr M explains the only electricity being used during this period was for the dehumidifiers, AAUICL should reimburse all electricity costs incurred for the period the 
dehumidifiers were in use. 
Ive also considered the impact of the errors on Mr M. Firstly, theres the inconvenience to 
him of having to continue staying with a friend because of his claim for AA being declined. 
This has continued for many months. In addition to this, theres the trouble and 
inconvenience to Mr M in not having most of his clothes for five weeks. So, I think its fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances for AAUICL to pay Mr M compensation of £500.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that AAUICL have made errors in their handling of Mr Ms claim, so they 
should take the following steps:
Subject to Mr M providing evidence, pay Mr M the costs incurred by him, over and 
above his usual expenses, for living with his friend in alternative accommodation, 
starting from the date of loss until AAUICL are able to find alternative accommodation 
for Mr M.
Arrange alternative accommodation for Mr M while repair works are being carried out 
and until such point as his home becomes habitable and safe again. 
Reimburse Mr M the costs of hiring dehumidifiers, subject to Mr M providing AAUICL 
with an invoice confirming the cost. If this is evidenced and paid, then AAUICL should 
add 8% simple interest to this amount from the date the invoice was paid by Mr M to 
the date of settlement. 
Reimburse Mr M for the electricity costs of running the dehumidifiers, subject to Mr M 
providing a bill showing the charges incurred. 
Pay Mr M compensation of £500 for the trouble and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited 
must take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman