DRN-3938333
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with what U K Insurance Limited did after he made a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2021 Mr R contacted UKI as he wanted to make a claim on his policy relating to the 
professional negligence of solicitors whod previously acted for him. Once relevant 
information had been received from him, UKI instructed one of its panel solicitors to consider 
whether the claim had reasonable prospects of success as required by the policy. 
The panel firm had difficulties in advising on this because of limited information but said in 
October there were likely to be grounds to send a letter of claim. It provided a draft to Mr R in 
December 2021. However, later that month UKI responded to a request for information the 
panel firm had made two months previously. After reviewing that the firm advised the claim 
didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. 
Mr R complained to UKI about the handling of his claim in June 2022 (following previous 
complaints to the panel firm). UKI accepted there had been a delay in it providing information 
the firm requested. It agreed it hadnt looked into a point hed raised about the actions of the 
panel firm. It followed up on that and other points with the firm. And it paid Mr R a total of 
£300 in recognition of the inconvenience he was caused by what it got wrong. 
Our investigator said the prospects assessment from the panel firm was properly written and 
reasoned and from a qualified solicitor. And it was reasonable of UKI to have relied on this. 
There had been a delay in it providing documents to the panel firm and in following up on a 
point Mr R raised. But he thought the compensation it had already offered did enough to put 
things right here. 
Mr R didnt agree. He was unhappy with the panel firm who he said had mishandled his 
case. Theyd agreed to send a letter of claim in 2021 but changed their position in January 
2022. He thought UKI should have done more challenge why this was and why he wasnt 
told earlier that an element of his claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate Mr R is unhappy with the actions of the panel firm in this case. But that isnt 
something Im able to consider. The actions of the solicitors acting in their legal capacity 
arent something that our rules allow us to look at. The solicitors are independent 
professionals with their own regulator and complaints procedures. I can see Mr R has raised 
concerns about the actions of the solicitors with them and has been provided with responses 
and referral rights to the Legal Ombudsman if he remains unhappy. 
What I can consider is whether there have been any failings on the part of UKI including
whether it acted appropriately once Mr R brought concerns about the actions of the
panel firm to its attention. And its a requirement of Mr Rs policy that a claim must have 
reasonable prospects of success. The policy defines that as a better than 50% chance that 
you willobtain a successful judgement and recover your losses or damages or obtain any 
other legal remedy we agree.
In this case UKI referred Mr Rs claim to panel solicitors for a legal assessment of those 
issues which is what Id expect it to do. And the opinion from those solicitors in January 2022 
was the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success.  I can see that opinion includes 
why that applies to the element of Mr Rs claim hes focussed on in correspondence with us 
(a deduction from the settlement made by the previous solicitors). 
After that opinion was provided to Mr R he didnt provide a contrary legal opinion in 
response. He did raise concerns with UKI which focussed on the deductions element of the 
claim. I think it acted correctly in raising these with the panel firm who provided further 
clarification of their position on that. Their professional opinion was a court would likely find 
Mr R had signed a form of authority for that deduction to be made. In my view the panel 
firms assessment is properly written and reasoned and from someone qualified to give it. 
And I think UKI acted reasonably in relying on that assessment to conclude the policy terms 
as they relate to prospects of success hadnt been met. I dont see it needs to pay for a 
further assessment of this as Mr R wants. 
However, I do think UKI caused some delay to the progress of Mr Rs claim. The panel firm 
requested information from it to help carry out its assessment of prospects at the start of 
October but it doesnt appear a response was provided until mid December. And UKI has 
acknowledged it didnt initially look into one of the points Mr R raised when he made contact 
with it. I appreciate that will have been frustrating for Mr R but I think the total compensation 
UKI has paid (of £300) is a reasonable way of recognising the impact on him of what it got 
wrong. 
I know Mr R feels UKI should have done more to challenge the assessment reached by the 
panel firm and looked into what he thinks was a change in its position on prospects. But it 
did what Id expect here. It raised his concerns with the panel firm (albeit there was a delay 
in relation to one point which Ive already considered). And the panel firm provided 
responses to those points including an explanation as to what led it to change its position on 
the claims prospects of success (the receipt of information from UKI in December 2021). 
I appreciate Mr R may disagree with what it said but even if the panel firm didnt have new 
evidence which led it to change its position on the deductions element of the claim that 
would be failing by it and not UKI. Similarly, if it should have made the position on this 
clearer to Mr R at an earlier date that would also be its responsibility. I dont think UKI 
needed to look into this issue further; it took reasonable steps in response to the concerns 
Mr R raised and paid compensation for the delay it caused in the claim being moved 
forward. My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman