DRN-3862491
The complaint
Mr R complains Metro Bank PLC added his details to a fraud marker database.
What happened
Mr R received a £1,500 payment into his account. The sender of the payment told their bank 
the payment was fraudulent, and that bank passed this message on to Metro.
Metro blocked Mr Rs account but didnt initially say which transaction had caused the block. 
Mr R contacted Metro several times and had to go to branch to withdraw money. Mr R says 
he couldnt pay his bills, insurance was cancelled and £700 was withheld.
Mr R complained to Metro and it sent a final response on 30 March 2018. Metro said it had 
blocked Mr Rs account in line with its terms and conditions.
Mr R continued to contact Metro and it sent a further final response, dated 9 April 2018. In 
this final response Metro told Mr R fraudulent money had been paid into his account and 
said which specific transaction this was.
Metro advised Mr R to speak to the sender. Metro also asked Mr R to provide evidence of 
what the payment was for.
Mr R contacted Metro again, in 2021, and Metro sent a further final response, dated 19 May 
2021. Metro said it wouldnt remove the fraud marker it had loaded against Mr Rs name, 
wouldnt release the £508 it withheld but would release some interest.
Metro said it should have released the interest earlier and offered £25 in compensation.
Metro sent a fourth final response on 29 June 2021, where it said the evidence about the 
payment Mr R had sent in wasnt enough to remove the marker. Unhappy with this response 
Mr R brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things and thought Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator thought the payment into Mr Rs account was raised as fraudulent as part of a 
dispute between Mr R and the payer.
Because the investigator thought the payment in wasnt fraudulent, they said Metro should 
remove the fraud marker.
And because the investigator thought the payment in wasnt fraudulent, withholding the £508 
seemed unfair. The investigator thought Metro should repay this to Mr R with 8% interest 
from the date it was withheld.
The investigator also thought this fraud marker had caused Mr R significant distress and 
inconvenience and thought Metro should pay Mr R £800.
Mr R thought the £800 wasnt enough to compensate him for the distress hed been caused. 
Mr R had newly opened accounts closed, insurance cancelled, and finance applications 
rejected. Mr R had also had some serious health problems.
Metro didnt think it should remove the marker or pay Mr R any compensation.
Since there was no agreement from either Mr R or Metro, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide things. I agreed, in part, with the investigator, and issued a provisional decision.
My provisional decision
Ive seen the evidence from Metro that the £1,500 payment into Mr Rs account was raised 
as fraudulent by the sending bank.
I think Metro was, under the terms and conditions for Mr Rs account, allowed to block the 
account. This block was to protect both Mr R and Metro from any further fraudulent activity 
or loss.
I dont think Metro did anything wrong by blocking Mr Rs account, even though I know this 
will have caused considerable inconvenience for Mr R. This inconvenience flows from a 
reasonable decision by Metro to block the account.
I can see Mr R contacted Metro several times, to find out what was wrong and try and 
unblock his account. This contact continued after Metros first final response.
Mr R was contacting Metro to ask which transaction caused the block. From Metros notes I 
can see Mr R called Metro 23 times between 27 March 2018 and 7 April 2018. Mr R also 
sent in a letter dated 11 April 2018.
Metro sent a second final response on 9 April 2018, stating exactly why it blocked Mr Rs 
account and which transaction caused the block. Metro also asked for further information 
about the payment.
Im satisfied Mr R received this final response. Mr Rs letter on 11 April 2018 was likely sent 
before hed received the second final response, it only references Metros first final 
response.
But Mr R stopped contacting Metro after 11 April 2018. I think this lack of contact is because 
he received the second final response soon after.
Metro clearly explained what Mr R needed to do, explain the circumstances around the 
£1,500 transaction. It doesnt appear Mr R did that. 
And looking at the amount of contact Mr R had made prior to this second final response, I 
think if Mr R didnt receive the second final response, or had been unhappy with it, he would 
have continued to contact Metro to find out what was wrong.
So, I think Mr R was given the opportunity to explain the payment hed received. And its 
clear Mr R knew he had recourse to this service, he mentions this in his letter in April 2018.
But Mr R didnt explain the transaction, or bring his complaint to this service, until 2021.
I dont think I can hold Metro responsible for any of the inconvenience Mr R was caused 
between 2018 and 2021. I think Mr R knew what he needed to do to get the fraud marker removed, but didnt do anything. I cant fairly hold Metro responsible for this.
When Mr R did bring his complaint to this service, the investigator looked into the £1,500 
transaction and who it was from. Mr R had previously received similar payments from a 
limited company.
Mr R says these payments were for work hed caried out and has sent in proof of this. I have 
no reason to disbelieve this. And none of the payments Mr R received from the limited 
company were reported as fraudulent.
The £1,500 payment Mr R received came from an individual. Mr R says this payment was 
also for work hed carried out and has shown proof of this. The individual Mr R received the 
payment from was the director of the same limited company Mr R had previously received 
payments from.
Its possible the sender sent the payment from the wrong account and didnt recognise it, or 
intentionally reported the payment as fraudulent. But, either way, I dont think theres enough 
evidence to say this payment was fraudulent.
The first thing Metro needs to do, to fairly load someone to a fraud marker database, is 
prove the payment is fraudulent. Because Im not persuaded this payment was fraudulent, it 
would be unfair for Mr R to continue to be loaded to a fraud marker database.
But this wasnt an easy thing to work out. And I dont think Metro was wrong to initially load 
Mr R to a fraud marker database. Metro had a message from the sending bank to say the 
payment was fraudulent and nothing to prove the payment was genuine from Mr R.
I think Metro was entitled to rely on the message from the other bank to load Mr R to the 
fraud database. And since this was the first payment Mr R had received from this individual, 
its reasonable Metro thought it was fraudulent.
Metro has said its possible Mr R was involved in unregulated investments. But this doesnt 
change the reason it loaded Mr R to the fraud database. This was because of a single 
payment in, which I dont think was fraudulent.
Regardless of Metros suspicions around the type of work Mr R was carrying out, Ive seen 
no evidence to suggest any other payments were raised as fraudulent.
Ive carefully looked at the evidence Mr R has sent in, and I dont dispute the loading caused 
significant inconvenience. Mr Rs sent in proof his insurance was cancelled, in November 
2018, and says this is because of the fraud marker he knew nothing about.
But I think Mr R did know about the marker at that point in time, and what to do to remove it.
Most of the other account declines and mortgage issues also happened before early 2021, 
so I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Metro responsible for this inconvenience.
Mr R has also supplied medical records, and the effect on his mental health. Whilst I cant 
draw a direct causation between the fraud marker and Mr Rs poor mental health, I dont 
think I need to.
Mr Rs medical records show he experienced poor metal health, initially, in 2019. This is 
after I think Mr R was aware of the marker. I dont believe it would be fair to hold Metro responsible for this.
Metro withheld £508 from the £1,500 payment Mr R received and has since returned this to 
the bank it came from. Metro received an indemnity for the money, and since it thought the 
payment was fraudulent, it was reasonable to return it.
But I dont think the payment was fraudulent, so I think its now unfair for Metro to withhold 
this money from Mr R. And since Mr Rs been deprived of this money, its reasonable Metro 
pays interest on this amount.
In Metros third final response it said it should have released interest from Mr Rs account to 
him much sooner than it did. To apologise for this, Metro offered Mr R £25, this seems a 
reasonable offer to make for not paying Mr R his interest. But Mr Rs also been deprived of 
the interest he was owed, so I think it would be fair to pay interest on this amount too.
Responses to my provisional decision
Metro didnt have anything to add to my provisional decision.
Mr R said Metro didnt tell him about the fraud database loading in 2018. Mr R says he only 
found out in 2021 and came straight to this service.
Mr R says it doesnt make sense he wouldnt come to this service sooner, if hed known 
about the fraud database loading. Mr R says not knowing why his account was blocked 
caused a downturn in his mental health, and it took some time to get better.
Mr R also says the £25 compensation is not enough for all the calls, trips to branch and 
letters or the effect this had on his mental health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand its very hard for Mr R to prove a negative. Theres nothing Mr R can do to 
prove he didnt get Metros final response dated 9 April 2018. Mr R says he would have 
taken things forward had he known earlier.
And I accept Mr R brought his complaint to this service soon after he received information 
from the fraud database company and Metros final responses in 2021.
But I still think Mr R received Metros final response in April 2018. As I said in my provisional 
decision, Mr R was contacting Metro often throughout March and April 2018, then stopped 
around the date Metro told him to supply information about the £1,500 payment.
And in Mr Rs letter to Metro in April 2018 he told Metro hed bring his complaint to this 
service, but didnt. So although Mr R brought his complaint to us in 2021, I think he knew he 
could in 2018, but chose not to.
Mr R says not knowing what was going on resulted in a downturn in his mental health. 
Again, I dont dispute this. But because I think Mr R received the final response which clearly 
told him what to do, I cant fairly hold Metro responsible for this.
Mr R says the compensation payment is far too small to compensate for all the trips to 
branch, letters, calls and the effect it had on him. But Im not saying Metro should compensate Mr R for this  the £25 is for not releasing some interest sooner.
I think Metro acted fairly when it blocked Mr Rs account, it had been told a payment he 
received was fraudulent. And Metro was allowed to review Mr Rs account, during which time 
it would be limited in what it could tell him.
So, although there were many calls made by Mr R, along with trips to the branch, I dont 
think Metro could have told him what was going on, with the specific detail he needed. But 
Metro did, quite quickly, tell Mr R hed been loaded to a fraud database and what to do next.
I dont think Metro needs to compensate Mr R for the calls, letters and trips to branch.
And because I think Mr R received the final response telling him hed been loaded to the 
fraud database, I dont think Metro needs to compensate him for the effect this loading had.
My thinking around the fraud database loading itself hasnt changed, nor has the return of 
the money to Mr R.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Rs complaint and Metro should:
remove Mr Rs details from any fraud marker databases its loaded him to
refund £508
pay 8% simple interest per year on the £508, from the date it blocked Mr Rs account 
to the date of settlement
pay Mr R the interest it withheld, if it hasnt already done this
pay 8% simple interest per year on the interest Metro withheld, from the date it 
blocked Mr Rs account to the date of settlement
pay Mr R £25 compensation, if it hasnt already done this
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman