DRN-3764634
The complaint
Miss G has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrote to inform her that her insurance policy 
covering unemployment was being cancelled.
What happened
Miss G took out the cover with HSBC to protect her mortgage repayments in the event of 
unemployment. HSBC wrote to her on 21 April 2022 informing her that the insurer had taken 
a decision to no longer provide that particular product and that the policy would therefore be 
cancelled on 26 August 2022.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint because the insurer had made a business 
decision to withdraw this policy and HSBC had provided Miss G with sufficient notice of the 
cancellation, in line with the policy terms.
Miss G disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G takes the view that the insurer should fundamentally not be allowed to cancel 
existing policies. Although shes said that its probably because it no longer wants to provide 
unemployment cover for people in the public sector, the insurer has withdrawn the product 
altogether, affecting all of its policyholders, regardless of what sector they work in.
HSBC was the seller of the policy and is also the administrator, but it is not the insurer. So in 
this decision Im only looking at whether or not HSBC acted fairy in its administration of the 
policy. Having said that, I will just add that this service would not normally involve itself in the 
commercial decisions of insurers in deciding to offer or withdrawn particular products.
The policy terms allow the insurer to cancel the policy at any time and sets out the minimum 
notice that must be given. When HSBC wrote to Miss G on 21 April 2022, it advised that the 
policy would be cancelled at midnight on 26 August 2022. It therefore provided more than 
120 days notice and so was in compliance with the terms and conditions of the policy. The 
letter also signposted Miss G to where she could find advice on alternative cover if she still 
wanted unemployment insurance.
I appreciate that Miss G is upset as she wishes to maintain unemployment cover. However, 
looking at HSBCs role in this matter, I consider that it has acted fairly. Had Miss G become 
unemployed prior to the policys cancellation date, the policy would still have covered her. 
And the notice period she was given gave her plenty of time to find an alternative policy so 
that there was no gap in cover.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman