DRN-3502253
The complaint
Mrs C complains that MBNA Limited hasnt helped her reclaim a payment she made to a 
merchant. 
What happened
In March 2020, Mrs C paid a refundable £50 deposit to a company Ill call S in order for her 
son to attend a photoshoot. Mrs C was told the purpose of the shoot was to establish her 
sons suitability for professional modelling work. Mrs C says that S told them her son had 
been successful and would be able to obtain paid modelling work. She says S pressured 
her into paying for a modelling portfolio for her son. 
The cost of the portfolio was £1,500. Mrs C paid an initial payment of £500 using her MBNA 
credit card, the £50 deposit shed paid to secure the photoshoot was also used towards the 
total cost. The remaining £950 was to be paid by way of a fixed sum loan agreement from S. 
Mrs C was required to make nine payments of £105.56 over nine months. 
As soon as Mrs C and her son left the photo studio, she says that they did some research 
online and found that they had likely been scammed by S. Mrs C contacted MBNA to ask it 
to cancel the £500 credit card payment. MBNA told her it couldnt cancel the payment and 
Mrs C would have to raise a dispute once the payment had gone through. 
Mrs C then raised a dispute with MBNA and asked for the money to be returned to her on 
the grounds that she had been the victim of a scam. MBNA responded to say that it had no 
grounds to seek a refund of her payment from S. It said this was because Mrs C hadnt paid 
for the services in full and her contract with S said that no services would be provided until 
full payment was received. MBNA said there wasnt anything to indicate S wouldnt have 
provided the promised goods and services to Mrs C. 
Mrs C wasnt happy with that outcome and complained to MBNA saying it had treated her 
unfairly and that it was unreasonable to ask her to make further payments to S when it was 
clear they were operating a scam. MBNA didnt uphold her complaint and said that it couldnt 
assist her further in recovering the payment she made. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think MBNA had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in not refunding the payment to Mrs C.
Mrs C didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the ways in which MBNA could have sought to recover the payment Mrs C made was 
using a method known as chargeback. A chargeback is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants. These disputes are dealt with 
through the relevant card scheme rules. In certain circumstances, the process provides a 
way for MBNA to ask for a payment Mrs C made to be refunded. Those circumstances 
include where the goods or services arent supplied, not as described, or misrepresented by 
the company Mrs C paid. 
However, a chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. S would be entitled to defend any 
chargeback claim made by MBNA. And if it did so, the chargeback wouldnt succeed. Where 
a chargeback is defended, MBNA can ask for the card scheme to arbitrate in order to make 
a decision as to whether it ought to succeed or not. 
It's important to highlight that there is no obligation on MBNA to process a chargeback 
through the card scheme even where Mrs C asks them to. However, I would consider it good 
practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and there is a reasonable 
prospect of success. In this case, MBNA didnt submit a chargeback because it didnt think 
there was any grounds to do so, nor did it consider there would be any reasonable prospect 
of success. Having considered the available evidence and circumstances, I agree with 
MBNA and Ill explain why. 
As Ive set out above, there are limited circumstances in which a chargeback can be 
submitted. The reason for the chargeback would need to fit within one of the relevant 
chargeback rules. Ive already highlighted the three most appropriate reasons which might 
apply to Mrs Cs payment. However, I dont think any of those would have had any 
reasonable prospect of success. 
The contract Mrs C signed with S sets out that goods and services wont be provided until 
Mrs C pays for them in full. Mrs C hadnt done that, so it follows that she cant reasonably 
argue that S was at fault for not providing her with the goods and services. Further, Mrs C 
hasnt put forward any persuasive evidence or explanation as to how the goods or services 
she agreed to purchase were not as described, especially as she hadnt received them yet. 
Lastly, Im not persuaded that shes adequately demonstrated the goods or services were 
misrepresented to her either. For example, shes not demonstrated that S wouldnt or 
couldnt provide her with something that was promised prior to her entering into the contract. 
Mrs C has provided us with online articles which suggest other members of the public have 
reported S practices as a scam. However, it doesnt automatically follow that Mrs C was a 
victim of a scam. The issue here is that Mrs C has never given S the opportunity to fulfil the 
contract as she never made all the payments that were due. If S wasnt yet required to 
provide goods or services to Mrs C (because she hadnt fulfilled her part of the contract), I 
dont think there were any reasonable prospects of success in attempting a chargeback on 
the grounds that goods/services were not provided, as described or misrepresented. This is 
because S could still have done all of these things if Mrs C had given them the opportunity to 
do so. 
Mrs C says that it is unreasonable to suggest that she should have to pay a company in full 
that had scammed her. While I accept what Mrs C says, theres insufficient evidence to say 
she was more likely than not a victim of a scam. And in any event, even if she was, MBNA 
are limited to following the card scheme rules when processing a chargeback. I cant see 
that any chargeback that might have been attempted would likely have succeeded. 
Therefore, I dont think MBNA acted unfairly or unreasonably in not attempting a 
chargeback. 
MBNA could also have a considered Mrs Cs claim for a refund under s.75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. The general effect of s.75 is that if Mrs C has a claim for breach of contract 
or misrepresentation, she can bring a like claim against MBNA provided that certain 
conditions are met. For completeness, Im satisfied the relevant circumstances were met here. However, for much the same reasons as to why I dont think a chargeback would have 
been successful, I dont think MBNA acted unfairly or unreasonably in turning down her 
claim under s.75. 
This is because Mrs C hasnt demonstrated there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by S. Mrs C didnt give them the opportunity to provide the goods/services 
under the contract so I cant reasonably say there was a breach of contract by S. Further, for 
the same reasons Ive set out previously, Im not persuaded there was a misrepresentation 
by S either.
Mrs C says that S is now in liquidation and it therefore cant ever provide the services it 
agreed to provide. Mrs C has provided an email from S which says that S is going through 
liquidation. However, she has also provided additional emails which suggest that isnt the 
case. Further, there appears to be no official records indicating that S has or is in the 
process of liquidation. In any event, the reason S hasnt provided Mrs C with the 
goods/services under the contract is because Mrs C doesnt wish to pay the total price of the 
contract to them. While I understand her reasons for taking that stance, it does mean that 
I cant reasonably say that MBNA acted unfairly or unreasonably when it declined her 
request for a refund of the payment she made. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman