DRN-1715488
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold her a whole of life policy.
The complaint has been brought by a representative who Ill refer to as L.
What happened
In 1994 Mrs P was advised to set up a whole of life policy that provided an initial sum 
assured of £50,000 and included escalation for the first five years. The policy premiums 
started at about £53 per month and were invested in a managed fund.
Policy reviews took place in 2004 and 2014. On both occasions Mrs Ps premiums remained 
the same  at about £79 per month  while the sum assured reduced to about £39,000 and 
£36,000 respectively. 
L complained on behalf of Mrs P to Phoenix Life in August 2019 about the sale of the policy. 
They raised concerns about the recommendation of a unit linked whole of like policy when 
Mrs P didnt have any pension provisions. And that the adviser didnt establish her attitude to 
risk or assess affordability in retirement. L said this had left their client with a policy with a 
reducing sum assured unless she chose to pay a higher premium.
Phoenix Life didnt uphold the complaint. They said the paperwork completed at the time of 
sale shows Mrs P wanted life and critical illness cover. And given she maintained the policy 
for 25 years, this wouldnt be expected from a consumer that didnt understand or need the 
cover, or who felt affordability in retirement would be a problem. They also added that, while 
their representative didnt specifically assess Mrs Ps attitude to risk, the policy is primarily 
designed to provide life and critical illness cover and therefore isnt intended as an 
investment vehicle. But their fact find did record Mrs P as having a cautious attitude to risk. 
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but she 
didnt think the policy was mis-sold. She said that having a pension provision wasnt a 
prerequisite for having life and critical illness cover. And, as Mrs P had four children at the 
time the policy was set up, having protection seemed a viable option for her. Our investigator 
also explained that Mrs P couldve cancelled the policy at any time or, reduced the sum 
assured to pay a lower premium. But shed paid the normal premiums since the policy was 
set up in 1994 and during her retirement, so it didnt suggest it was unaffordable to her.
L disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L has questioned why a unit linked whole of life policy was recommended to Mrs P when she 
didnt have any pension provisions in place at the time. While retirement planning is an 
important consideration for many, the main purpose of the policy was to provide cover in the 
event Mrs P died or suffered from a critical illness. And it isnt a requirement for someone to have pension provisions in place for them to be able to take out a protection policy. Instead 
they can be set up independently of pension (or long-term saving) policies and provide 
valuable benefits. 
In this case, its recorded  from when the policy was set up  that Mrs P didnt have any 
existing savings or that she saved on a regular basis. And Ive not seen anything to show 
Mrs P had any existing protection policies in place or that her employer provided such 
benefits. So, given Mrs P had four children, it doesnt seem unreasonable that she would 
want to set up a policy to protect her family in the event of her death or if she suffered from a 
critical illness. 
I understand however that L argues a whole of life policy linked to the stock market wasnt 
suitable for Mrs P as she was exposed to too much risk and her ability to afford the policy in 
retirement wasnt assessed. L also says the reviewable nature of the policy meant Mrs P 
was asked to pay a higher premium or risk having lower cover  and that this wasnt 
explained to her. They think a term assurance policy wouldve been a more suitable option 
as it wouldve been cheaper and Mrs P wouldve been able to fix both the level of cover and 
the premium.
Ive carefully considered this and while there are advantages to term assurance policies, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for a whole of life policy to be recommended or that it was 
mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The whole of life policy provided Mrs P with life and critical illness cover to the initial sum 
assured of £50,000. But rather than provide fixed benefits, it gave Mrs P greater flexibility as 
she was able to increase or decrease the level of cover  and thereby the premiums payable 
- to suit her circumstances. And although the cost of maintaining the same level of cover 
increased when the reviews took place, the sales documentation shows that the reviews 
were explained to her. So I think she ought to have understood how the policy worked and 
that the cost of cover could change.
The main purpose of the policy was protection but Mrs P also benefitted from it having an 
investment element. This meant, unlike a term assurance policy, that if a claim wasnt made 
against the policy but instead surrendered early then Mrs P would receive a cash lump sum 
(dependent on factors such as investment performance). The premiums were invested in a 
managed fund and so were exposed to some risk. But while Mrs P was recorded as having a 
cautious attitude to risk, I dont think a managed fund was unreasonable given this wasnt 
the primary purpose of the policy. 
The sales documentation also confirms that unit fluctuation and early surrender was 
explained to Mrs P. Because of this, I think Mrs P ought to have understood the policy 
valuation could change and that she had the option of early surrender. So, if the premiums 
became unaffordable then she was able to cancel the policy or alternatively she couldve 
decreased the level of cover to reduce the premiums. I think its also worth noting that had 
Mrs P been advised to set up a term assurance policy then, in the event of her not being 
able to afford the premiums, her only option wouldve been to cancel the policy and she 
wouldnt have benefitted from any cash payment.
Ive taken in to consideration Ls point that Mrs P wasnt a financial expert and that she didnt 
understand the stock market. But I dont think Mrs P had to have an in-depth knowledge of 
the stock market for this type of policy to be suitable. And from what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
the adviser explained the features of the policy to give her enough of an understanding as to 
how it broadly worked.For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it was unreasonable for the whole of life 
policy to be recommended to Mrs P. And so, it follows that I dont think the policy was mis-
sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman