DRN-2823810
The complaint
 Mr S is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
 On 22 December 2020, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW. He paid a £7,182 deposit, and the agreement was for £27,308 over 
60 months; with monthly repayments of £536.76. At the time, the car was almost three years 
old and had done 14,816 miles.
Mr S contacted the supplying dealership within 30-days of taking possession of the car, to 
complain that the bodywork was dented, and the panels misaligned. And he asked to reject 
the car. But BMW said hed viewed the car twice before he signed the agreement, and the 
car had passed an approved check. So they said he couldnt reject the car.
Mr S wasnt happy with BMWs response, and he brought this matter to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said hed seen photographic evidence of the issues with the car, and he 
didnt think that any reasonable person would expect this level of damage given the age and 
mileage of the car. So he didnt think this could be classed as wear and tear, and instead 
made the car of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
He also said that, while Mr S had viewed the car before buying, this didnt mean that he 
couldnt exercise his short-term right to reject under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). 
And Mr S, by asking to reject the car within the first 30 days, Mr S had exercised this right. 
Because of this, and because the investigator thought that the car wasnt of a satisfactory 
quality when supplied, he said that Mr S should now be allowed to reject the car.
The investigator recommended that BMW cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay, 
and refund Mr Ss deposit plus interest. But, because Mr S had had use of the car while it 
was in possession, he didnt think that BMW should refund any payments. He also said that 
BMW werent responsible for the £818 Mr S had paid for repair cover and GAP insurance, as 
these were paid directly to the dealership and didnt form part of the agreement with BMW.
BMW didnt agree with the investigator. They said the CRA doesnt allow a consumer to 
reject goods where the goods were examined before sale, and where that examination ought 
to reveal any faults. They also said it was a used car which, to the dealerships knowledge, 
hadnt been involved in any accident or collision, and that Mr S hadnt provided any proof 
that it had.
Because BMW didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, BMW are responsible.  Whats 
satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given 
the price, description and other relevant circumstances. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless BMW can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was faulty 
when Mr S took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be 
fair and reasonable to ask BMW to put this right.
The photographic evidence Ive seen shows a slight misalignment on the bonnet, above the 
nearside headlight; and that the nearside door is misaligned and rubbing on the nearside 
front wing when used. This has damaged the paintwork on the nearside front wing.
Ive also seen an job card from the dealership, which shows they completed the following 
bodywork repairs  LHF Door touch up & Alignment, LHF Wing touch up, Adjust Bonnet for 
poor front gaps, PDR Bonnet, PDR LHR qtr panel and LH A Pillar Trims (Refit). 
Although the job card is undated, BMW have confirmed this work was carried out, at no cost 
to Mr S, on 15 February 2021. And, in an email dated 14 March 2021, Mr S said he was still 
unhappy with the bonnet/bumper gaps when comparing the car top another of the same 
make and model. So he rejected the repairs.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied there was an issue with the car when it was supplied 
to Mr S, although this has now been fixed. Given the age, mileage, and cost of the car when 
it was supplied to Mr S, although a certain amount of minor damage could be expected, I 
dont think that any reasonable person would expect misaligned panels to be present.
Mr S believes the car was involved in a previous accident, although I havent seen anything 
that shows me this was the case. Ive seen the dealership did a check to see if the car had 
been written off due to a previous accident, which it hadnt. But this check wont show if the 
car had been involved in a previous accident. The only way the dealership would likely know 
this is if it had been declared by the previous owner. And Ive seen nothing to show me that 
any previous accident was declared. So I cant agree that the dealership failed to tell Mr S 
that the car had been involved in a previous accident. 
BMW have said that the dealership carried out an approved check before the car was 
supplied to Mr S. And this shows the car was of a satisfactory quality. Ive seen the checklist from the approved check carried out by the dealership on 18 
December 2020. While this includes checking the paintwork for damage and defects, it 
doesnt include any checks for body panel misalignment. And the checklist shows that the 
car passed the check for paintwork damage. Even though the photographic evidence clearly 
shows paintwork damage. And the dealership touched up the paintwork as part of the 
bodywork repairs.
The checklist also shows that the car passed the check for interior trim damage, security, 
alignment and discolouration etc. But the dealership, when they completed the bodywork 
repairs, also refitted loose interior trims.
Based on the above, its clear that the approved check didnt pick up issues that the 
dealership fixed only weeks later. Because of this, I dont consider the approved check to be 
reasonable to rely on in the circumstances.
BMW have also argued that Mr S doesnt have the right to reject the car under the CRA 
because he inspected it twice before he signed the paperwork. So he accepted any defects 
or damage that were present.
Mr S viewed the car twice before signing the agreement. The first viewing took place on 18 
December 2021, which Mr S said was a short viewing in poor light. He also said that 
thinking back to the viewing the car the first time the sales person [sic] did seem to steer my 
attention away from the areas of concern.
The second viewing, and test drive, took place on 22 December 2021, the day Mr S signed 
the paperwork. This took place during poor weather conditions. And, as Mr S was test 
driving the car, he didnt use the nearside door, so wouldnt have noticed it rubbing on the 
bodywork during operation. 
If Mr S had had the opportunity to examine the car thoroughly, and in good light and weather 
conditions, then Id agree with BMW on this point. But this didnt happen. So I dont think that 
section 9(4)(b) of the CRA applies in this instance as the examinations that took place (given 
the time and conditions) wouldnt have revealed the issues Mr S later found.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr S. He raised the issue with the dealership the day after having the car, and he 
asked to reject the car on 4 January 2021. This was within the time limit for the short-term 
right to reject, as laid down in the CRA. And the fact that the car was later repaired (after 
BMW had refused the right to reject) doesnt alter this fact. As such, Im satisfied that Mr S 
should still be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
 Mr S has had use of the car while its been in his possession, so I think its only fair that he 
pays for this usage. And the monthly repayments hes paid shouldnt be refunded to him. So, 
BMW should now arrange to do the following:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay.
collect the car at no cost to Mr S.
remove all adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Ss credit file.
refund the £7,182 deposit.
pay 8% simple yearly interest* on the above, to be calculated from when Mr S made 
the payments to the date of the refund.* HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW to deduct tax from the interest amount BMW 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted If he asks for one. Mr S 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman