DRN-2405156
The complaint
Mr T has complained about three buy-to-let (BTL) properties he has mortgaged with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
The background to this complaint is extensive and goes back many years. This service has 
previously dealt with complaints from Mr T about these mortgages, and as our investigator 
explained we wont look at those complaints again. We also cant consider anything that has 
happened other than this complaint Mr T made to Barclays.
The issues were considering under this complaint reference number are that Mr T says:
He wasnt kept updated with regard to Barclays intentions with the properties.
He sent some online messages but received no response.
His complaint wasnt responded to within eight weeks.
This is one of two complaints that were dealing with, the other has the same complaint 
points but relates to the residential mortgage Mr T holds jointly with his wife. Ill be issuing 
separate decisions on the two complaints as they relate to different relationships with 
Barclays, albeit both decisions will be issued at the same time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. Ill also 
keep my comments to the three points I listed above. I wont be commenting on anything 
else as part of this complaint.
Barclays accepted in its response to the complaint that it handled things poorly. It apologised 
for not responding to Mr Ts online messages, and for the delay in logging his complaint. For 
that it offered a total of £150 across all the mortgages (that is the three BTLs that are the 
subject of this complaint, and the residential mortgage complaint that weve got set up under 
a separate reference number). It also confirmed that the litigation action is on hold and there 
was no set date for that to recommence. It said any payment proposal needed to be 
discussed on the phone and couldnt be done by email or through the online messaging.
It's not in dispute that Barclays should have responded to Mr Ts online message, and it also 
shouldnt have taken so long to respond to his complaint. Barclays has apologised for both 
those failings and offered compensation and, having considered everything, Im satisfied that 
is a fair offer.
Barclays confirmed that litigation action was on hold, and so Mr T wasnt prejudiced by not 
being kept updated. I understand there was a separate issue with one of the properties, but I 
cant consider that as part of this complaint. That would have to be a matter for Mr T to raise 
directly with Barclays, if he hasnt already done so.
As I said, Im limited under this complaint to what I can consider, and having looked at those 
points Im satisfied Barclays did enough when it apologised to Mr T, explained that things 
were on hold and that Mr T would need to discuss it over the phone, and paid £150 
compensation (across all the properties) in recognition of its service failings. I cant take any 
wider context or anything else into account, as Mr Ts other complaints are being looked at  
or have been looked at  separately.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
paid fair compensation to Mr T for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman