DRN-4452991
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about Covea Insurance plcs handling of a claim they made under 
their home insurance policy.
Covea is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Covea has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, 
in my decision, any reference to Covea includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In mid-2019, Mr and Mrs T made a claim under their home insurance policy with Covea after 
an escape of water caused significant damage to the downstairs of their property.
Covea accepted their claim and offered a cash settlement, which Mr and Mrs T say was too 
low to cover the cost of repairs. Covea appointed a loss adjuster to deal with the claim and 
arrange repairs. 
In around March 2020, Mr and Mrs Ts downstairs furniture was put into storage and their 
flooring was removed, leaving a concrete base. Repairs couldnt go ahead as planned due to 
restrictions as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
The repairs were delayed until October 2021. Mr and Mrs T and their family were placed in 
alternative accommodation while the works were carried out. Mr and Mrs T say they were 
told it would take around nine weeks to complete the refit, but it took over five months. In 
April 2022, Mr and Mrs T noticed that the new floor was lifting in the same place as it was 
during the initial issue. Mr and Mrs Ts return to their home was delayed until June 2022. Mr 
and Mrs T say Coveas contractors didnt investigate the issue, so they had to engage with a 
leak detection company who confirmed there was no leak. The issue was with the laying of 
the floor.
Mr and Mrs T raised a number of concerns about the quality of the work carried out by 
Coveas contractors. Covea instructed another loss adjuster to review the work. The loss 
adjuster visited the property in July 2022 and agreed the works had not been completed to a 
satisfactory level. The loss adjuster recommended that Mr and Mrs T be allowed to use their 
own preferred contractors to complete the works. However, Covea decided to give the 
contractors who had carried out the work the opportunity to rectify it.
In November 2022, Covea decided that the loss adjusters who had been brought in to review 
the previous works should support the second refit. It was agreed that the repairs could be 
carried out by Mr and Mrs Ts preferred contractors and work began in March 2023. Mr and 
Mrs T say works were delayed by a few weeks because Covea hadnt paid the contractors 
on time.
Covea acknowledged that the service it and its contractors had provided was below standard 
and the time it had taken to reach the stage it had was unacceptable. It paid Mr and Mrs T a 
total of £2,200 in response to their complaints.
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. After they 
brought their complaint to our service, Covea offered to pay them a further £800. Mr and  
Mrs T didnt think this was enough to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience 
theyd experienced.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ts concerns and thought their complaint should be 
upheld. She recommended Covea increase the total compensation award to £4,000.
Covea disagreed with our investigators outcome. It felt a total of £3,000 was sufficient 
compensation for the delays. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Covea has acknowledged that its poor handling of the claim has had a substantial impact on 
Mr and Mrs T. So, the only matter that remains is whether the £3,000 it believes is fair 
compensation is enough to put things right.
Mr and Mrs T say the leak was first identified in November 2018. However, it looks like they 
made the claim in August 2019, after arranging for the leak to be fixed and allowing time for 
the property to dry. 
According to the information Covea has provided, it made Mr and Mrs T a cash settlement 
offer of £3,187 (less the excess) in August 2019. Mr and Mrs T provided estimates of the 
work shortly afterwards, and a second quote was requested. Covea has noted that Mr and 
Mrs Ts costs reflected market rates, but it wanted to check what its suppliers would charge. 
Covea appointed its own suppliers at the end of October 2019.
Covea has acknowledged that Mr and Mrs M raised two complaints about their own costs 
being declined but these werent logged or dealt with. 
Covea has also noted that its agents who were initially dealing with the claim werent 
proactive. This appears to have resulted in a delay at the beginning of the claim. Despite 
Covea appointing its own contractors at the end of October 2019, drying works werent 
arranged until March 2020.
Mr and Mrs Ts furniture and flooring was removed shortly before the first Covid-19 lockdown 
of March 2020. They were left in a property with no flooring or downstairs furniture for 
around eighteen months. 
Mrs T says she was working from home even before the pandemic. She wasnt able to use 
her downstairs office, so needed to work on her bed in her bedroom. The only furniture Mr 
and Mrs T had downstairs was camping chairs and tables. The family spent most of their 
time upstairs in their bedrooms due to the unpleasant environment downstairs. They werent 
able to celebrate or enjoy special occasions as they would have wanted.
Covea has noted that there was some unavoidable delay between August 2020 and July 
2021 because works couldnt start until the bathroom was repaired. From what I can see Mr and Mrs T were offered a cash settlement for the bathroom in September 2020 after they 
found someone to do the work. However, there was a delay in the work being carried out as 
the contractors doing the bathroom repairs werent able to do internal work because of the 
Covid-19 pandemic.  
According to Coveas notes, Mr and Mrs T confirmed that repairs to the bathroom were 
completed on 1 July 2021. However, the reinstatement works didnt begin until the end of 
October 2021. 
It seems that part of the delay here was because Mr and Mrs Ts alternative accommodation 
wasnt available. But Covea has noted that it should have offered to put the family up in a 
hotel so as not to delay the works.  
The works were initially supposed to take nine weeks. However, it looks like some further 
damage came to light. Following this, Covea has noted that the works were to be completed 
in mid-March but Mr and Mrs T were then told they wouldnt be done until mid-April 2022. 
In early April 2022, Mr and Mrs T noticed that the floor was lifting in the same place as it was 
before. However, they say Coveas contractors didnt do anything to investigate this, and Mr 
and Mrs T had to engage with a leak detection company, who confirmed in June 2022 that 
no leak was found. It seems that the issue was to do with the quality of the repairs that had 
been carried out by Coveas contractors.
As a result, Mr and Mrs Ts alternative accommodation needed to be extended and they 
werent able to return to their home until June 2022. Mr and Mrs T were fairly happy with the 
standard of alternative accommodation they were provided with. But theyve told us the 
distance from home made it difficult for their children to socialise and it was unsettling for 
their eldest child who was sitting exams.
Covea has acknowledged that the quality of the repairs was poor. The loss adjusters who 
reviewed the work reported that around £20,000 worth of snagging work needed to be 
completed as a result. Mr and Mrs T say the standard of work was so bad that it needed to 
be started all over again. 
The report confirming the initial repairs were inadequate is dated July 2022, but the second 
refit didnt begin until March 2023. There seems to have been a long delay in Covea 
approving the works to be completed by Mr and Mrs Ts own contractors. Covea has noted 
there was no justification for snagging issues taking so long to be rectified. 
Covea says some of the 4.5 years Mr and Mrs T have been living with this situation would 
have been taken up by the repair process. It says its offer of £3,000 takes into consideration 
the inconvenience and poor service they experienced for a 3.5 year period.
I appreciate that some disruption was always going to be necessary while repairs were being 
completed and this was made worse because of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, Mr and 
Mrs T have experienced sustained distress and inconvenience over several years. 
Mr T says he found he had to project manage the claim. He says he had very little contact 
from Coveas loss adjuster, and he had to speak to Covea two or three times a week. Covea 
has noted that Mr and Mrs T had contacted it and its contractors regularly for updates but 
there was no sense of urgency from the contractors involved. 
Whilst Covea has acknowledged lengthy delays and poor service, I dont think its fully 
considered the impact of the poor quality of repairs on Mr and Mrs T. It was extremely 
upsetting for them to find so many issues with the repair work after waiting so long for it to be carried out. I understand the works needed to be carried out all over again because the 
quality of Coveas contractors work was so poor. Mr and Mrs T had to go to a lot of trouble to 
show that the standard of work was inadequate and to get Covea to accept that the second 
refit should be done by their own contractors. They also had the additional disruption of 
having to move out of their home a second time.
Whilst the £3,000 Covea has offered might be sufficient compensation for the delays in 
progressing the claim, I dont think its enough to fully recognise the impact its poor service 
has had on Mr and Mrs T. They werent only inconvenienced because of the length of time 
the claim has gone on for. Theyve experienced additional disruption and distress because 
the works werent carried out adequately the first time around. 
Considering the above, I think a total of £4,000 would be reasonable to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs T have experienced. I understand Covea has 
already paid Mr and Mrs T £2,200, so it should pay them a further £1,800.
Putting things right
Covea should pay Mr and Mrs T £1,800 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and direct Covea 
Insurance plc to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman