DRN-3823340
The complaint
Miss R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost when 
she fell victim to a scam. 
Miss R is making her complaint with the assistance of a solicitor. To make my decision 
easier to read, I refer mainly to Miss R. I do this even where it was her representatives rather 
than Miss R who said or did something. I mean no discourtesy in taking this approach.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ive provided an 
overview of the key events here. 
Miss R connected with an individual who Ill refer to as H. They found each other through an 
online dating website for people that share the same faith. Miss R explains that they wanted 
the same things, having discussed marriage and raising children together. Sadly, the person 
Miss R was interacting with did not have genuine intentions. She was really interacting with a 
fraudster who tricked her when investing in cryptocurrency. 
Between 1 March 2021 and 15 March 2021, Miss R made six faster payments adding up to 
more than £26,000 from her NatWest accounts to her account with a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange. On 1 March 2021, Miss R made a successful tester payment of a 
penny to ensure the funds arrived in her account at the cryptocurrency exchange. She then 
spoke to the banks advisor on the phone to approve a follow-on payment of £999.99. The 
next day, Miss R made a £4,000 payment in branch. She made a £2,500 payment online on 
4 March 2021, followed by two payments totalling over £18,000 on 15 March 2021. Miss R 
followed Hs instructions to move the money from her cryptocurrency account to what she 
thought was a trading platform. 
Miss R explains that she spoke with H on a video call and the person in the video matched 
the person in the photographs shed seen. She explains they also spoke on the phone and 
by using instant messaging. Miss R says it was over two months after she first connected 
with H before the conversation turned to investments. She explains that H had presented 
himself to be respectful and loving. H told Miss R that he was planning to meet her and her 
family. Miss R contacted the hotel where H said he was going to be staying and confirmed H 
had made a reservation.
H had told Miss R that he was self-employed and working in finance. Miss R explains that 
she was following Hs instructions and making the investments as they wanted to buy a 
property together. 
H told Miss R the minimum investment amount was £7,500 and he offered to make the 
amount up for her if she could pay him back the next day. H then said he had put $30,000 in 
Miss Rs trading account by mistake. H told Miss R that she needed to pay this money back 
as it belonged to his client. Miss R says H pressured her by saying that his client was going 
to take him to court and that he could end up in prison. Miss R reluctantly agreed to send 
money to the client but asked H to confirm in writing that the money was to be a loan. H sent 
Miss R an email confirming that hed pay it back within a month. 
Miss R became worried when H stopped answering messages as it got closer to the time 
when they were meant to meet. Miss R was contacted by someone claiming to be Hs sister 
who said that H was in jail and needed money. Miss R asked which prison H was in, but the 
person refused to tell her. Miss R contacted a friend and explained the situation. Miss Rs 
friend was concerned, and suggested H was not real. Miss R tried to withdraw money from 
the trading platform but was unable to. Miss R realised shed been scammed and contacted 
NatWest for help. 
NatWest tried to recover the funds that had been sent but none remained. It said it was not 
responsible for the loss. Miss R made a complaint. NatWest maintained its position that 
there had been no bank error when it issued its final response to Miss Rs complaint. It said 
the bank had done all it could to try and obtain the funds back. It pointed out it had acted on 
Miss Rs genuine instructions to process payments she wanted to make. It did not consider it 
was responsible for the loss she went on to incur, pointing out that the transactions that were 
not stopped did not trigger any alerts at the time they were being made. 
Miss R referred the complaint to this service, where it was looked into by one of our 
Investigators. But he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that the 
Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code that was set up to 
provide protection for customers that fall victim to authorised push payment scams did not 
apply because Miss R was sending money to another account in her own name that she 
held and operated. He looked into whether NatWest should have done more to protect 
Miss R from financial harm from fraud.
He noted that NatWest had been concerned about the payment of £999.99 Miss R wanted to 
make. He felt NatWest could have asked more probing questions when it spoke to her. He 
also thought that the payments Miss R was making on 15 March 2021 were out of character 
for her. But he wasnt persuaded that the scam would have unravelled if the bank had given 
Miss R better information about the key features and risks of cryptocurrency investment 
scams. He thought it would have been very difficult for the bank to have stopped Miss R 
from losing the money because she believed she was in a genuine relationship with H and 
had no concerns about the situation. 
Miss R disagreed. Her representatives pointed out that she had not been provided with a 
cover story and that she would have been open and honest with the bank if it had probed the 
situation, which would have led to the scam being uncovered. They said NatWest had failed 
Miss R by not giving appropriate scam warnings and the bank should have done more to 
protect her. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me for a final 
decision.
My further investigation  
When the complaint was referred to me, I contacted Miss Rs representatives to ask further 
questions. I asked to see copies of the phone messages she exchanged with H to gain an 
idea of how often they spoke. 
I asked about the conversation Miss R had with NatWest before the payment of £999.99 was 
released and provided an extract where Miss R expressed regret about becoming involved 
with cryptocurrency. I also asked why Miss R had told the bank that a friend had introduced 
her to cryptocurrency trading.
Miss Rs representatives provided the available records from her phone. They explained that 
H had told Miss R that investing was his business and his livelihood right from the outset when they first connected in December 2020, but it was not until 21 February 2021 that H 
requested that she signed up to a cryptocurrency exchange. 
Miss R said that H threatened to end the relationship if she was not serious about investing 
and making money, causing her a great deal of upset and distress because H had previously 
asked for her hand in marriage and they had made future plans. She explained that she told 
the bank it was a friend that had introduced her to investing as she didnt feel it was 
appropriate and was uncomfortable saying it was someone she was in a relationship with 
that had introduced her to this. 
Miss R reflected on my comments about the call recording Id heard and said that she was 
regretting the complications of the situation, such as having the funds blocked. She said she 
wanted the payments to successfully pass through because she genuinely believed the 
relationship would have ended if she did not invest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in debate that Miss R has fallen victim to a particularly cruel scam. She was deceived 
by someone she thought she was in a serious relationship with. She thought she was 
making investments that were going towards building their future together, but H had no 
intention of fulfilling the promises he had made. But in my role, I can only consider whether 
NatWest fairly and reasonably has any responsibility to refund some or all of the money that 
Miss R transferred from her NatWest accounts to her account with a cryptocurrency 
exchange.  
The starting position at law is that banks and building societies are expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that their customers authorise them to make. Theres no debate 
that Miss R made the disputed payments herself. This means they were authorised 
payments and Miss R is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, even though she 
did not intend for this money to go to fraudsters. 
But, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider NatWest 
should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks and building societies are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. Whilst NatWests first obligation is to 
follow Miss Rs payment instructions, the bank should be on the lookout for out of 
character account activity which can indicate that a transaction could involve fraud or 
be the result of a scam. If a payment instruction is unusual, NatWest should intervene and ask more about the reasons for making the payment before processing 
it. 
Against this backdrop, Ive considered whether NatWest should have identified that Miss R 
was potentially at risk of falling victim to fraud when she made these payments, or otherwise 
done more to protect her.
NatWest has said that it considered the payment of £999.99 that Miss R wanted to make 
was out of character for her and it has accepted the payment represented a potential scam 
risk. It has provided a copy of the call recording where it intervened to ask Miss R questions 
about the transaction. It did not consider any of the other payments Miss R went on to make 
to be unusual. 
Our Investigator thought the larger payments Miss R made on 15 March 2021 were unusual 
and uncharacteristic for her. She was spending more than £18,000 in a day, which was a 
sudden increase in her typical spending and a marked change from her usual activity. 
I agree that NatWest should have intervened to ask Miss R more about these two larger 
transactions before processing them. Its not fair to expect NatWest to play amateur 
detective. There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. But I would 
expect the bank to provide suitable warnings about common scam risks to help their 
customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue making a payment. 
But whilst I broadly agree that NatWest ought to have intervened on more than one 
occasion, this in and of itself isnt enough for me to say that the bank should refund the 
money Miss R went on to lose. I also need to be persuaded that the banks intervention at 
the key moments would have made a significant difference and ultimately prevented the 
payments from being made. When making that decision, I have to base my findings on the 
balance of probability  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened, taking 
into account what I know from the information that is available to me.
Miss R spoke with NatWest just after shed made a tester payment for a penny. Miss Rs 
representatives consider this to be a lost opportunity to have uncovered the scam. I accept 
the point that even though Miss R wanted to send the money to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange, it doesnt automatically follow that her money was going to be safe, or that she 
wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud or a scam. At the time Miss R made these 
payments, I think NatWest had or ought to have had a good enough understanding of how 
these scams worked to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud. This includes 
that the victim often first purchases cryptocurrency and moves it on to the fraudster under 
the assumption that theyre moving it into their own wallet or account. Ive kept this in mind 
when considering Miss Rs case. 
Ive thought about the conversation Miss R had with the bank and considered what would 
have happened if NatWest had asked more probing questions at that time and whether it 
would have uncovered the scam. But I dont think it was unfair of NatWest to allow the 
£999.99 payment to leave Miss Rs account. The overall amount involved, at this point a 
total of £1,000, was not a particularly unusual or suspicious amount for someone to spend in 
and of itself. 
I am also mindful that not everything connected to cryptocurrency is automatically a scam. 
Miss R told the bank that a friend had introduced her to cryptocurrency investing. She did so 
without being specifically asked. When the advisor asked Miss R if the friend that introduced 
her to investing had set up the account or if she had shared any of the log in information, 
Miss R unequivocally and repeatedly answered no. She spoke clearly and confidently. In 
addition, Miss R and the advisor had a discussion about the banks transaction limits. Miss R said that she was not going to invest more than the £1,000 that she had sent that day and 
that she wanted to leave it as was until she trusted it and knew more about how it worked. 
Having listened carefully to the recording of the conversation, I dont think it ought to have 
been apparent that Miss R was falling victim to a romance scam and an investment scam 
simultaneously. Im not persuaded that Miss R said enough during this call that reasonably 
ought to have alerted NatWest that she was being scammed. 
Miss R has also said she would not have felt comfortable telling the bank about how she 
knew H or what the dynamic between them was. I do understand this. Its a private and 
personal matter. But it does mean that I cant fairly blame NatWest for not uncovering that 
the friend Miss R spoke about was someone that shed met through an online dating website 
as I am not persuaded that Miss R would have shared the full details of how H was known to 
her even if she had been directly asked. Against this backdrop, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the bank to have concluded that Miss R was not at risk of financial harm as 
a result of fraud at this point. This means the bank didnt do anything wrong when it acted on 
Miss Rs instructions and sent the payment of £999.99. 
From what we now know, its clear that the situation Miss R was in evolved. Although Miss R 
wasnt making payments from the same account, she was spending considerably more 
money across all of her NatWest accounts and she was sending it all to a cryptocurrency 
exchange, which represented a clear change in her overall activity compared to her usual 
spending. So I have thought about what would have happened if NatWest had intervened 
again at a later stage when Miss R was making large payments in quick succession and 
whether this would have uncovered the scam.
But, on balance, Im not persuaded better intervention with the bank at the key moments 
would have been enough to stop Miss R from sending this money. In reaching that position, 
I have placed weight on both the recording of the conversation Miss R had with NatWest 
before the payment of £999.99 was released as an indication of what Miss R would have 
most likely said, along with what Miss R has described about the situation she was in. Ive 
considered everything Miss R has said carefully, but even if more probing questions had 
been asked and a clear fraud and scams warning was provided, I am not persuaded they 
would have stopped the scam.
Im not satisfied Miss Rs answers to further questions about how she came to be involved in 
this investment would have uncovered the true nature of this interaction. Given what shes 
said, I think its more likely than not that Miss R would have been guarded about how she 
knew H. I also think she would have wanted the payments to be made come what may 
because of what she has described about wanting to maintain the relationship with H on 
good terms. 
In addition, I do not think Miss R would have considered the possibility of H deceiving her 
into making the payments even if the bank had more explicitly highlighted this as a potential 
risk. Miss R placed trust in the website that she met H on as it requires users to be verified. 
They had spoken on the phone, through voice notes and during a video call where Miss R 
was able to confirm that the person on screen was the same person from the photographs.
Whats more, Miss R had confirmed Hs upcoming reservation directly with a hotel. 
I consider this to be a powerful and persuasive piece of manipulation by H. 
Making firm plans to visit Miss R gave the romantic connection she thought they had 
established further legitimacy. Overall, I think it is more likely than not that the later 
payments would have still been made even with better interventions and a reasonable level 
of questioning from the bank. Ive thought about whether NatWest ought to have refunded the loss for any other reason, 
and in particular, whether NatWest ought to have reimbursed Miss R under the provisions of 
the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model Code, which the 
bank has signed up to and was in force at the time Miss R sent the money. But the CRM 
Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. The CRM Code only covers 
scam payments when the funds are being transferred to another person and not to a 
consumers own account. In this case, Miss R sent the money to her own account held with 
a cryptocurrency exchange. This means I dont think NatWest is responsible for reimbursing 
her because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
Ive also thought about what NatWest did when Miss R reported she had been the victim of a 
scam. NatWest did try to recover the funds as soon as it learnt of what had happened. But 
because Miss R had already sent the money onwards, there were no funds remaining for the 
bank to attempt to reclaim. 
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for NatWest to refund Miss R 
because of the difficult situation she is now in. There is no legal obligation for NatWest to 
reimburse a vulnerable customers funds. But a bank can use its discretion and it remains 
good practice for NatWest to investigate what has happened and to consider whether it 
would be appropriate to reimburse some or all of the money on a case by case basis, 
especially in situations where it is clear that its customer has been the victim of financial 
harm as the result of a scam. 
NatWest is aware of the difficult situation Miss R has faced as a result of losing this money 
but concluded not to do anything further in this particular case. I have to be fair and 
reasonable to both sides in a complaint. I cannot fairly compel NatWest to do more when the 
relevant law, rules, codes and good practice do not say that it should.
Overall 
Im sorry to hear of what happened to Miss R. I do understand why she feels so strongly 
about this complaint. She was cruelly deceived by someone using faith and shared values. 
From what she has told us, she has lost not only her money, but her confidence in dating 
and making new connections. But I cant fairly hold NatWest responsible for the actions of a 
fraudster. I can only assess whether NatWest has any obligation to refund the money that 
was lost. 
Im satisfied Miss R isnt due a refund under the CRM Code. And in the circumstances of this 
particular case, I dont think Miss R would have been in a different position if NatWest had 
done more than it did to intervene. I also consider that the bank did all that it could to try and 
recover funds once it knew what had happened. 
As such, Im not persuaded that NatWest reasonably ought to have prevented or recovered 
this loss. This means I cant fairly say NatWest should have done more here or that it has 
any obligation to refund Miss R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Claire MarshOmbudsman