DRN-4261290
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group (Adrian Flux) mis-sold her a 
car insurance policy. She also complains about them sending her a letter informing her that 
her policy would be cancelled. 
What happened
Mrs T took out a policy through a broker, Adrian Flux. Mrs T says she believed she was 
taking out a fully comprehensive policy. She says she was then involved in a non-fault 
incident where a third-party drove into her car while she was stationary and then drove off - 
so she made a claim against her policy. Mrs T says the claim was declined because the 
policy only covered third party, fire and theft. Mrs T complained the policy had been mis-
sold. Mrs T also says, because the third-party left the scene without exchanging details, she 
tried claiming on the legal expenses cover of the policy and complained that she hadnt 
received any pay-out for this. Mrs T also complained about a letter shed received from 
Adrian Flux which said her policy would be cancelled. 
Adrian Flux responded and explained Mrs T arranged cover during a call in April 2020. They 
said they offered third party, fire and theft cover and, while Mrs T did ask about fully 
comprehensive cover, she decided it was more financially beneficial to proceed with the third 
party, fire and theft cover. They said they offered additional add-ons to the policy including 
personal accident cover. They said the level of cover was also confirmed in the policy 
documents issued that year as well as further renewals. They said as the damage to Mrs Ts 
car following the incident isnt covered under her policy, theyve contacted the insurance 
intermediary for Mrs Ts legal expenses cover to instigate a claim under the uninsured loss 
aspect of her legal cover. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs T. He thought Adrian Flux hadnt mis-sold Mrs T a 
policy and didnt uphold the complaint relating to the legal expenses cover or about the 
cancellation letter. Mrs T disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs T will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Mis-sold policy 
Ive listened to a call recording of Mrs Ts call with Adrian Flux when first looking to take out 
a policy. Mrs T explains she wants to add a car temporarily to her policy and the call handler 
provides a quote for cover for one month and three months. Given the price, Mrs T agrees to 
be transferred to another team to discuss an annual policy. The next call handler then goes 
through a series of questions with Mrs T where she explains the value of her car is £800. 
The call handler provides a quote for a comprehensive policy and another for third party, fire 
and theft cover. Its clear the quotes given are higher than what Mrs T was expecting so the 
call handler explains theyll contact Mrs T the following day to see if they can get a better 
price.   
Mrs T then calls the following day to see if a more competitive price can be achieved. The 
call handler provides a quote of £461.99 for third party, fire and theft together with add-ons, 
which include personal accident cover. The call handler explains this means if Mrs T has a 
fault claim, then she would have to pay for her vehicle herself. Mrs T enquires about a 
comprehensive policy and the call handler explains the value of the car is £800, and the 
excess payable would be £300, so Mrs T would receive around £500 in the event of a claim. 
The call handler also explains the price of the comprehensive policy is also £300 more. The 
call handler explains the third-party, fire and theft cover would work out cheaper and Mrs T 
then says, Lets go for that for now and Mrs T explains she doesnt really make claims. The 
call handler then discusses additional add-ons which would then provide similar benefits to a 
comprehensive policy and says, apart from if you have a fault claim, you have to fix your 
own vehicle. Mrs T then agrees to take out this policy. 
I can see policy documents were then sent to Mrs T and this shows Mrs Ts type of cover as 
third party, fire and theft. Ive seen the renewal documents sent to Mrs T in 2021 and 2022, 
and this shows the cover as third party, fire and theft.  
So, taking this all into account, I cant say Adrian Flux have mis-sold the policy as being fully 
comprehensive. During the call where Mrs T decides to take out the policy the call handler 
does make it clear the type of cover Mrs T is taking out is third party, fire and theft. During 
the call also, the call handler specifically points out the difference between this type of cover 
and comprehensive cover and explains the cover being taken out by Mrs T means she 
wouldnt be covered for her own vehicle in the event of a fault claim. During the call, and 
after the call handler quotes a price for the third party, fire and theft cover, Mrs T enquires 
about a fully comprehensive policy. So, I believe this suggests Mrs T did understand these 
were two different types of cover. And by saying I dont really make claimsand I dont 
really hit people, I believe this suggests Mrs T did also understand the limitations of third 
party, fire and theft cover when compared to comprehensive cover. The policy documents 
which then follow for that policy year, and for the two renewals, all set out clearly the cover 
type as third party, fire and theft.   
Claim for personal injury and claim under legal expenses cover 
I cant see Mrs T has raised any injuries with Adrian Flux. In addition to this, and looking 
through the policy booklet for the personal accident section of Mrs Ts cover, this refers to a 
separate company who should be contacted in the event of a claim. So, I cant say Adrian 
Flux are responsible here or have otherwise acted unreasonably. If Mrs T does feel there are 
injuries she has sustained as a result of the incident, then I would refer Mrs T to her policy 
booklet setting out the steps she would need to take and the business she will need to 
contact to register a claim.  
In relation to a claim against the legal expenses section of Mrs Ts policy, the policy booklet 
says Mrs T will need to contact a specified company  who Ill refer to as company A. The 
policy booklet says company A have arranged the policy and it appears theyre acting as 
administrator of the policy as their contact details are listed in the event of a claim. Adrian 
Flux say theyve referred Mrs Ts claim to company A to instigate a claim under the 
uninsured loss aspect of Mrs Ts legal expenses cover. Adrian Flux say the legal expenses 
section of the policy doesnt provide cover against unknown third parties and as Mrs T 
wasnt able to obtain the third partys details, this is likely to be the reason for Mrs T being unable to utilise her legal expenses policy. Ive looked at the policy documents for the legal 
expenses cover and the Insurance Product Information Document says, under a section 
headed What is not insured?, Any claim where the opponent cannot be traced or 
identified. 
I can see Mrs T does have the third partys registration, and our investigator has referred 
Mrs T to a company  who Ill refer to as company M - wholl be able to provide her with 
details of the third partys insurance information. I can see Mrs T has already made enquiries 
with company M and theyve written to her to explain the next steps. Its not clear from the 
information what steps company A have taken or whether theyre able to take any 
progressive steps or take over these enquiries given that Mrs T does have the third partys 
registration. But I think Mrs T should refer the matter to company A to see if theyre able to 
assist. If company A arent able to assist given the limited third-party information available, 
then if Mrs T is able to get the further information she has asked company M for, she will 
need to refer this to company A. 
Letter cancelling the policy    
I can see Adrian Flux write to Mrs T to say theyre authorised by the insurer to act as their 
agents for the purposes of cancelling insurance cover. They say theyre writing to give notice 
that cover will be cancelled in seven days. Adrian Flux explain they needed to see a copy of 
Mrs Ts up to date driving licence as theyd received information to say it had expired. They 
say Mrs T contacted them asking for her policy to not be cancelled as she was in the 
process of obtaining this from the DVLA. Adrian Flux say they did then receive a copy of  
Mrs Ts updated driving licence, so the policy remained in force. 
Ive looked at the policy booklet and this does set out a requirement for Mrs T to notify the 
insurer, via Adrian Flux, about any changes which affect cover. The policy booklet goes 
further to say if any information provided isnt complete, then the insurer, via Adrian Flux, 
may cancel the policy. I acknowledge it was upsetting for Mrs T to receive the letter from 
Adrian Flux, but I think any potential issue around a driving licence expiring would 
reasonably affect cover. So I think Adrian Flux acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy in asking for information that Mrs Ts licence had been renewed  and then 
sending a cancellation letter when the information requested hadnt yet been received. I can 
see however this was resolved without any further issue.     
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman