DRN-3282428
The complaint
Ms K and Mr S complain that delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC caused them to lose a 
favourable interest rate on their new product as the mortgage offer lapsed before they could 
draw down the loan. They also had to pay a higher interest rate whilst they waited for their 
new mortgage offer to reissue. Ms K and Mr S would like the extra interest to be refunded 
and compensation for their distress. They consider Barclays responsible for costing them 
£5,000.
What happened
Ms K and Mr S had a mortgage with Barclays on a property and wanted to move to a new 
property with a mortgage from a different lender and let the existing property out on a new 
buy to let mortgage with Barclays.
Ms K and Mr S say that the delays by Barclays caused the mortgage offer to lapse in April 
2021 so that they had to continue to pay interest to Barclays on the follow on rate of 3.84% 
until they eventually completed in July 2021, instead of the buy to let rate of 1.48%. They 
feel they should be refunded this extra interest. Ms K and Mr S say that Barclays delay from 
16 March to 16 April in resolving the issue of a change of address was crucial to the failure 
to complete earlier.
Barclays says that the mortgage application was submitted through a broker on 16 October 
2020 and reviewed on 28 October 2020 when the broker was informed that Barclays 
required further information. Barclays say that this wasnt provided in a timely manner and 
the case wasnt offered until 15 February 2021, valid until 16 April 2021. Barclays says that 
there were two different amendments to change solicitors and a new offer issued to the new 
solicitors on 26 February 2021. Barclays says that on 12 March 2021, it was contacted by 
the original solicitors with Ms K and Mr Ss new residential address but Barclays responded 
to the firm it had on record that Ms K and Mr S had recently appointed. Barclays didnt 
amend the solicitors details until the end of March but failed to respond to the request about 
the change of address until after the mortgage offer expired on 16 April 2021. A new 
application was logged in on 10 May 2021 and completed on 29 July 2021. Barclays says 
that that the major reasons for the delays to completion were:
A four-month delay in the broker providing the information needed for the mortgage 
to be offered.
Ms K and Mr S changing their solicitors three times even when they were aware that 
they were on the follow-on rate.
Whist it accepts that it could have responded to the request for the confirmation of 
address change sooner which was uploaded on 3 April 2021, it says that this was 
during an unprecedented time for mortgages with the stamp duty holiday being 
extended and this would have resulted in the customer not completing before their 
offer expired in any case.
Barclays accepted it didnt respond to this complaint in time and offered compensation of 
£150 for that and £200 for not responding to the query from Ms K and Mr Ss conveyancer in 
early April.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part and that £500 
compensation more fairly represented the disappointment suffered by Ms K and Mr S. But 
he did not accept that Barclays should reimburse the higher interest charged as the main 
cause of the delay in processing the application lay with Ms K and Mr S. Ms K and Mr S 
disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator provided a timeline of the application which Ive summarised below:
Application submitted on 16 October 2020.
Barclays completed a full review on 28 October 2020.
Barclays requested further income documents and requested clarity on other issues
on 28 October 2020.
The broker failed to provide the correct documents/information, so the case wasn't actually
offered until 15 February 2021. The offer was valid until 16 April 2021.  
After issuing the offer - Barclays received two different amendments to the application
to change solicitors on 23 February 2021 and a second on 24 February 2021.
Barclays issued a new offer to the latest solicitor on 26 February 2021
On 12 March 2021, Barclays received correspondence from the original solicitors to state Ms 
K and Mr Ss new residential address and requesting confirmation that Barclays were happy 
with this.
Barclays responded to the solicitors it had on record on 18 March 2021 rather than the 
solicitors which had issued he request.
On 26 March 2021, Barclays received another email from the original solicitors who were 
newly appointed regarding the address and again on 31 March 2021. An amendment was 
also completed on this day to change the solicitors.
On 3 April 2021, Barclays received an email to confirm the amendment was completed to
change solicitors and requesting to issue confirmation to that firm that both
the correspondence and residential address be updated.
This was not actioned by Barclays and the offer expired on 16 April 2021. The solicitors sent
further chasers on 22 April 2021 and 30 April 2021 however the offer had expired at this
point.
A new application was logged on 10 May 2021 which was completed on 29 July 2021.
Ms K and Mr S say that they are not challenging the period before February and that the 
reason the documents werent provided early was that Barclays required a mortgage offer from their new lender on their main residence and so the broker didnt take any action until 
they got the new lender sorted which was the end of January and they say that the period 
from when the mortgage offer issued on 15 February was clearly Barclays fault.
I have to consider what fault lay with Barclays that Ms K and Mr S couldnt complete on their 
mortgage before the mortgage offer expired on 16 April 2021.  Barclays is a mortgage lender 
and Ms K and Mr S should expect a reasonable service from the lender. This mortgage 
application process lasted for an extended period of about six months. Thats longer than the 
normal application process. Although the survey was received on 11 November 2020, the 
mortgage offer didnt issue until February 2021. 
Ive read through the timeline of events and note that Barclays appears actively involved 
throughout. For example, on 4 November 2020, after receiving some documents from the 
broker, it asked for number of further documents, but these documents werent uploaded 
until 14 January 2021. On receiving the documents on 14 January 2021, the case was 
reviewed by an underwriter and further information was asked for on 15 January 2021. 
Documents were then received from the broker and on 28 January 2021, because of the 
information supplied the underwriter had further questions. There were several more 
relevant emails between the broker and the underwriter  including a request to consider a 
higher loan before the mortgage offer issued on 15 February 2021.
I would have thought from that stage the loan could have completed subject to the readiness 
of Ms K and Mr Ss conveyancer to do so. It was a remortgage rather than a new purchase. 
Im unsure why it didnt complete immediately although there seems to have been a change 
of solicitors on two occasions for some reason.
The fault claimed against Barclays is that it delayed in responding to a request to change the 
residential address on a mortgage offer. Barclays received an email on 12 March 2021 from 
the solicitors who were not then on record for Ms K and Mr S notifying and requesting an 
acknowledgement of Ms K and Mr Ss new correspondence address and Barclays 
responded by letter on 18 March to the solicitors who were on record for them. Whist that 
was unfortunate its understandable that Barclays would respond to the solicitors it had on 
record. Barclays accepts that when it later changed the solicitor, it didnt respond in a timely 
fashion to the firm and paid compensation for the distress caused by it.
My role is decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances and to decide whether it 
was Barclays fault that this matter couldnt complete before the mortgage offer expired. My 
view is that looking at the application process as a whole that Barclays conducted it in the 
main in an efficient manner. Ms K and Mr S say that the reason the documents that were 
asked for in November werent produced until January is that the broker didnt take action to 
progress the Barclays mortgage until the mortgage on their main residence had been sorted. 
But if I look at the email sent to the broker on 4 November 2021 from Barclays, it asks for a 
response to seven questions, none of which are replied to until January and only one of 
which refers to the new property. This is a complaint about delay and Ms K and Mr S are 
accepting that there was substantial delay on their part in progressing the application. In 
deciding on the basis of what is fair and unreasonable I would have difficulty in upholding a 
complaint about delay in favour of a party who accepts that there were responsible for a 
large part of the delay.
I accept, and Barclays has also, that the bank was responsible for a delay in April in 
responding to a request and given the reason that it was under pressure because of the 
approaching end of the stamp duty holiday. But this mortgage offer issued in February. It 
was a remortgage and so the solicitor could have asked for the funds in February if they 
were in a position to. It seems to me that if the request for the drawdown of the loan had been made in February that Barclays would have likely responded in time to drawdown the 
loan before the offer expired. I say this because Barclays did respond in March although to 
the solicitor who was no longer engaged by Ms K and Mr S. But if Ms K and Mr S are making 
the point that it was Barclays delay that caused them to miss out, I have to recognise that 
Barclays was not in control of the time to complete the remortgage from the date it issued 
the mortgage offer until they were asked to consent to a change of address. As I say Ive no 
information as to why the remortgage didnt complete during that period but clearly Barclays 
couldnt be held responsible for any delay during that period. The problem for Ms K and Mr S 
is that over the extended period of this mortgage application process, Barclays can only be 
held responsible for a short period of delay.
It seems to me that if the responses from Ms K and Mr S had been prompter or had the 
solicitors been able to complete soon after they received the mortgage offer, in my view the 
loan could have completed before the mortgage offer expired.  Although there may be valid 
reasons for the delays on the part of Ms K and Mr S, they werent the fault of Barclays and 
so I cant fairly fault Barclays for causing completion to be delayed until after the mortgage 
offer expired. Nor can I say that Barclays was at fault for any delay in having the new 
mortgage offer issued and the loan eventually being drawn down. There seems to have 
been some hold up in Ms K and Mr S making a new application but it should have been clear 
to them that as the existing mortgage offer had expired that a new application was required 
and I cant say that there were any unreasonable delays caused by Barclays in respect of 
the second application.
I know that Ms K and Mr S feel strongly about this but if I look at the process as a whole I 
cant fairly uphold this complaint but agree that in respect of Barclays failure to respond to 
their solicitor and failure to respond in a timely manner to their complaint that this would have 
been distressing for them and that  £500 represents fair compensation for that. On that basis 
I uphold this complaint in part.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Ms K and Mr S £500 less any money already paid to them
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay 
compensation of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman