DRN-3014016
The complaint
 G complains that it couldnt make an international payment using its bank, TSB Bank plc
(TSB).
What happened
 When its director was in the Netherlands, G attempted to make an international payment of 
£17,700 on 23 October 2020  to buy a caravan. It wasnt possible on that day. A payment 
was made from Gs account to the personal account of its director on 24 October 2020. He 
then made the international payment instead.
G complains that the delays werent acceptable. TSB staff were rude and unhelpful. A lot of 
time was spent on calls to TSB. And in the end, the only way to get things sorted out was for 
G to make a transfer to the personal account of its director, and he then made the 
international payment. This meant there were cost implications as the asset was bought in 
his personal name, and not the business. As a result of the stress brought on by the 
episode, Gs director lost his passport and therefore had to get an emergency replacement 
which cost £100  and he also had to re-book his flight back to the UK and pay for an extra 
nights accommodation.
TSB apologised and said that the initial failure of the payment was due to systems problems. 
And then, after that, Gs account was blocked by its anti-fraud systems because of the 
issues G was experiencing. These checks were necessary and did not add up to an error on 
TSBs part. But - TSB agreed that the service that G got wasnt up to standard and paid 
compensation of £125.
G brought its complaint to this service. Our investigator said TSB had acted fairly and its 
payment of compensation was about right for what happened. TSB had to have fraud checks 
in place  and their right to have these were included in the terms and conditions of Gs 
account. She agreed that the service TSB provided wasnt good, and the delays in making 
the payment was frustrating. She didnt think that TSB could be responsible for Gs director 
losing his passport  and in any case, as the complaint was brought by G, the affect of the 
loss of the passport was felt by Gs director, not G  so it wasnt something that we could 
consider.
G disagreed and asked that its complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
 I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a different view to our investigator here. In forming my view, Ive listened to all the calls 
between TSB and Gs director on 23 October 2020 and 24 October 2020. There were five 
significant calls  all for a very long time, totalling approximately two hours. I think that TSB 
should pay a higher level of compensation as a result of the initial systems issues which then 
led to the fraud block on Gs account  and for the service failings on the calls with Gs 
director.
Clearly, TSB, like all banks, have processes in place to prevent fraud. This is contained 
within their terms and conditions. These enable TSB to block payments if their security 
systems flag a payment as a possible fraud. They do this so they can carry out further 
checks to verify the payment. So  Im not disputing that aspect of what TSB did.
But in TSBs final response dated November 2020  they admitted that After reviewing the 
log held for your Internet Banking activity, multiple system processing errors have occurred 
which prevented you from completing an International Payment on the 23rd of October. I 
would like to apologise for the inconvenience you were caused that day, as well as any 
further impact to your business due to the one-day delay in completing any payments from 
your account. Therefore, without the systems problems, Gs payment wouldve been made 
on that day without any problem. This was confirmed in Gs second call to TSB on 23 
October 2020  when the call handler said there was a technical systems problem  and she 
had to refer this to a technical team who would get back to G in 48 hours time.
As things played out, G made multiple attempts to log on  without success and by the time 
that G called TSB on 24 October 2020  then a fraud block had been put in place. And  
therefore there were more delays and frustrations for G.
Turning to TSBs service failings. On Gs first call on 23 October 2020  the call handler tried 
to sort the payment out - without success - but then transferred G to the international 
payments department because they know more than I do about international payments  
but this was after almost 40 minutes. On the second call on 23 October 2020  the call 
handler said Gs director needed his personal ID number for her to make the payment. He 
didnt have this, so she asked Gs director if he could visit a local branch  but didnt know if 
TSB had a branch in the Netherlands  we would expect a member of TSB staff to know 
this. She also accused Gs director of being rude  while Gs director was frustrated, I dont 
consider he was at all rude. She also said a manager would call Gs back within two hours  
and Ive seen nothing to confirm this happened. On the third call on 23 October 2020  the 
call handler said she could make the payment (in contradiction to the second call), but that 
Gs director needed to send photo ID  which he did. She said there would be a four-hour 
turnaround and that this will be resolved by today  but when Gs director called the 
following day  this hadnt been done and the approval of the photo ID was still outstanding. 
It was later on 24 October 2020  that the photo ID was approved, and the block lifted. This 
enabled the transfer to be made to the personal account of Gs director.
So  in summary, Gs director was given mixed messages on the various calls he made. 
Each area seemed to have a different solution. And commitments made to resolve things 
werent honoured. A call back from a manager didnt take place. The calls were long and 
didnt resolve Gs problem.
Turning to the consequential loss of the passport of Gs director, the delayed flight and 
accommodation costs. I agree that as the complaint had been brought by G (and not its 
director), this is not an issue we can consider. But I would observe that even if it were, I dont 
consider this to be a direct cost of what happened and its not reasonable to expect TSB to 
meet these costs.
So  because of the initial systems problems of TSB in the first place  which led to the 
issues experienced by G; and the subsequent service failings of TSB  I consider that they 
should pay G a higher amount s already been paid, and so a further £375 should be paid.
Responses to the provisional decision:
G accepted my findings, although said that there would be further impacts on it in the future. I assume that here, G is referring to the possible tax issues. TSB said they were 
disappointed with the provisional decision but had no more to add.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On Gs comment, I cant consider unspecified future consequences of what happened. And 
so, this doesnt change my provisional decision. And so  my final decision is the same as 
my provisional decision, and for the reasons I gave in it.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc must pay compensation to G of £500  an additional 
£375 to the £125 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman