DRN-2136428
The complaint
Mr M has complained about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. Hes unhappy 
about the review of the sale of his annuity.
What happened
Mr M took an annuity with Prudential in 2009.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) carried out a review which looked at whether firms 
selling non-advised annuities had acted correctly. It considered whether customers had been 
informed about enhanced annuities and that customers could potentially get a higher income 
from an enhanced annuity from another provider by shopping around with the open market 
option (OMO).
After this review, the FCA directed that Prudential carry out a review of some of its sales. 
Prudential reviewed the sale of Mr Ms annuity as part of this wider review and found that he 
hadnt been given adequate information about the possibility of enhanced annuities or the 
OMO. 
Mr M was asked to complete a medical questionnaire and he responded setting out some 
medical conditions which affected him at the time of the sale.
Prudential reviewed this information and the annuity Mr M had but said that he hadnt lost 
out as a result of their mistakes. It said the medical conditions hed identified wouldnt have 
qualified for an enhanced annuity and the annuity he was receiving was more than the 
annuity he may have got with the OMO.
Mr M disagreed and made a complaint. Prudential didnt uphold the complaint and he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
The complaint was considered by an investigator, but he didnt think that it should be upheld. 
He explained that Prudential accepted that it hadnt given Mr M all the information it should 
have when he bought the annuity in 2009. Mr M had completed a questionnaire which 
detailed health conditions he had in 2009 which may have qualified for an enhanced annuity. 
Prudential had considered this information and reviewed the sale in line with the FCA 
guidance. Prudential said that the health conditions identified would not have qualified for an 
enhanced annuity and that Mr Ms actual annuity was higher than he would have achieved if 
he had used the OMO. Therefore, he had not lost out.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that he had been taking medication daily and had serious health 
conditions. The FCA had fined Prudential and accepted that customers were regularly being 
paid annuity rates which were ten per cent below the best rate available from alternative 
providers. He wasnt asked about his health or advised about the OMO at the time of the 
sale.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator. I dont uphold this complaint. Im satisfied that Prudential 
carried out a review of this annuity sale in line with the FCA guidance.
Prudential accepts that Mr M may have been suffering from ill health at the time of sale, but 
it says that the specific medical conditions hes identified wouldnt have qualified for an 
enhanced annuity. I have no reason to doubt what Prudential has said. Not every medical 
condition would usually qualify for an enhanced annuity. Enhancements are usually available 
for specific conditions, often by reference to a list. These conditions are mostly those which 
affect life expectancy. It wasnt under any obligation to offer an enhancement for any medical 
condition identified.
Prudential has also calculated the annuity Mr M could have expected with the OMO based 
on the guidance from the FCA. Using that calculation, it produces a figure that is lower than 
Mr Ms actual annuity. This means that hes not suffered any loss due to his not being 
advised to use the OMO and shop around for an annuity.
I have considered all that Mr M has said, and I do understand his frustration. Its true that the 
FCA fined Prudential and directed a review of certain annuity sales, including his. But this 
doesnt mean that every sale was flawed, or that every customer has suffered a loss. 
Prudential accepts that this sale was flawed, but its still necessary to consider if any failure 
by Prudential made any difference to the annuity he should have had. The question is, if the 
sale had been fully compliant would Mr M have received a higher annuity? The evidence 
here suggests that he wouldnt and so he isnt worse off.
Its not the role of this service to punish or fine a business. This service is not the industry 
regulator. Our role is to consider individual complaints and when a business has got things 
wrong, we can direct that it put things right. Although Prudential did get things wrong here, 
Im not satisfied that its mistakes have caused Mr M any loss. Therefore, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
,My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman