DRN-3834895
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society has not supported him as a vulnerable 
customer and hasnt complied with its legal duties.
What happened
Mr T says Nationwide will not support him as a vulnerable customer despite what he says is 
their legal duty to do so. He says he asked Nationwide to correspond with him via e-mail. Mr 
T says Nationwide is not compliant with United Kingdom (UK) laws.
Nationwide says e-mail is not its primary method of corresponding with its customers. It says 
it can correspond via different methods other than by sending letters and says it has a 
specialist support team that Mr T could contact if he wished. Nationwide says if Mr T could 
explain what precisely he requires help with, then it may be better placed to support him.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Nationwide offered alternative methods of communicating with its customers and 
had fairly offered Mr T the support of its specialist team. But he hadnt made contact with it 
and thought it would assist, if Mr T explained what needs he thought were not being met.
Mr T doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr T says Nationwide has not complied with UK laws. I hope it assists Mr T if I 
explain that we are not Nationwides regulator or a court. So, its not our role to decide if laws 
have been breached of if a business has not complied with its regulatory duties.
I can see that Mr T says he would like correspondence by e-mail rather than by receiving 
letters. I am satisfied that Nationwide has fairly explained why e-mail is not its primary 
method of communicating with its customers but has fairly offered alternative methods of 
communicating with Mr T. I am also satisfied that Nationwide has fairly offered Mr T the 
services of its specialist support team. So, I think Nationwide has tried to help Mr T and 
considered alternative methods of communication. I also think that if Mr T provided more 
specific details about the type of help, he requires, then Nationwide would be better placed 
to help him. I would expect Mr T to make contact with the specialist team and no doubt that 
team could assist him in future dealings with Nationwide. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide has tried to help Mr T and offered the support of its 
specialist team. I hope Mr T appreciates that it would be for a court to decide for example if 
the Equality Act 2010 had been breached and our role is to decide if he has been treated 
fairly and reasonably. For the reasons I have explained Im satisfied that Nationwide has 
acted in such a way in the circumstances of this complaint.
This now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman