DRN-3290271
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he lost to scam. He lost a total of 
£1,694.04 through card transactions when he believed he was paying for flights.
What happened
Mr S was searching online for flights and found what he thought was a reputable price 
comparison site. He submitted his contact information and was called by someone claiming 
to be acting as a travel agent. Mr S didnt know at the time, but the caller was in fact a 
scammer.  
Mr S was presented with an agreeable itinerary and price and told the scammer he wanted 
to go ahead. He supplied his card details in order to do so. 
The scammer first had him make a test payment of £0.72 which Mr S had to approve using 
his banking app. He then approved the main payment of £1,692.60.
The scammer then told Mr S hed have to validate himself through his banking app, which 
caused Mr S some concern. He contacted Santander to question the need to validate 
himself and was informed his earlier payments had already gone through.
There was then further contact from the scammer, along with further attempts to use Mr S 
card (including a further payment of £0.72, which went through). This made Mr S suspicious 
and he contacted Santander again to discuss what was happening. It was then that the 
scam was revealed.
Santander accepted Mr S had been the victim of a scam but said it wouldnt be refunding 
him as hed authorised the card payments. Mr S was unhappy with Santanders response 
and so brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. She said there was little the bank could do as the transactions had 
been authorised by Mr S. She considered whether Santander ought to have intervened 
when the payments were being made but didnt find they were sufficiently unusual. She also 
thought it was questionable whether intervention from the bank would have made a 
difference, given Mr S was expecting to make the payments and all seemed legitimate at the 
time.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators findings. He felt the payment of £1,692.60 was 
unusual spending for him. And he said that hed contacted the bank about the payments 
when they were still pending, and so thought the bank ought to have been able to stop them. 
He also said hed been in touch with the recipient of the funds (a legitimate money transfer 
business) who had said theyd release details of the account holder to Santander or the 
police. 
The complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but Im not upholding his complaint and for broadly the same 
reasons as our investigator. I know this isnt the news Mr S will have been hoping for and I 
appreciate hes likely to be frustrated and angry that hes not receiving a refund. But I cant 
see that the bank has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
Theres no dispute as to whether the payments made from Mr S account were authorised. 
All parties accept Mr S gave over his card details and approved the payments. That Mr S 
made the payments under false pretences, and as part of a scam, dont alter the fact they 
were authorised. And so the starting position (as per the Payment Service Regulations 2017 
and his account terms and conditions) is that he is responsible for them. 
There are times when Id expect a bank to intervene and question a payment out of a 
customers account, even when it appears to have been properly authorised. Banks ought to 
be on the lookout for fraud and scams to prevent customers suffering financial harm. But, for 
most payments, a bank should process them quickly and is obligated to do so. 
Ive thought about the payments Mr S auhtorised and I dont think they were so remarkable 
that the bank ought to have stepped in to question them. Mr S has pointed out the he doesnt 
spends so much using his card. And its true that there isnt a similar sized payment in the 
previous twelve months. But it is the case that the payment isnt significantly more in value 
than other payments.
More generally speaking, the sum of £1,692.60 isnt an unusually sized card payment for a 
customer to make. That isnt to say it isnt a significant sum for Mr S to have lost. But I can 
see why it wouldnt have appeared inherently suspicious or risky to the bank. I can then 
understand why it didnt intervene and I consider it was fair and reasonable for it not to have 
done so.
Mr S has questioned why the bank didnt stop the payments out of his account as they were 
still showing as pending when he reported the scam. He thinks Santander ought to have 
prevented the money from leaving his account. But it is the case that once a card payment 
has been authorised it cant be stopped, even though it may show as pending on an 
account. Im satisfied there wasnt anything Santander could have done to stop the money 
leaving Mr S account.
Im also satisfied there was nothing Santander could do to recover the money. And whilst I 
dont doubt what Mr S has said about the payee being willing to share the details of its 
account holder, that wouldnt have an impact on Santanders ability to get Mr S money back. 
If the payee is happy to share the details with the police, Mr S can report the crime hes been 
the victim of, and it would be for them to take the investigation forward.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman