DRN-2425658
The complaint
Miss P complains that Nationwide Building Society refused to carry out a chargeback for her.
What happened
Miss P bought items in an airport duty free area. She says she was asked if she wished to 
pay in the local currency which is Moroccan Dirham or in Euros. Miss P says she said she 
wished to pay in the local currency and was expecting the transaction to be about 580 
Dirhams which is about just under £50. She later discovered that she had paid in Euros and 
tried to sort matters out with the merchant by sending copies of her receipt and other 
information, but the merchant stopped communicating with her. Miss P asked Nationwide to 
raise a chargeback, but it said she didnt have any chargeback rights as she had authorised 
the transaction and couldnt provide an itemised receipt.
Nationwide says it paid Miss P £75 compensation for the delay in dealing with her complaint 
but says it acted fairly by refusing to make a chargeback as Miss P authorised the 
transaction and couldnt provide a detailed receipt showing there may have been an error. It 
also says it was Miss Ps responsibility to check the amount.
Miss P brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought the e-mail exchange showed Miss P was unhappy with the currency 
used and the amount and had tried to sort matters out with the merchant. The investigator 
thought there was a chargeback code for theses sorts of currency issues and so Nationwide 
ought to have raised one. The investigator recommended Nationwide refund £467.52 and 
refund the cost of the currency conversion as well as pay 8% interest on that amount.
Miss P agrees with the investigators view, but Nationwide does not. In summary it says the 
receipt matches the amount Miss P authorised and the chargeback code only applies to 
situations where a customer doesnt agree to the chosen currency.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint but intend to 
make slightly different recommendations to those of the investigator for the reasons I will 
explain.
The chargeback rules are not set as in this case by Nationwide but by the card providers. A 
chargeback is a voluntary scheme and not a right. We take the view that where reasonable a 
bank or building society ought to raise a chargeback, but it isnt responsible for the outcome 
of the dispute.
I have looked at the e-mail exchange between Miss P and the merchant and looked carefully 
at what she has told us and Nationwide about this dispute. I think on balance Miss P 
intended to pay for the items in local currency which would have equated to what she said 
the value of the items was in Sterling and I can see that she gave both the merchant and 
Nationwide copies of the photographs of the items. So, I think a mistake was made and I 
accept Miss P authorised the transaction but I think she assumed the transaction was in the 
chosen local currency.
Im satisfied that Miss P tried to sort matters out with the merchant but it is clear that failed 
as the merchant didnt respond to her save for an initial acknowledgment of her complaint.
I think in those circumstances Nationwide ought to have raised a chargeback and had 
sufficient information to do so including Miss Ps boarding pass details, the receipt and e-
mail exchange. I dont think it was reasonable or fair at that stage for Nationwide to simply 
dismiss that request and say there were no reasonable grounds to raise a chargeback on 
the basis Miss P authorised the transaction.
I appreciate Nationwide has provided information from the card provider about these sorts of 
issues. But having read that information and looked at the particular code myself Im 
satisfied that was a potential ground for raising a chargeback and I think in those 
circumstances one ought to have been raised. I also think that would have meant the 
merchant would have had to have provided the full receipt and could have traced the exact 
transaction via the boarding pass information which is required to be kept.
I make clear that if Nationwide had raised a chargeback, but the card provider found in the 
merchants favour, then Miss P could have no complaint about Nationwides actions.
There is no dispute about the compensation amount of £75 and so I will not comment further 
on it.
Im satisfied the investigators calculation of the loss suffered is fair and reasonable, but I 
think the fairest approach would be for Nationwide to pay Miss P compensation of that 
amount rather than calculate a refund and or any exchange rate differences. I appreciate 
that it is impossible to say what would have been the outcome if a chargeback had been 
raised. But I have explained why I think if one had been raised that would have meant the 
merchant would have carried out a more detailed investigation than was carried out and no 
doubt could potentially have explained if there was a mistake.
Putting things right
I intend to order Nationwide to pay compensation broadly in line with the disputed amount 
and I dont think it appropriate to order a refund and interest for the reasons I have 
explained. And that I dont think it possible to say what the outcome of the chargeback would 
have been.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Miss P £467.52 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman