DRN-3760140
The complaint
Mrs K complains on behalf of Mr S about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
(Advantage) handled a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
For ease of reading, Ill refer to Mr S throughout.
Mr S had a motor insurance policy with Advantage covering his car. 
In March 2022, Mr Ss car was filled with the wrong type of fuel which caused some damage.
He contacted Advantage to ask if this was covered under his motor insurance policy. 
Admirals claims handler said it was, so Mr S made a claim. 
It took a short time for Mr Ss car to be taken to one of Admirals repairers and over a week 
passed before work started on the car. 
Advantage then realised that the car had been mis-fuelled, which isnt covered under its 
policy. It referred to this exclusion in its policy wording:
Youre not covered for:
Loss or damage caused by an inappropriate type or grade of fuel being used.
During the process, a hire car had been supplied to Mr S for about a week. But, because the 
damage wasnt covered, Advantage asked for the hire car to be returned. His car was 
available for him about three weeks after hed made the claim, but it still needed repairing.
Ms S wasnt happy with how Advantage had handled his claim, so he complained. He says 
he called Advantage about 30 times to chase up his claim and was passed around a lot 
because no-one was able to answer his questions.
Advantage said that some of its service hadnt been good enough and it had given Mr S the 
wrong information when hed made the claim. It said it shouldnt have taken two weeks to 
realise that the claim wasnt covered under the policy. It awarded Mr S £125 compensation 
for its mistakes. It also said Mr S had benefitted from a hire car it provided despite the claim 
not being covered.  
Mr S remained unhappy and he brought his complaint to this service. He asks for Advantage 
to pay for the cost of repairs to his car because it had already started to carry out the work, 
the costs of using public transport and compensation for his distress. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and upheld it. She said she thought Advantage 
should pay Mr S a total of £300 compensation because it had caused him a lot of 
inconvenience.
Mr S didnt agree with the view and thought that fair compensation should be around £2,000. 
He thinks this because he says if Advantage had handled his claim correctly, he would have 
had the car repaired locally at less cost.
He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from Mr Ss evidence that he has had the work carried out to replace the engine at 
a cost of over £8,000. Having read the file, its my understanding that he did this because he 
wanted to ensure thered be no further problem with the engine. This meant that he asked 
the garage to fit a new engine from the manufacturer.
I sympathise with Mr Ss position. A mistake was made when fuelling the car which has had 
a huge impact on the car, and consequently his finances. But when I look at the policy 
wording I can see that Advantage dont provide cover for the results of mis-fuelling. 
Its Mr Ss contention that Advantage should continue to pay for the repairs because it had 
started to do the work on the car. But Im afraid I dont agree. Sometimes work on a car will 
uncover the cause of damage. In this case, that seems to be what happened. When the 
garage carried out the diagnostic work, it confirmed the underlying cause which wasnt 
covered under the policy.  
In this situation, Id expect Advantage to cover the costs already encountered in uncovering 
the true cause, as it had authorised the claim in the first place. And that seems to be what 
has happened here. 
So I cant say Advantage has acted unfairly in rejecting his claim and Im not going to ask it 
to pay anything more for the damage that was caused.
Ive also thought about the experience Mr S had when he made his claim. Having asked 
Advantage whether mis-fuelling was covered, Advantages claims handler confirmed that it 
was. This mistake then meant Mr S continued to make the claim.
Due to the repairing garages being busy, there was a delay of around a week before the car 
was examined. I can see that Mr S contacted Advantage repeatedly during this time in order 
to find out if the claim was progressing and I can see Mr S mentions how inconvenient it 
was.
When the car was allocated to Advantages repairing garage, Mr S was supplied with a hire 
car. 
Advantage then realised that the claim wasnt covered under its policy wording and it asked 
the repairing garage to return his car, and the hire care company asked for the hire car back. 
I can see that Advantage said Mr S effectively benefitted from the hire car for a week even 
though he wasnt entitled to one. But I dont agree with its point of view. Advantage supplied 
the hire car due to its error in handling the claim initially, so I will take this into account when 
considering his inconvenience.
Mr S has told this service of the high number of calls he had to make to find out where his 
car was and how the claim was progressing. He also mentions long wait times. I can see 
from Advantages evidence that many calls were ended early which may have been a factor here. He also mentions public transport costs, but Ive not seen evidence of this in the file.
Taking into account Advantages error in initially authorising the claim, and the 
inconvenience of him not having his car for three weeks, I dont think Advantages offer of 
£125 compensation is enough. Ive looked at what this service would recommend in similar 
situations, and I think that a total of £300 is a more appropriate level of compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr S a total of £300 for his distress and 
inconvenience from its poor claims service. If £125 has already been paid, then it can be 
deducted.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman