DRN-3667000
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) didnt repair his phone 
properly and refused to refund his policy excess.
What happened
Mr A had breakdown and accidental damage cover with D&G for his mobile phone. He 
claimed under the policy for accidental damage to the screen, back and water damage. D&G 
provided a pre-paid returns bag and Mr A sent his phone in for repair.
D&G returned his phone 12 days later. 
Just over two weeks later, when Mr A checked the phone, he found the back was loose. He 
called to request another repair and D&G confirmed it would send another pre-paid returns 
bag. But Mr A was concerned that the repair wouldnt be completed, and the phone returned 
to him, in time for his long-term travel plan. D&G advised him to contact its specialist team 
for additional help but, in the meantime, it would send the pre-paid returns bag.
A week later, Mr A still hadnt received the returns bag so he complained to D&G. D&G 
apologised and said it would send the bag. However, Mr A was unhappy that the phone 
wouldnt be repaired and returned before he went away. He asked D&G to refund his policy 
excess or write off his phone and replace it.
D&G said it had completed a repair so there was no reason to refund the excess. It wasn't 
charging a second excess anyway. It also said that it wouldnt write off the phone unless it 
had seen the damage and considered that the best option.
Mr A complained to D&G because he no longer had time to follow the repairs process. He 
wanted D&G to refund his policy excess, which it refused without sight of the phone. 
However, D&G accepted that it hadnt sent the returns bag when it shouldve done and 
offered Mr A £20 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr A was unhappy with the offer, so he brought 
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think there was any more that D&G needed to do. He said D&G had 
acknowledged its failure to send the returns bag on the first request and the offer it made 
was reasonable in the circumstances. Our investigator didnt think D&G needed to refund the 
policy excess.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the offer was far too low and he remained of the view that D&G 
should refund his excess, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome Mr A hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
First repair
Mr A paid his policy excess for the first repair. If D&G had properly repaired his phone on 
that occasion, the policy excess would be valid and thered be no reason to ask D&G to 
refund it.
Having looked at the evidence, it seems Mr A didnt check his phone on receipt. It wasn't 
until 17 days later that he noted a problem with the back of the phone and called D&G. While 
I have no reason to doubt Mr As claim that the phone was still damaged when D&G 
returned it to him, its reasonable for D&G to ask to see the phone first and check the repair 
needed. 
I understand Mr A sent a photo to D&G of the damaged back, but I cant fairly conclude 
whether or not the damage was there when D&G first returned the phone to Mr A. Therefore, 
I think its fair and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy that D&G should first 
have the chance to assess the damage before considering Mr As request for a refund of the 
excess or to write off the phone.
Second repair
D&G hasnt disputed that Mr A didnt receive a returns bag. Ive check D&Gs notes and I 
can see that a request for one to be sent to him was logged. Its not clear why Mr A didnt 
receive anything, so I accept that this is a service shortfall. 
D&G offered £20 as a gesture of goodwill for the shortfall, but Mr A doesnt think thats 
enough. In isolation, the delay of one week sending the returns bag to Mr A is minimal and 
wouldve had little impact ordinarily, so Im satisfied the offer was fair.
Delay
That said, Mr A explained that hed be out of the country for an extended period, so time was 
a key factor for him. I can understand his frustration that D&G didnt send the returns bag 
when time would already have been tight. But I cant fairly hold D&G responsible for the 
overall delay. Mr A didnt check his phone on receipt after the first repair until more than two 
weeks later. Had he done so, the matter couldve been resolved sooner. 
I cant reasonably hold D&G responsible for the impact this had on Mr A. Thats because he 
knew he was going to be away, so it wouldve been prudent for him to check his phone 
sooner. And D&G isnt responsible for Mr As availability to follow the repairs process.
Additional comments
Ive considered Mr As further comments that he contacted D&G sooner than 17 days after 
he received his phone back from the first repair. However, he hasnt provided any evidence 
of that contact. This service asked D&G for evidence of calls from Mr A and the records 
show a clear gap in contact between the first claim call and the second claim call. Ive 
listened to the second claim call and Mr A confirmed that he didnt take the phone out of the 
box. He also said it wasn't his main phone, which I take to be an explanation for not 
removing it from the box sooner. Further, Mr A didnt mention a lack of response to any 
previous contact. Therefore, the evidence suggests that Mr A didnt make any contact with 
D&G between the two claim calls, so it would be unfair to hold D&G responsible for that part 
of the delay.D&G offered to repair the phone when Mr A returned from his extended time away. But he 
said the depreciation in value of the phone must be considered. I dont agree. The phones 
value would depreciate regardless of whether D&G repaired the phone before or after his 
time away. 
Overall, in the absence of any evidence to show that the first repair was unsuccessful, Im 
satisfied that D&Gs offer of £20 by way of apology for the delay sending the returns bag was 
fair and reasonable. I have no reason to require D&G to refund the policy excess or write off 
the phone, so I wont be asking D&G to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman