DRN-3657434
The complaint
Mr H says after claiming on his motor insurance policy, he got poor service from Advantage 
Insurance Company limited and faced long repair times with an unsuitable courtesy car. 
What happened
Mr Hs car went into Advantages garage in November 2021 and wasnt returned to him until 
June 2022. The garage said parts had to be ordered and werent readily available. Mr H 
wasnt updated on progress with the parts for 17 weeks. Eventually he contacted the 
supplier and the manufacturer to get updates. Meanwhile, the replacement car Mr H was 
offered was too small for his familys needs, so he had to borrow a car and eventually bought 
a new one. In February 2022 Mr H saw the parts that were needed advertised online as new. 
No-one explained to him why they couldnt be used. Mr H also complained about long call 
waiting times and being mis-sold an add-on policy in 2018.
Advantage paid Mr H £50 compensation plus £10 for expenses for poor service and call 
waiting times. It said the terms of the add-on policy had been explained to him at the point of 
sale and it wasnt mis-sold. It said the delay in getting parts was outside its control and that 
of its garage. And it pointed out that the policy stated clearly if a consumers car was being 
repaired, only a small class A vehicle would normally be provided.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint. She didnt think Advantage or the 
garage could be held responsible for the delayed parts, especially given the disruption 
caused by the pandemic. Nor did she think it was unreasonable for it not to use the parts 
advertised online  which she thought Mr H hadnt brought to its attention anyway.
 
In her view, Advantage did what was required of it under the policy in offering a class A car 
to Mr H. She thought it had shown that the add-on policy wasnt mis-sold. But in her opinion, 
contact with Mr H should have been better and he should have been updated regularly about 
the expected delivery time of the parts. She said Advantage should pay him £250 in total for 
poor service and consider any out of pocket expenses hed had to pay.
  
Mr H said in response to the investigators view that when the car was returned to him in 
June 2022, he had to send it back to the garage, as some sensors werent working. He said 
at that point, he bought a new car, so he was paying to insure two vehicles. Mr H said hed 
shown it was possible to trace the ordered parts and to provide regular updates. He pointed 
out that the policy said Advantages garages may use parts not supplied by the manufacturer 
(or even recycled ones) so it wasnt clear why the online parts werent considered. He said 
Advantage had only made one attempt to source a bigger car and that the policy wasnt fair, 
as the standard repair time didnt apply in his case. As there was no agreement, the 
complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at whether the add-on policy Mr H bought (for substitute vehicle cover) was mis-
sold. I dont think it was, as the advisor made it clear that the cover was limited to the 
situation where his car was written-off (or stolen and not recovered). Had that happened, he 
would have been entitled to a like-for-like car for up to 21 days. 
I think its clear why Mr H was frustrated with the class A car he was offered. It simply didnt 
cover his familys needs, so it wasnt of any real use. But I dont think Advantage can be 
blamed for that. The policy states that only a class A car is provided normally. Advantage 
has pointed out that theres a shortage of replacement courtesy and hire cars at the moment 
(caused by the loss of car production during the pandemic). I think thats a fair point  it 
affects many consumers whose cars have to be repaired. But in any event, in my opinion 
Advantage did what it was required to do under the policy. 
Most insurers supply a class A replacement car as standard, but some policies have an 
option to upgrade to a larger vehicle for an extra cost. When he bought the policy Mr H didnt 
expect his car to be damaged, or to be off the road for months. But that happens from time 
to time. As a result, many consumers who know theyll want a larger than standard 
replacement car in the unfortunate event of an accident look for a policy that gives them the 
option of paying for one thats bigger than a class A model. 
Mr H thinks Advantage should be required to vary the hire car term, depending on the 
particular circumstances. But its already open to an insurer to provide a larger car to a 
consumer even when it isnt obliged to do so  assuming that one is available. I dont think 
theres anything inherently unfair in offering a class A car, in line with the policy terms  and 
I dont think theres any doubt that the pandemic has made a huge difference to the 
availability of hire cars. Advantage did look for a bigger car on one occasion (which it wasnt 
required to do). Mr H thinks it should have tried harder, but I cant say it acted unreasonably. 
I dont think Advantage can be blamed for the time it took to get the replacement parts that 
were ordered just after the accident. The manufacturer told Mr H that numerous factories 
had closed due to the pandemic, causing huge supply problems with parts. I think its fair to 
say that the world-wide shortage of goods has made a significant difference to the relatively 
short waiting times for parts prior to 2020. So to some extent I think Mr H was the victim of a 
set of very unfortunate circumstances. Many consumers will have found themselves in a 
similar position. But I think Advantage could have handled the situation better. 
 
In my opinion, the level of service from the garage was poor. As he was left in the dark, Mr H 
was faced with an open-ended period during which he couldnt make any plans for travelling 
with his family. He faced ongoing upset and inconvenience. Mr H has shown that when he 
contacted the manufacturer, it was able to find out where the parts were and let him know 
what was happening with them on a regular basis. I dont think hes shown the updates 
meant the delivery of the parts was any quicker. But I think the garage should have given 
him more updates and managed his expectations. He may then have been reassured of its 
desire to provide good service and to complete the repairs as soon as possible. 
Mr H found the required parts advertised for sale online in February 2022, but he wasnt told 
why the garage didnt follow it up. When we asked about it recently, Advantage said the 
parts had been paid for and the cost of ordering from a reputable source at an agreed rate 
(not the general public rate) was also a consideration. I think thats a reasonable explanation 
 and it would have applied equally to all consumers who had to wait a long time for parts. 
But I think Advantage should have advised Mr H about it at the time. Advantage offered Mr H £50 compensation (plus £10 for expenses) given the poor service 
he got from the garage and the long waiting times when contacting an associated firm. The 
investigator thought £250 in total for poor service would be fair and reasonable. Mr H didnt 
disagree, but he thought some of the issues hed raised hadnt been dealt with. 
As set out above, I dont think Advantage mis-sold a policy to Mr H, that it was wrong for it to 
offer him a class A car, or that it was to blame for the delay in getting the ordered parts. I 
think much of the distress and inconvenience Mr H faced arose from those issues. Other 
issues arose later on (such as the car not being fully repaired on its return). They can only 
have added to his dissatisfaction with Advantage and its garage - but in this decision I cant 
deal with anything Advantage hasnt had the chance to address in the first instance. If Mr H 
isnt happy with Advantages response to these extra concerns - should he decide to 
complain to it about them - he can contact us again in due course. 
Taking everything into account, I think £250 compensation in total is a reasonable sum to 
reflect the upset and inconvenience that arose from the poor service issues that can be 
addressed in this decision. As for Mr Hs out of pocket expenses, as far as I can see he 
hasnt provided specific expenses to Advantage. Im unable to comment further on this, but 
its something Mr H can raise with Advantage for its consideration. 
 
I know Mr H will be disappointed with my decision. He thinks weve taken an unsympathetic 
approach in general to dealing with his complaint, and I understand why he may have 
reached that conclusion. I appreciate how hard he and his family found it to cope with the 
loss of their large car for such a long period. But what I have to consider is whether 
Advantage was responsible for all of the distress and inconvenience he faced. 
As Ive said above, I think it was partly responsible and that it and its garage provided some 
poor service, so theres no doubt that it should compensate him for that. But I also think a set 
of circumstances beyond Advantages control made matters worse than they would 
otherwise have been. I sympathise greatly with Mr H, but I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold Advantage responsible for all the issues hes raised.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr H £250 in total for distress and inconvenience. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision 
before 25 October 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman