DRN-1882930
 
The complaint
 Mr C complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when lending to him. 
What happened 
Between May and October 2018 Sunny provided Mr C with four instalment loans. When they 
were arranged, all these loans were originally due to be repaid by six monthly repayments. 
Mr C paid loan 1 but he had problems paying loans 2, 3 and 4 and Sunny sold these debts 
to a debt collection agency. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
loan
 date taken
 date paid   instalments amount highest*
repayment
1 16/05/2018 31/10/2018 6 £450 £116.61
2 26/08/2018 debt sold 6 £150 £166.61
3 12/09/2018 debt sold 6 £100 £197.52
4 13/10/2018 debt sold 6 £100 £228.30
*highest repayment shows combined amount payable for overlapping loans
Mr C feels that Sunny failed to do proper checks and the loans were unaffordable for him.  
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Cs complaint. She didnt think shed seen enough to say 
that loans 1-3 shouldnt have been lent  but she felt that by loan 4 Sunny shouldve seen 
that Mr C was likely having money problems. So our adjudicator said Sunny shouldnt have 
lent him loan 4 and she gave detailed directions setting out what she thought Sunny should 
do to put things right for Mr C. 
Sunny didnt agree that loan 4 shouldnt have been lent to Mr C. Sunny mainly said that it 
allowed customers to take out up to four loans at any one time and it didnt think a customer 
taking out three loans in a short space of time was a good enough reason to uphold this 
complaint.
Mr C disagreed with what our adjudicator said about not upholding loans 1, 2 and 3  he felt 
all the loans were unaffordable and this wouldve been obvious to Sunny if it had looked at 
his credit report and bank statements.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And, in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr C. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Sunny what he normally spent each month, including 
spending on other credit commitments. And Sunny also carried out checks on Mr Cs credit 
file. 
I agree with the adjudicator that looking at the information Mr C told Sunny about his income 
and outgoings and what Sunny had recorded about his financial situation, it wasnt wrong for 
Sunny to give him loans 1, 2 and 3. These loans all looked comfortably affordable for Mr C, 
based on what hed said to Sunny about his finances - even taking into account the combined monthly repayments. It was early in the lending relationship and so I think the 
checks it did were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr C has said in response to the adjudicators 
recommendation in relation to these first three loans and I've taken into consideration the 
credit information hes sent us. Sunny made its lending decisions based on the information 
Mr C provided and what its own checks showed  and I dont think that was unreasonable. 
Given what Mr C told Sunny about his finances and what was apparent about Mr Cs 
circumstances and his borrowing history at that time with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Sunny to ask Mr C for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing these loans. In other words, 
I cant fairly say that Sunny shouldve seen the credit information that Mr C has sent us 
before agreeing to provide loans 1, 2 and 3  or that Sunny did anything wrong when it 
provided these loans to Mr C without having this information. 
Im sorry that Mr C found making all the loan repayments was difficult. And I accept that in 
reality his financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the 
other information Sunny obtained.  
But in order to uphold his complaint about the first three loans Sunny provided, I have to be 
able to say that Mr C lost out as a result of something that Sunny did wrong. And for the 
reasons I've set out above, based on all the information I've seen and been told, I dont think 
thats the case. So Im not upholding the complaint about loans 1, 2 and 3.
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 4. At this 
point, I think Sunny shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Mr Cs borrowing 
history that he was likely having money problems. 
I say this because by the time he asked for loan 4, Mr C already had three other outstanding 
short term loans with Sunny  and now he was asking for further borrowing. 
So although the loan mightve appeared affordable, I think that Sunny shouldve realised that 
Mr Cs borrowing record painted a picture of someone struggling with debt. Although Sunny 
had obtained some credit information this doesnt help explain Mr Cs borrowing history. So 
I think Sunny shouldve enquired further to obtain a proper understanding of his financial 
situation. If Sunny had done proportionate checks before providing loan 4, it shouldve seen 
that Mr C already had an established record of borrowing from other high cost lenders and 
several currently outstanding loans with other short term lenders. So Sunny shouldve 
realised that despite what hed told Sunny about his finances, Mr C was having serious 
problems managing his money. 
Just because Sunny allowed customers to take out up to four loans at any one time doesnt 
mean that it acted fairly when it provided loan 4 to Mr C. I think Sunny shouldve seen that 
the indications were that loan 4 wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr C and it 
shouldnt have provided this loan to him. 
So Im planning on upholding the complaint about loan 4.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr C has said that he still feels Sunny didnt do all the checks it shouldve done. He said his 
credit report and bank statements showed the full extent of his debt and money problems  
so Sunny couldve seen that all the loans it gave him were unaffordable.
Sunny has acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but not commented further.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
approached this complaint the same way.
Ive also thought carefully about Mr Cs response to what I've said in my provisional decision. 
I appreciate that Mr C feels strongly about his complaint and I can understand that hes 
disappointed that I didn't uphold all the Sunny loans he complained to us about. But, for the 
reasons I explained at more length in my provisional decision, I didnt think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Sunny to ask Mr C for the amount of information that would be needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing loans 1-3. The information Sunny did 
gather about Mr Cs financial circumstances didnt suggest that hed have a problem 
repaying loans 1-3. 
So although Mr C says his bank statements wouldve shown the full extent of his financial 
difficulties, I wouldnt reasonably expect Sunny to have asked to see Mr Cs bank statements 
before agreeing to lend him loans 1-3.
And Id just mention here that when a lender carries out a credit search, the information it 
sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a persons own credit search will 
and it isnt necessarily up to date. 
After taking carefully into account everything that Mr C has said, and as no further comments 
have been received from Sunny in response to my provisional decision, I still think its fair to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint about loan 4 for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision 
(and not to uphold his complaint about any of the other loans Sunny provided to him). 
Putting things right  what Sunny should do
Sunny should buy back the outstanding debt on loan 4 before doing what I have outlined 
below. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner 
to achieve the following:
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 4 and treat any 
repayments made by Mr C, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything Sunny has already refunded, as though they 
had been repayments of the principal.
 
B. If this results in Mr C having made overpayments then these should be refunded with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
 
C. If there is still an outstanding capital balance then I remind Sunny that it should take 
a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan for the 
reduced balance with Mr C.
 
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Cs credit file for loan 4 when it is repaid.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint about loan 4and direct Elevate Credit International Limited (trading 
as Sunny) to take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman