DRN-4228323
The complaint
Ms M complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) failed to determine 
that she held US citizenship when providing her with investment advice. As a result, shes 
incurred unnecessary liabilities and been caused distress and inconvenience.   
What happened
Ms M has been a customer of SJP since 2005 and over the course of the relationship since 
then shes been recommended a series of different investment products  an ISA, unit trust, 
an investment bond, among other things.
In 2020, when, as a separate matter, she was dealing with the administration of estate of her 
late father, she completed a form that asked whether she was a US person. As she has 
joint UK/US citizenship she answered yes. It was this that led to her becoming aware of her 
liability to pay tax in the US.
Following this, Ms M complained to SJP as she felt it shouldve actively determined her 
citizenship status while advising her over the previous 15 years. She felt that if it had done 
so, she wouldve been prompted to act sooner and ben able to manage the situation more 
effectively.
SJP didnt uphold the complaint. It noted that at the outset of its relationship with Ms M she 
had confirmed that she was a UK resident, had always lived in the UK and was UK 
domiciled. This information had then been confirmed at regular points during the relationship 
when various recommendations had been made to her. SJP said the adviser who generally 
worked with Ms M had not been aware of any link to the US. As such, it didnt feel it was 
responsible for any liability that Ms M might incur as a result of not addressing the matter of 
her US citizenship sooner.
Ms M said that it had always been a requirement that SJP ask the question. SJP 
acknowledged that the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) and the 
Organisation for Economic Development (OECD) Common Reporting Standard (CRS) 
required businesses to collect information about customers tax residency. But it said that 
while it had made some changes to its forms over the years to make them clearer in this 
respect, they had never been incorrect at any point. The amendments had been an exercise 
in improving the process to help make it clearer to customers, rather than a response to or 
requirement of regulatory change.    
Although SJP didnt uphold the complaint, it did offer Ms M £250 by way of an apology for its 
delay in dealing with the matter, which Ms M accepted.
Ms M referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as SJP. She felt Ms M ought reasonably to have disclosed her joint citizenship 
when responding to various questions about residency, domicile and tax as part of the 
ongoing advice process. The investigator also noted that, following a change in FACTA 
requirements in 2014, SJP had in fact been required to update its forms and seek self-
certification from its customers. This had involved Ms M completing a form in December 
2016 which had specifically asked if she was a US citizen, but she had still not disclosed the 
information. 
Ms M didnt accept the investigators view. She said that SJPs early compliance checks had 
failed to ask the right questions and had been misleading such that she hadnt been 
prompted to think about her US citizenship. She felt that if the questions had been presented 
differently, in a clearer format, they wouldve drawn attention to the fact that other 
information may have been required.
However, she accepted she shouldve completed the amended 2016 self-certification form 
differently, as it was clearer, so she suggested a compromise for redress based upon her 
having denounced her US citizenship in 2016 and acting at that point to address any 
liabilities.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so that matters been referred to 
me to review.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Ms M didnt recognise the potential tax implications of holding joint 
citizenship. She had lived in the UK her entire life and clearly thought of herself as a UK 
citizen. But ultimately, it was her responsibility to be aware of her citizenship status and take 
any necessary steps to ensure she was meeting all necessary related obligations.
As a UK-based business proving investment advice to primarily UK-based clients I can see 
why the documentation Ms M completed at the outset with SJP, and subsequently until the 
required changes in 2014, didnt actively seek information about potential US or other 
citizenships. 
I note Ms M says that she did discuss her connections to the US with her adviser and that 
these discussions shouldve prompted the adviser to act. But without more evidence as to 
the nature of this kind of interaction, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that SJP 
shouldve done more. Discussions of visits to the US or of family being based there could 
perhaps have prompted the adviser to ask more questions, but I dont think it was the case 
that there was a requirement that the adviser should delve more deeply. I think SJP was 
entitled to rely upon the information provided to it by Ms M in the relevant documentation. 
It seems that there was a point at which SJP was required to be more pro-active in seeking 
information from customers, when FACTA made changes in 2014. The SJP self-certification 
form issued after this point, which Ms M completed in 2016, was much more explicit in its 
questioning about US citizenship. Unfortunately, even with this increased clarity Ms M didnt 
document her US citizenship. 
While I can completely understand how this oversight occurred  Ms M simply saw herself 
as a UK citizen due to her lifelong residency  it does suggest that even if SJPs questions 
had been made clearer sooner (although, as I say, there was no particular requirement that 
the questions were clearer) then Ms M may well have still overlooked noting her US 
citizenship. 
In summary, although sympathetic to Ms Ms situation, particularly with the matter having 
come to light at such a difficult time, I find Im unable to conclude that SJP acted incorrectly 
or unfairly.    My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman