DRN-2051215
The complaint
Mr F complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr F called BG as there was an issue with his consumer unit. He was 
advised by them to change the unit but chose not to. 
In February 2019, Mr F contacted BG as he had no heating or power. BG sent an engineer 
who found that there was a fault with the consumer unit. So he made it safe and said that 
another engineer would come later that evening to repair it. 
Unfortunately, that engineer didnt attend that evening and Mr F decided to stay at a hotel 
with his family. Mr F raised a complaint to BG, and it offered to pay for the second nights 
stay at the hotel, as its engineers were booked to attend on 8 February 2019. It attended on 
that day and repaired the unit. But as power hadnt been completely restored, BG advised 
Mr F that he would need the unit upgraded, which he agreed to. 
Mr F requested that BG attend his home on 11 February to carry out the upgrade, but BG 
informed him by text that the appointment would take place on 14 February. The unit was 
upgraded on that day and power was completely restored.
A few days later Mr F had issues with the power to his house and emailed BG. Unfortunately 
this email and others he sent werent responded to. So, Mr F raised another complaint about 
the poor service he had received from them. BG offered Mr F £250 compensation as a 
goodwill gesture. But Mr F declined this as he wanted substantially more. As well as, BG 
reimbursing him for all the cost of his hotel stay  two nights in total.
In its final response, BG accepted that its customer service was lacking and offered Mr F 
£350 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused. Mr F wasnt satisfied with BGs final 
response to his complaint, so he brought it to this service. 
Ultimately our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying that BG had acted fairly by 
offering £350 compensation for the distress caused. Mr F didnt accept our investigators 
view and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking BG to do anything more to resolve the complaint. 
I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr F, but I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I must consider this complaint impartially and look at whether BG acted unfairly in its 
dealings with Mr F. I have considered what BG has presented as evidence and Mr Fs main 
complaints which are firstly the delay and secondly, the poor level of service he received 
from BG. 
Mr F said that BG took 45 days to complete the repair. BG dont accept the delay as it felt 
that it completed the repair within a reasonable time. Having reviewed the evidence, I agree 
with BG and Ill explain why. Mr F contacted BG in January, it attended to fix the consumer 
unit and advised Mr F to change it which he declined. Unfortunately, a few weeks later, Mr F 
reported that there was an issue with the unit and BG attended to fix it on the same day. 
I can see that BG made the unit safe but couldnt complete the repair on that day, due to 
lack of time and parts needed. So I dont think its unreasonable for BG to have scheduled to 
carry out the work on another day. 
The date of the original appointment was brought forward, and the repair restored most of 
the power and all the heating in Mr Fs home. But because some of the power couldnt be 
restored, BG advised Mr F to change the consumer unit, which he did. Around a week later 
the unit was completely repaired. I am satisfied that BG carried out the repair within a 
reasonable time and I dont think its fair to say that BG caused delay here.
From the papers, I can see that Mr F raised another complaint as his consumer unit kept 
short circuiting. I have read all the email correspondence that he sent to BG and I can 
understand the frustration that he felt as he perceived that BG were ignoring him. I agree 
that BG ought to have attended to him much sooner than it did. But having reviewed the 
evidence, I dont think the electrical fault that was happening, can be fairly blamed on 
anything BG did. 
I have next looked at the level of customer service that Mr F received. BG has admitted that 
there was a failure on its part to adequately respond to Mr Fs emails and accepts that there 
were appointments that were missed or rescheduled late. All of which, I can appreciate 
wouldve been stressful for Mr F. 
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy document and I can find no term that 
allows for alternative accommodation, in the circumstances of a claim like the one Mr F 
made. Despite this, BG agreed to pay for the second nights stay at the hotel and have 
offered to pay for the first night stay, provided Mr F produces the invoice for that date. I note 
the offer doesnt extend to include any beverages at all and I cant say that it would be fair to 
direct BG to pay for those. So I think that BG has been fair in offering to pay the alternative 
accommodation, given the hotel costs arent strictly covered.
In assessing the compensation offered, Ive considered the delay, the level of customer 
service BG provided to Mr F and the effect this wouldve had on him and his family. Whilst I 
agree that there were some shortcomings in BGs treatment of Mr F, I am satisfied that the 
£350 offered in compensation, for the trouble and upset it caused is fair
If the compensation hasnt already been paid to Mr F, he can contact BG to accept this 
payment if he wants to and produce the invoice for the first night stay at the hotel, so that BG 
can consider reimbursement. 
I am satisfied that BGs offer is fair in the circumstances and I wont be asking BG to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decisionBritish Gas Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £350 for the trouble and 
upset it caused and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. My decision is therefore 
that British Gas Insurance Limited should pay £350 compensation, if it hasnt already done 
so
It has also offered to refund the cost of the hotel stay, for the first night, on receipt of the 
invoice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman