DRN-2537097
The complaint
Mrs P complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) took back a refund it 
applied to her account. 
What happened
Mrs P purchased an electrical item for £99.99 from an online retailer in April 2020. She paid 
£4.99 for postage and packing and spent a further £25 to have the item installed in her 
home.
She says that the item was faulty and so she tried to initiate a refund and attempted to 
contact both the retailer and the company responsible for producing the product. She found 
a returns label and sent the item back at her local post office.
She let Barclaycard know what had happened and it initially refunded her £104.99 in 
June2020 but then the refund was debited back in September 2020.
Barclaycard has said that pending the outcome of its investigations, it temporarily credited 
Mrs Ps account with the disputed amount and the description on her statement confirmed it 
was a temporary credit. As Mrs P could not provide evidence to Barclaycard that she had 
returned the item it states a chargeback was not possible and it removed the temporary 
credit from Mrs Ps account. In addition to this, Barclaycard has said that Mrs Ps dispute 
carries no section 75 cover as the goods purchased were £99.99 and under the £100 
threshold to be considered under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought without proof of the 
item being returned and given the item was below the threshold for a section 75 claim 
Barclaycard wasnt wrong to remove the temporary credit.
Mrs P was disappointed with the outcome. She feels she has missed out on the refund 
because of one penny. This is difficult for her given she is struggling financially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer buys an item with a credit card which turns out to be faulty the consumer 
can look to a credit card provider either:
To refund her because she is protected under section 75 of the CCA; or
To make a chargeback claim for her.
As the investigator explained the protection under section 75 requires that the item bought 
costs at least £100 which it didnt. Mrs P therefore has no rights under section 75.
Even though the item costs less than £100 Barclaycard could still have made a chargeback 
claim for her. But we dont expect a business to do this if there wasnt a likely chance of the 
claim succeeding. In this case I agree with Barclaycard that without proof that she returned 
the item the claim was unlikely to succeed. 
I therefore dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong even though I am sorry this outcome 
will disappoint Mrs P.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman