DRN-3806408
The complaint
Miss B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt reimbursed her for 
funds she lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Bs representative has asked us to reconsider our position on the payments that went 
out of the account and on to the scammers rather than the internal transfers between 
Miss Bs accounts that later went to scammers. For completeness, I do agree with the 
investigator that NatWest acted appropriately on the internal transfers, especially 
considering they went to another known account in Miss Bs name and under her control. So 
my decision will focus on the payments that went direct to the cryptocurrency exchanges - 
£3,200; and £12,876.64 that went to another bank then to scammers, a total of £16,076.64.
The £3,200 that went to the cryptocurrency exchange was made up of four payments for 
£800 each, one payment on 13 May 2021 and three on 14 May 2021. So Im not satisfied 
that any of these ought to have triggered on NatWests systems. Even £2,400 in one day is 
not a significant figure, especially as Miss B has sent other similar payments around this 
time  for example £4,787.99 on 11 May 2021 and £2,000 on 10 May 2021. So I dont 
consider NatWest needed to stop these payments or intervene on them. I accept there was 
a conversation around the 4th £800 payment due to another larger payment on Miss Bs 
account that day, but I dont think NatWest needed to stop this one. 
Moving on to the payments to another bank, these are also not for values that I would 
consider needed to trigger, considering how many transactions a bank is expected to 
process in a day and Miss Bs overall account usage. The payments start at £1,000 to this 
account and the highest sent is a payment of £3,000. Nine of the payments are for under 
£1,000 and by this time this is a known payee. I can see NatWest did a confirmation of 
payee check and it matched, showing another bank account in Miss Bs name. I dont 
consider the value of these payments high enough, or their pattern concerning enough to 
say that NatWest failed in its duty here and missed an opportunity to uncover this scam.
NatWest did however stop another payment Miss B tried to make on 13 May 2021, to the 
cryptocurrency exchange for £5,000. A conversation was had with Miss B on 14 May 2021 
about this payment and NatWest didnt allow it to go ahead. In her initial complaint to us 
Miss B said that in this call she was provided with some untargeted investment advice and 
the bank made her aware of scams, but she was convinced the investment was genuine due 
to her mental state at the time. Miss Bs representative believes that NatWest ought to have 
asked different questions in this call and that from this it couldve unravelled this scam. And 
they said Miss B advised them she was given no scam advice or warnings. 
Ive been able to listen to this phone call and I can hear Miss B was given some scam 
advice. I accept that if NatWest had asked the questions Miss Bs representative has 
suggested, its possible this scam could have been unravelled. But the role of our service is 
not to dictate what questions a business should ask. What I have to consider is whether it 
did enough in this phone call considering the risk the payment posed and the information 
Miss B gave. And I think it did.
Miss B explains that shes making the payment with regards to tax on an investment and the 
NatWest advisor sets out that shes never heard of someone having to do this before. She 
puts the call on hold and confirms with a colleague, who also says this doesnt sound 
correct, so this message is passed over to Miss B.
The advisor says she wouldnt be happy to put the payment through and asks Miss B more 
about the investment and what shes being doing to date. Miss B tries to reassure the 
advisor by saying shes also able to query it with the bitcoin wallet before she sends it on, 
but the advisor says shes not heard youd have to pay tax before accessing funds before, so 
says she wont be approving the payment. She says to Miss B she should do some 
additional research into this before going ahead. Miss B asks her to put it through on her 
say so, but the advisor says she wont put it through. The advisor asks Miss B if theres 
anyone else, she can speak to about this that has more knowledge about bitcoin, but Miss B 
says she does know people who did this and received their funds. She asks the advisor 
again to make the payment and says she knows that its legit, but the advisor refuses and 
says it doesnt sound right.
Considering the detailed testimony provided by Miss Bs representative on why she 
considered this scam was legitimate, and listening to the call, Im not persuaded NatWest 
couldve unravelled this scam. NatWest did provide Miss B with a warning and also directed 
her to do additional research, which she didnt do. Miss B then doesnt make this large 
payment through her NatWest account, and she also doesnt make any more payments to 
the cryptocurrency exchange directly from her NatWest account. So it would appear from her 
statements she listened to the advisor and stopped investing. Whilst this wasnt the case, I 
cant say NatWest shouldve stopped the other payments, as theres nothing for it to link 
these to this scam.
I appreciate Miss B has been through a very difficult time as a result of this scam, but Im not 
persuaded NatWest did anything wrong in this case. The majority of the payments made 
were not high enough to trigger its fraud prevention systems. And it did trigger on the 
payment that was high enough and have a reasonable conversation with Miss B about the 
scam. Unfortunately this wasnt enough in this case to prevent her going ahead, due to how 
convinced she was in the scam at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman