DRN-3810586
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd (Berkshire) declined
her claim following an accident when driving, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs P says she collided with a vehicle in front of her when she was driving home from work
in February 2022. She contacted Berkshire to make a claim. It subsequently wrote back to
her to decline the claim. It says she was using the car to commute, which isnt covered by
her policy.
Mrs P says she called Berkshire to complain but wasnt given the chance to explain the
circumstance behind why she was driving back from work. She says she had only been in
her job for about four weeks, having previously been off work with health issues.
Mrs P says she arranged to get lifts with a colleague when she returned to work in January
2022. On the day of the accident her partner borrowed her car and drove her to work. He
later dropped the car off at her place of work and gave her the keys. Mrs P doesnt think
driving home on this occasion from work counts as commuting.
Mrs P says she paid Berkshire £30 to add commuting to her policy at its request. But she
now has no car and cant afford to replace it. She paid the additional amount because she
thought Berkshire would cover her claim. She says she has been caused a great deal of
stress and anxiety as a result of her claim being declined.
Berkshire says Mrs P told it she was driving home from work during the claim call when it
was asking validation questions. It says her policy covers her for social, domestic and
pleasure use only. Not commuting.
Mrs P didnt think this outcome was fair and referred her complaint to our service. Our
investigator upheld her complaint. He says it wouldve been fairer for Berkshire to consider
this claim under The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012
(CIDRA). He says Berkshire has shown it wouldve added commuting to Mrs Ps cover. He
thought it should reconsider the claim. If it was valid in all other respects Berkshire should
pay the claim on a proportional basis.
Berkshire disagreed. It says Mrs P had acted recklessly and so it had correctly declined the
claim. It provided screenshots of the online questions it says Mrs P was asked and says the
onus was on her to select the correct cover. It believes Mrs P acted recklessly when not
selecting commuting, as she knew she would be using the car to commute.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mrs 
Ps complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about whether the CIDRA rules should apply in these circumstances. For it to
apply Mrs P must have made a misrepresentation when she applied for her insurance policy
with Berkshire. Insurers use the information a customer provides to assess risk and to
decide whether to provide cover and at what price. So, if Mrs P intended using her car to
commute, and told Berkshire she didnt, this would constitute a misrepresentation.
However, Berkshire hasnt argued that CIDRA applies here. Mrs P has also explained that
she started work in January 2022. Prior to this she had been off-work due to her health
condition. Ive not been given a reason to doubt what Mrs P says about when she began
working in her current position. So, I dont think its been shown that she misrepresented this
information when she applied for her policy in May 2021.
In light of this I dont think a misrepresentation was made by Mrs P under the CIDRA rules.
That said Mrs P doesnt dispute that she was driving home from her place of work when the
accident occurred. Berkshire says this was confirmed during a call it had with her. Ive
listened to the call recording it provided where the accident was discussed. Mrs P is asked if
she was driving home from work, and she answers yes.
The policy certificate Mrs P received says, under Limitations as to Use, that she is insured
to drive for social, domestic and pleasure purposes excluding commuting. She was
provided with a copy of this certificate along with other policy documents. This isnt in
dispute. I think the information is clear that commuting is excluded.
Mrs P says she doesnt think driving home from work on the occasion of the accident
constitutes commuting. I cant see that the policy terms provide a definition. The dictionary
definition says this is to travel regularly a distance between work and home. This is similar
to the definition Mrs P has highlighted.
Ive thought about Mrs Ps comments that she normally gets a lift to work with a colleague.
However, she was asked during the call I listened to if driving home from work is what she
usually uses the car for. She answered yes to this question. This indicates she may have
driven to and from work more often than just the day on which the accident occurred.
I dont think this shows Mrs P answered incorrectly when the policy was taken out. She
confirms she wasnt working at this time, so she didnt need the car to commute. Based on
this Im satisfied a misrepresentation wasnt made under the CIDRA rules. However, the
policy terms explain what Mrs P was required to do in these circumstances. The terms say:
Changes to your insurance
It is important that you tell us immediately about any changes to the information that you
have provided which is detailed in your statement of fact, schedule and certificate of motor
insurance. Failure to notify us of any changes may result in your policy not being valid and
we may not pay your claim or only pay part of your claim. We may also cancel or void your
policy.
For example, you must tell us about:
- You change what you or anyone covered by this policy use your car for (for example,
you start using it for business purposes or delivery purposes even if you have
arranged separate insurance for this.I think the terms are clear that if Mrs P wanted to start using her car for commuting, she
needed to tell Berkshire about this. This would constitute a significant change to the risk
involved in insuring Mrs P, so its reasonable that it would want to know about it.
I can see that Berkshire provided Mrs P with a new policy schedule following her accident.
This includes commuting as one of the permissible uses of her car. I understand from Mrs P
that she was asked to pay an additional £30 as a result of this change. So, its clear
Berkshire was prepared to include commuting in the cover it offered to Mrs P.
Ive said that a misrepresentation wasnt made by Mrs P under the CIDRA rules. But in these
circumstances, I think referring to the outcomes set out by CIDRA is reasonable when
deciding what should happen here. With this in mind I think its reasonable that Berkshire
reconsiders Mrs Ps claim. When calculating redress, it should do so on a proportional basis,
considering the premium Mrs P wouldve paid to include commuting  against what she
actually paid.
Ive also thought about the impact all of this had on Mrs P. She describes feeling very
distressed that her claim wasnt covered. The thought of being liable for the damage to the
third-party vehicle caused her a great deal of anxiety. She was also unable to repair or
replace her own car and so had no vehicle as a result of the declined claim. I think its fair
that Berkshire pays Mrs P £200 compensation for the worry and inconvenience this caused 
her.
I said I was intending to uphold Mrs Ps complaint and Berkshire should:
reconsider Mrs Ps claim on a proportional basis, without relying on the commuting
exclusion; and
pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mrs P.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Berkshire didnt respond with any further information or comments. 
Mrs P didnt respond with any further comments or information either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Berkshire Hathaway International 
Insurance Ltd should:
reconsider Mrs Ps claim on a proportional basis, without relying on the commuting
exclusion; and
pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mrs P.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman