DRN-2937984
The complaint
Miss G is complaining about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard for having
irresponsibly lent to her.  
What happened
Miss G was accepted for a Barclaycard credit card in September 2017 with a credit limit of
£3,800. Barclaycard increased the credit limit in September 2018 to £5,300. She used some
of the original credit limit to transfer balances from other providers to a 0% promotional
interest rate with Barclaycard.
Miss G complained to Barclaycard that they had irresponsibly lent to her. She said that she
was a single mother, her income was different benefits and she had other unsecured
borrowing at the time of the application. Miss G believed that Barclaycard didnt complete
sufficient credit checks on her and if they had done so then they shouldnt have accepted her
application or increased her credit limit. She asked Barclaycard to refund any interest or
charges shes paid and to remove any negative data from her credit file.
Barclaycard say they considered the information on the application form and carried out
checks which confirmed the credit card was affordable. They say that they would include
benefit income into affordability calculations as it was regular income. Barclaycard also
explained that they wouldnt have increased the credit limit if they didnt think Miss G could
afford the repayments and so they didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss G explained she is in financial difficulty. She informed Barclaycard of this on 15
September 2020. Barclaycard wrote to her on 18 September 2020 to get in touch with them
to discuss this. Her account is currently with collections. The collections team tried to contact
Miss G via letter, text message and telephone to discuss this. Barclaycard say Miss G told
them in November she was making token payments of £20 a month towards the outstanding
balance. Since then, Miss G got in touch with Barclaycards Specialist Support Team (SST)
and they agreed a reduced repayment plan with her. Barclaycard said that as she agreed to
the reduced repayment plan they have stopped all charges from being applied to her
account.
Miss G didnt agree with the outcome of her complaint so brought it to our service. Our
investigator didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint. The investigator said that Barclaycard had
shown that she said she was employed with income of £13,000 and used this and other
information, including details from her credit file which shows the credit was affordable. Miss
G had generally kept her account in good order and often made payments above the
minimum monthly repayment, even after the credit limit increased. This would indicate that
the repayments were affordable. Miss G didnt agree with the investigators outcome so she
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I must explain to Miss G that as she made a complaint to Barclaycard regarding
irresponsible lending and not for financial difficulty then I do not have consent from
Barclaycard to look at the financial difficulty aspect of the complaint shes brought to this
service. This is because Barclaycard said that her financial difficulty was only brought to their
attention after they had issued their final response letter. But they have said that if Miss G
wants them to investigate this for her as a separate complaint then she can contact them to
do so. As a result, I will just be looking at if Barclaycard have irresponsibly lent to Miss G.
Barclaycard are entitled to decide who to lend to and, if theyre willing to lend, how much and
on what terms. What Barclaycard need to have done before lending to Miss G, is to have
made proportionate and reasonable checks to see whether the credit card was affordable
and sustainable for her.
Barclaycard have provided me the application details. This shows that Miss G stated her
annual income was £13,000. Barclaycard need to consider what the Financial Conduct
Authority handbook says here. That the Consumer Credit sourcebook - (CONC) states
(CONC 5.2A.16 (3)) For the purpose of considering the customers income under CONC
5.2A.15R, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made
by the customer without independent evidence. So, Barclaycard say they considered this
information alongside credit checks to look at whether she could afford the card. The credit
checks would enable them to see payments made to other providers were being made, the
amount of monthly payments and whether these were paid on time. Having made these
checks Barclaycard were satisfied Miss G could afford the card even if she had other
unsecured debt.
Miss G wasnt actually employed and had substantially less income than what was declared
on the application form. So if Miss G wasnt working at the time she applied for the credit
card, I cant see that Barclaycard could have been aware of this unless she told them this
was the case. But I cant see that she did. So Ive thought about whether Barclaycards
checks were fair and proportionate here. Im not persuaded they were, and Ill explain why.
Miss G did have external debt prior to applying for the Barclaycard. And she was making
payments to these accounts. But she also had available credit that she could have used on
these accounts so it would have been reasonable for Barclaycard to consider this prior to
granting the credit limit increase. For example, prior to the credit limit increase she had a
credit card limit with a third party of £3,750. At the time she had a balance of approximately
£400 but Barclaycard would need to consider her overall position and the possibility that she
could use up all of that limit. Miss G says she was borrowing from friends and family and
winnings from gambling to make these payments. The initial limit Barclaycard gave her
substantially increased her available credit. The initial credit limit alone would be nearly four
times her declared monthly income. So in these circumstances I dont think it would have
been unreasonable to have expected Barclaycard to validate some of the information Miss G
had given them.
Im persuaded that if Barclaycard had requested further information from Miss G such as a
payslip or bank statements, they would have seen that she wasnt employed. I have seen
her bank statements and they only show income from benefits, gambling withdrawals and
friends and family. And while they still may lend to someone in receipt of benefits, Im
satisfied that they would have also seen that her income was substantially less then
declared and that she had a reliance on meeting her outgoings through borrowing from
friends and family and/or gambling winnings. Her statements show small credits from family
and friends and they often show more outgoings than the benefits she receives. The three
bank statements leading up to the credit limit increase show that she is frequently utilisingher overdraft. So Barclaycard wouldve seen that the credit limit they initially made available
to her would have been approximately six times her actual benefit income and so Im not
persuaded they would have given her the credit limit they did for these reasons.
Ive considered Miss Gs circumstances regarding the credit limit increase. Barclaycard said
they used a third party company to assess Miss Gs income and outgoings to give a
confidence of the income Miss G has crediting her bank account. But Im not persuaded that
this took into account Miss Gs personal circumstances at the time and Ill explain why.
Miss G has said that before her credit limit was increased by Barclaycard she had increased
her external debt. Barclaycard have said that Miss G had £1,400 external debt at the time of
the increase, so they didnt feel that she was over indebted. But if the third party did look at
the income and outgoings of Miss Gs bank account they will have seen that she wouldve
been relying on friends and family and gambling winnings to meet her outgoings. This is
demonstrated by her bank statements prior to being accepted initially for the credit card. On
her June 2017 statement it shows several small deposits which Miss G has said she needed
to borrow from friends and family to meet her outgoings.
On Miss Gs August 2017 bank statement her monthly credits are showing as £1,085.86 but
£320 of this is from a gambling site. Im satisfied that this wouldve also shown that she did
not have the disposable income to ensure the repayments would be sustainable for Miss G.
So while the third party may be able to view income and outgoings, Im not persuaded that
Barclaycard did make proportionate checks on these occasions as her actual individual
circumstances werent analysed compared to the credit limit Barclaycard initially offered her
and in relation to the credit limit increase. So I intend to ask Barclaycard to put things right
for Miss G.
Here, I think its fair that Miss G repays what shes borrowed from Barclaycard (as shes had
the use of the money), but only that amount. I dont think its fair that shes disadvantaged by
having to pay back any more than this.
So, my decision is that Barclaycard should remove all interest and charges applied to the
account and recalculate what (if anything) Miss G owes from the initial amount she borrowed
(taking account of any payments shes made). As Im persuaded that had Barclaycard
completed further checks which were proportionate to her individual circumstances, they
wouldnt have lent to her. They should also remove any adverse information from Miss Gs
credit file relating to the Barclaycard credit card.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Miss G said she was happy with the provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add. Barclaycard had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further points to add to my provisional decision then my final 
decision and reasoning remain the same. It follows that Ill now be telling Barclaycard what 
theyll need to do to put things right here.  
Putting things rightIn my provisional decision I suggested Barclaycard should refund all interest and charges 
applied to the account from the date the account was opened to the date of any final 
decision; If at any period this resulted in Miss Gs account being in credit, pay 8 per cent 
simple annual interest on the date that balance arose to the date of settlement;
And remove any adverse entries on Miss Gs credit file. Im still satisfied this is a fair 
outcome for the reasons given previously. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard should:
Refund all interest and charges applied to the account from the date the account was
opened to the date of any final decision;
If at any period this resulted in Miss Gs account being in credit, pay 8 per cent simple
annual interest on the date that balance arose to the date of settlement;
And remove any adverse entries on Miss Gs credit file.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman