DRN-3730368
The complaint
Mrs S complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave her unsuitable investment advice in 
1993 which caused her financial loss.
Mrs S brought her complaint through a representative but to help keep things simpler, Ill just 
refer in my decision to Mrs S as the complainant. 
What happened
Acting on Barclays recommendation, on 1 December 1993, Mrs S paid £10,000 into each of 
the following funds:
The Scottish Widows with-profits endowment  matured on 26 November 2013  
value was £36,143.39.
Eagle Star Unit-Linked Rainbow Bond  surrendered 9 November 2009  value was 
£23,843.67.
In February 2020, Mrs S complained to Barclays that when it had advised her and made its 
investment recommendations, it was the wrong time for her to invest, she was advised to 
invest too much of her available funds and she was advised to take too much risk.
In its final response letter, dated 1 April 2021, Barclays said that although she had only 
complained about the Scottish Widows plan, its investigation into her complaint had revealed 
she was also recommended for the Eagle Star Bond at the same time. So it had looked into 
both investments. Barclays upheld her complaint because, due to the lack of paperwork from 
the time, it had been unable to confirm that these investments were suitable for her. Barclays 
explained that it couldnt be certain the recommendations to invest in risk based products 
were suitable or that the amounts invested were appropriate so it had concluded that she 
should have retained all of her savings in cash. 
To put things right, Barclays calculated interest from the commencement date of the 
investments up until the end date using the prevailing Bank of England base rate (BoE) to 
establish a benchmark figure for interest  which it compared against actual interest Mrs S 
had earned. Barclays explained that it had attempted to put Mrs S in the position she would 
otherwise have been in had she not invested in these funds and instead kept her money in a 
savings account.
Taking this approach, Barclays found that Mrs S had made a comparative loss on the 
Scottish Widows plan as it had paid her £169.33 below the benchmark. It said that 8% 
simple interest on £169.33 (worked out from the date of surrender to the date of its final 
response letter) amounted to £100.61. 
Barclays said it would deduct £20.12 from this redress to reflect basic rate tax owing to 
HMRC from the overall total as it was required to do. 
Barclays said the Eagle Star Bond had paid out £1,931.60 above the benchmark so Mrs S 
was better off because she had invested  and so no further compensation was due. 
This led to Barclays offering to pay Mrs S £249.82 in settlement of her complaint about 
unsuitable advice.
Barclays also offered to pay Mrs S a further £200 compensation by way of an apology to say 
sorry for how long the investigation had taken.
Mrs S didnt feel Barclays response went far enough to put things right and so she brought 
her complaint to us in June 2021. She thought that the benchmark used by Barclays to 
calculate redress was incorrect as it didnt match the current redress guidelines she thought 
the Financial Ombudsman Service would apply after 1 February 1996. Barclays had 
compared the full investment to the Bank of England (BoE) rates. Mrs S felt that Barclays 
should have used a combination of rates to calculate fair redress - BoE base rate up to 
1 February 1996 and from that date onwards, BoE average return from Fixed Rate Bonds 
with 12-17 months maturity.
One of our investigators considered Mrs S complaint. He first considered whether the 
complaint was in our jurisdiction and was satisfied, as Barclays had given its consent to us 
investigating Mrs S complaint, this was a complaint he could look at.
Our investigator said he didnt need to look into the merits of Mrs S complaint as Barclays 
had already upheld it  he would concentrate on whether its redress proposals were fair and 
reasonable. 
He felt that Barclays had correctly applied the BoE rate to calculate redress from December 
1993  but that it should have used the FRB rates from the date they came into use in 
February 1996. He explained how he had come to his view and set out what he thought 
Barclays needed to do to put things right.
Barclays disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, it disputed the approach 
our investigator was recommending. In support of its position it relied on another decision 
where the investment had started prior to FRB rates and closed in 2018 - a scenario it 
compared this case to  and said BoE was used all the way through.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S complaint concerns investments she was advised to take out almost thirty years ago 
and unsurprisingly, there is only limited documentary evidence now available. So Ive based 
my decision on the available information from both parties. Having done so, I am upholding 
the complaint but I disagree with the approach to redress taken by our investigator. So 
I think its fairer for me to set out what I think in a provisional decision so the parties have a 
final opportunity to comment further if they would like to before I issue a final decision. 
Suitability of adviceWhilst I am able to consider the suitability of the initial advice to open these investment 
accounts, in this case, the suitability of the advice Barclays gave Mrs S isnt any longer in 
dispute. 
In its final response letter Barclays upheld Mrs S complaint and said:
Due to having  very limited  paperwork,  I cannot  be certain  the recommendations  to 
invest  in risk based  products  were  suitable  or that the amounts  you invested  were  
appropriate.  I can only therefore  conclude  that you should  have  retained  all of your 
savings  in cash.
In these circumstances, I dont need to consider suitability further and I have concentrated 
on looking at the approach Barclays has taken to put things right for Mrs S.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs S as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
Barclays approach is based on Mrs S having not invested at all as initial documents 
detailing suitability are not available. Its view is that the return Mrs S shouldve received 
should be in line with Bank of England (BoE) base rate. 
Mrs S feels a different benchmark would be appropriate for working out redress from 
February 1996 (which would increase the redress amount). 
I think Mrs S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs S' circumstances and objectives when she invested.
To put things right, the usual Ombudsman approach would be that Barclays should compare 
the return of Mrs S investment to the benchmark we recommend for no-risk based 
investments dating back to this period  and for this purpose, we look to the rates published 
by the Bank of England showing the average return from one-year fixed rate bonds. This 
doesnt mean I think that Mrs S should have invested into a fixed interest deposit account  
instead, this is the sort of return she would have got with little or no risk to her money. So 
I think thats a fair benchmark to use here.
If this comparison shows a loss, Barclays would need to pay this loss and add 8% simple 
interest per year to this figure from the date Mrs S closed her investments to the date of 
settlement.
And, in line with the way we would expect a financial business to put things right in these 
circumstances, this benchmark should apply to the whole period that Mrs S was unsuitably 
invested in the Scottish Widows policy and Eagle Star Bond. The data for fixed rate bonds 
published by the BoE only begins from January 1996. So if the investment was taken out 
prior to January 1996, then the Ombudsman approach is that the benchmark to use should 
be the BoE base rate plus 1% interest.
Barclays also agreed to pay £200 to compensate Mrs S for the delay in dealing with her 
complaint. This is in addition to any amount calculated for her investment loss. This seems 
fair to me and in line with what this service would have awarded.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs S and Barclays have both confirmed they prefer their own views on what redress is 
appropriate and I have engaged in further correspondence with the parties about this.
The deadline for responses has now passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with 
my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter.
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure both parties that I've thought carefully about everything again 
before coming to my final decision and taken into account everything they have asked me to 
reconsider.  
I appreciate that the parties each take a different view but, for the reasons I explained more 
fully in my provisional decision I still think its fair to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Barclays should do the following:
compare the performance of Mrs S's investments with the benchmarks shown below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable
carry out a separate calculation for each investment.
also pay interest as set out below 
pay £200 compensation to Mrs S as Barclays as offered (if that hasnt already 
happened) 
provide details of its redress calculation to Mrs S set out in a clear, understandable 
format.
Note that Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmark from (start 
date)to (end date) additional interestScottish 
Widows with-
profits 
endowmentNo longer 
existsAverage BoE 
base rate+1% 
interest  
Date of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Eagle Star 
Unit-linked 
Rainbow 
BondNo longer 
existsAs aboveDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mrs S paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Barclays totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically. If any distributions or income were automatically 
paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine 
the fair value, and not periodically.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money since the 
end date.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to take the steps I've set out above 
to put things right for Mrs S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman