DRN-3645946
The complaint
Mr C has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) charges are contributing to his 
financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr C complained to HSBC about the charges applied to his overdraft. HSBC issued its final 
response to this on 8 June 2020. Mr C referred his complaint to our service on 15 March 
2022 but because it was referred more than six months after HSBC issued its final response 
letter we couldnt look at Mr Cs complaint as it was referred to us outside the time limits.
HSBC did agree to consider Mr Cs complaint regarding its charges from the date of its final 
response letter (8 June 2020). 
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought having reviewed 
Mr Cs statements from 8 June 2020 that there werent any signs Mr C was in financial 
difficulty and didnt think HSBC had applied charges unfairly.
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
I invited both parties to let me have further submissions before I reached a final decision and 
neither Mr C or HSBC have added anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im currently intending to find that HSBC 
acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it 
issued its final response letter in June 2020 and I currently think it shouldve stepped in by 8 
July 2020.  By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr C was in no position to 
sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr C had already got in contact with HSBC to ask for help as he was having 
difficulty with his finances and that the charges being added were making this worse.
 
Following HSBC issuing its final response letter I think it was clear from Mr Cs statements 
that Mr C was still having difficulty managing his money. Mr Cs statements show that he 
was consistently overdrawn, exceeding his limit and direct debits were being returned. In 
these circumstances, it ought to have been apparent that Mr C was at a significant risk of 
experiencing financial difficulty and so should have been treated with forbearance rather 
than having had even more interest, fees and charges added to his overdraft.
Mr C ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt 
treat Mr C fairly and he lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint. 
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Cs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after 8 July 2020 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr C to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Mr 
C is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mr Cs credit file, HSBC should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft on 8 July 2020 
HSBC can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr C over their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr C along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file. HSBC can also 
reduce Mr Cs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
Your text hereUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman