DRN-2058856
The complaint
Mr H complains about Lloyds Bank Plc and their decision not pay the outstanding amount he 
found in a passbook belonging to his late father.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr H found a passbook that related to an old savings account owned by his 
father with Bank D. This passbook showed an outstanding amount of nine shillings and 
sixpence in 1963. 
Mr H discovered that Lloyds took over Bank D in the mid 1970s so he thought Lloyds should 
pay him the outstanding amount plus interest which would be shared between him and his 
brother. But Lloyds were unable to locate an account on their systems. So, they explained 
they were unable to pay Mr H the amount he thought he was entitled. 
Mr H was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint. While he understood it had been a 
significant period of time since the last time the passbook was used, he still thought the 
passbook showed there was an outstanding amount that he should be paid. He didnt think it 
was reasonable for Lloyds to deny knowledge of the account. So, he wanted the full amount 
paid to him plus the interest it wouldve accrued since 1963.
Lloyds didnt agree. They explained theyre only legally obliged to keep customer records for 
10 years. As Mr Hs father passed away in 1997, they didnt think it was unreasonable for 
them to have no customer information about the accounts he held. But they explained they 
searched their records using the address information, name and date of birth Mr H had 
provided, and no accounts had been found. As they couldnt find the account, they couldnt 
confirm if there was an outstanding amount. So, they thought their decision not to pay Mr H 
was fair. Mr H remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He didnt think Lloyds acted 
unfairly by no longer retaining Mr Hs fathers account information as they only had an 
obligation to do so for 10 years. And because there was no account information, he was 
unable to be sure that there was an open account with an amount that should be paid to Mr 
H.  So, he didnt think it would be fair to say Lloyds had acted unreasonably by not paying 
the amount to Mr H and he didnt think they needed to do anything further.
Mr H didnt agree with this view. He thought that the only evidence available was the 
passbook he had in his possession. So, he thought this made it most likely the account 
remained open and the amount was outstanding. Because of this, he maintained he should 
be paid the amount plus interest. As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
First, I want to recognise the frustration this situation has caused Mr H. I understand why, 
with the physical passbook in his possession, Mr H feels strongly that the account is still 
open. And I can appreciate that as Lloyds no longer hold any account information for Mr Hs 
father, its difficult for Mr H to accept the account may be closed. But for me to say Lloyds 
have acted unfairly, Id need to be more certain that not that the account is still open. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Its important to note, due to the length of time that has passed since the passbook was last 
used, and the passing of Mr Hs father, that there is very little tangible evidence to base this 
decision on. 
I understand Mr Hs point of view that he has the physical passbook and this shows an 
outstanding amount in the account. So, I can understand why, based on this alone, he sees 
this as evidence the money is due to be paid to him. But I dont think the passbook alone is 
enough to say the account remained open.
Firstly, Lloyds have confirmed if the account was open, it shouldve been located on their 
system. And it wasnt. Theyve also confirmed that it was common for money to be 
withdrawn and accounts closed without the need for the passbook to be present. Ive also 
had to consider the account was originally with Bank D before Lloyds took over the account. 
In this situation, I dont think it would be unfair to suggest when Lloyds took over the account, 
new passbooks couldve been issued. And there is always the possibility this passbook Mr H 
holds was considered lost, and a new one issued in its place.
I understand none of these scenarios are certainties. But when these possible scenarios are 
considered alongside the fact Lloyds were unable to locate an open account on their system, 
it leads me to believe the account was more than likely closed at some point between the 
last use of the passbook and Mr Hs father passing. So, I cant say Lloyds have acted 
unfairly by not paying Mr H the amount in the passbook plus interest. Because of this, I dont 
think they need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman