DRN-4503948
The complaint
Miss B complains about the service provided by Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money in administering her accounts over a number of months from May 2022.
What happened
From June to October 2022 Miss B opened 11 ISA accounts with Virgin. This was to take 
advantage of increasing interest rates. Some of the accounts were closed within the 14-day 
cooling off period. She suffered difficulties, including but not limited to online not operating 
correctly, issues between Virgins platforms and systems, staffing issues, unfulfilled 
promises, documents, and instructions going astray or ignored. She and her mother spent a 
long time on the telephone trying to sort matters out. 
Virgin explained that since the merger between Clydesdale and Virgin Money, a number of 
accounts were on different platforms and internally there are separate teams who administer 
these and it has separate online access to the different products. It was sorry for any 
confusion this caused. It was also sorry that Miss Bs complaint had not been fully addressed 
across either platform, and for the additional contact, distress and inconvenience this 
caused. It recognised Miss B wished to invoke her 14-day cooling off period on a number of 
occasions and opened a number of accounts to take advantage of new products being 
launched. While this did result in her having to make additional requests to it, it was sorry for 
any delay in carrying out any of her requests. Virgin said it is required to confirm the identity 
on all new accounts opened. 
Virgin reached an agreement with Miss B that a new ISA would be opened to replace a 
closed ISA, with interest at the then current rate backdated to June 2022. Virgin also agreed 
to pay £275 compensation. This was a like for like product so Miss B could continue to take 
advantage of the tax rules that applied to ISAs. However Miss B expected the ISA to mature 
in June 2023 but Virgin advised that the original maturity date of October 2023 would apply. 
She insisted that the agreement reached was for the maturity date to be in June 2023. When 
she closed the account in July 2023, Virgin applied a penalty, which Miss B believed was 
unfair. She believed that Virgin should refund the penalty it charged to her. 
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator thought that Virgin had 
resolved Miss Bs complaint appropriately. He could not find that Virgin had agreed an earlier 
maturity date or that it was wrong to apply a penalty when the account was closed early.
Miss B did not agree, and believed that she had a contractual agreement with Virgin, which 
she only agreed to on the basis that she would be able to close the account in June 2023. 
She said that she had not signed any documents to say that she accepted the terms and 
conditions of the new ISA.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I recognise that Miss B suffered poor customer service from Virgin. This was 
partly caused by the merged businesses having different platforms for her various accounts. 
Also when she opened new accounts she had to repeat the ID process. I dont think the 
repeated ID process was unreasonable in itself, but I recognise that Miss B suffered 
difficulties with communication and delays which caused her distress and inconvenience. 
And Virgin recognised this too. I do think however that the £275 paid was an appropriate 
award of compensation. An award of that amount would be appropriate where the service 
provided has caused more than the levels of frustration and annoyance that might be 
reasonably expected from day-to-day life, and the impact has been more than just minimal, 
where an apology wont be enough to remedy the mistake.
In respect of the agreement over the ISA, as both parties have agreed to the matter being 
reviewed by the Financial Ombudsman Service, I will look at the said agreement and 
consider whether it was reasonable. But I do recognise first of all that if the parties had 
agreed upon a maturity date for the replacement ISA then it wouldn't be fair to set a later 
maturity date.
In the course of the telephone calls with Miss B or her mother I can find no agreement that , 
for the replacement ISA, a maturity date of June 2023 would apply. I appreciate that the rate 
of interest was backdated to June 2022 but the agreement was to replace an ISA which was 
due to mature in October 2023. This was so that Miss B could have the full advantage of the 
tax rules relating to ISAs. I know that Miss B emailed Virgin to set out her view about the 
arrangement reached, but in response Virgin specifically stated that it could not change the 
maturity dates.
As regards Miss B advising that she had not accepted new terms and conditions, as this was 
a like for like replacement of the old ISA and Miss B had accepted the terms and conditions 
for that, I think that the parties were fully aware of the agreement they had reached.
As for the agreement itself, it replaces the old ISA with a new one with a favourable rate of 
interest backdated, I think that was reasonable. I understand that, with interest rates rising 
Miss B wanted to take advantage of them, but I don't think that in those circumstances it was 
unreasonable for Virgin to apply the penalty for closing the ISA early.
My final decision
As I think that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money fairly and reasonably dealt with 
Miss B's complaint, I won't require it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman