DRN-1649752
 
The complaint
 Mr H complains on behalf of himself and his family  comprised of his wife (Mrs H) and two 
daughters (Ms A and Ms H)  whom I will refer to individually or intermittently as the family. 
  
Theyre unhappy about the way that Forester Life Limited trading as Foresters (the business) 
has dealt with their requests for information regarding their investments.
Mr H says that because they havent received the information they requested, as a family 
theyve been unable to decide whether or not to surrender their investments or carry on. 
They remain concerned about the poor growth whilst third party investments (invested in 
similar funds) seem to be doing better, and feel that theyve been denied the opportunity to 
take action sooner. 
 
What happened
In August 2018, the business offered to pay the family £50 compensation and a refund of 
premiums paid between April 2017 and August 2018. But Mr H didnt think that this was fair 
given the delays, inconvenience and worry caused. 
The business later offered £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused (taking into 
account the delays) as full and final settlement of the complaint. However, it said that 
because the surrender value exceeded the refund of premiums, it was no longer going to 
offer a refund of premiums. 
Mr H didnt think this was fair as the delays and lack of information had prevented them from 
investing differently. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said: 
 
Our service doesnt generally consider complaints concerning investment 
performance. And poor performance isnt evidence of why the family wouldve 
surrendered early. 
On 23 July 2018, Ms A and Ms H were sent letters explaining the surrender values. 
Further letters were sent on 15 August 2018, by which time the family had the 
information that they requested. 
Whilst Mr H wanted all the information at the same time, the business inability to do 
this hasnt prevented the family from making individual decisions. And theres nothing 
to suggest that the family wouldve behaved any differently even if theyd received 
this information sooner. The information requested by the family required actuarial input that led to delays, 
and thats why the business increased its offer of compensation to £250 which is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
The business should nevertheless provide any information thats missing.   
 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
 
The investigator hasnt grasped the crux of the complaint which is more about the 
poor service than about investment performance. The business has provided an 
inadequate response over the years.  
Despite making a formal complaint the business hasnt provided the information 
requested.  
They dont feel that surrender values alone in the absence of other information is 
useful for the purposes of deciding what to do.  
Theyd like evidence to show that the business offer is superior to the surrender 
value of the investments, bearing in mind theyve continued to pay towards the 
investments.
Its only Mr H whos been offered any compensation despite the family being equally 
affected by the issues. The amount was, and still is, inadequate. 
They would like the following: 
oFair individual compensation for each of the complainants. 
oThe business to provide the requested information 
oIf any party decide to surrender their investment they should be entitled to a 
refund of their premiums. 
 
The investigator having considered the additional points made wasnt persuaded to change 
his mind. In summary, he said:
 
Bonuses are applied at the business discretion; its not for us to determine whether 
or not its fair. 
The £250 compensation is for the trouble and upset caused, and isnt in lieu of any 
surrender. 
He hasnt missed the crux of the complaint and hes aware the issue has been going 
on since 2016. 
Even if the family were missing some information it still didnt stop them from 
complaining sooner. 
The family wouldve had to continue to pay the premiums in order to prevent the 
plans from lapsing. Hes unable to say that the business is responsible for any 
losses. 
Whilst the service couldve been better the family couldve brought their complaint 
 sooner.  
 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators points and made the following key points: 
 The business still hasnt provided all of information  at the same time and to all four 
complainants  which is still preventing them from making a decision.
Theyve not complained until recently because theyve been trying to resolve matters 
with the business themselves.
Theyre unhappy about bonuses not being paid. 
Despite the investigators request only three sets of revised surrender values have 
been provided. Theyd like our service to obtain the following for them:
oAll four surrender values around the same date.
oAverage performance achieved for each individual plan on maturity in accordance 
with FCAs figures.
oProjections figures and what may be achieved on each plan at maturity in line with 
FCA figures.  
oAn apology and some recognition of the premiums theyve paid since the start of 
making these requests. Theyd also like an additional payment for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
At my suggestion the investigator proposed a higher level of compensation that the business 
accepted.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to partially uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think the latest offer made by the 
business is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling the family have about this matter. 
Mr H has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading  its not what Im required to do  in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points. 
I appreciate Mr H feels that the crux of his complaint has been missed, but I dont agree and 
Im sorry he feels that way. My role is to consider the evidence presented by him and the 
business, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on 
the facts of the case, rather than take any sides.  
Its not my role to regulate or punish the business for any alleged breaches, thats the role of 
the industry regulator the FCA. My role is to consider whether or not it has done anything 
wrong. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice but, perhaps unlike a court or tribunal, Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
I dont think £250 compensation for failing to acknowledge and deal with the familys letters 
and the delays is reasonable. It doesnt take into account the individual family members and 
the differing levels of trouble and upset theyre likely to have experienced. 
I think the business should the pay the family £450 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused, made up of the following:  
 
£175 to Mr H
£125 to Mrs H
£75 to Ms A
£75 to Ms H
  
Im not persuaded that the family have all been equally affected by the issues in this case. I 
think the distress and inconvenience has been felt most by Mr H and then Mrs H. And the 
impact has been less so on Ms A and Ms H. But they are of course free to divide 
compensation award differently if they choose to. 
I appreciate that the family wanted all the information (together at the same time) so that 
they could collectively make important decisions about their individual investments. And not 
having this information sooner prevented them from making this decision earlier and thereby 
avoiding potential losses.   
Whilst I appreciate the familys reasons for requesting this information, I dont quite follow 
their reasoning. I dont think the business was obliged to provide the information in the 
manner sought  four sets of documents in respect of four individual investments all at the 
same time  and Im not aware of it ever undertaking to do so. Thats why I dont think that 
the overall compensation should be any higher.   
Whilst I acknowledge the business has individual relationships with each of the family 
members, it doesnt have any particular obligation towards them as a group  in the way that 
it might with a joint policy  so I dont think I can blame it for not being able to provide this 
information to all of them at the same time. Although in recent times I can see that its 
endeavoured to do so even though its not been successful.    
 Im conscious that the investments are individual and require individual input from the 
business actuaries which takes time, especially if the business is being asked to obtain 
future projections, and thats partly what has caused the delay. 
But I think the business shouldve been clearer about this, and other unexplained delays.  I 
think it shouldve also done more to manage the familys expectations, and provide clearer 
information about what it could and couldnt provide.  
I agree with the investigator that despite missing some information, the family were generally 
in a reasonable position to make a decision about the future of their investments but chose 
not to. 
In other words, Im broadly satisfied that the information theyd been provided over July and 
August 2018 (notwithstanding missing information), and since then, allowed them to make a 
reasonable decisions about the future of their investments, and not having surrender forms didnt prevent them from taking steps to surrender their investments. Instead this issue has 
been bubbling away since 2016/2017 without any kind of apparent urgency.  
Because of this, and in the absence of any evidence of the family trying to surrender one or 
more of their plans early  despite what Mr H says  Im unable to safely say that the 
business prevented them from taking action sooner, or that its now responsible for any 
losses in their investments. 
I understand that the family may be missing some information, in light of what Ive said, it will 
be helpful for the business to make clear what its able to provide and by when. I understand 
that since the investigators view the family were missing only one surrender value, but 
would now like all the surrender values sent again by a particular date. The business should 
endeavour to provide this information, but as Ive said I cant blame it for not being able to do 
so by a specific date.   
If any of the family decide to surrender their investment theyre free to do so as its a matter 
for them. If they do decide to surrender the plans having received additional information, I 
dont think they should be entitled to any refund of premiums as Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable. Theyve continued to pay premiums in order to keep their 
investments going  and theyve done so of their own volition  and as Ive mentioned 
above, nothing prevented them from surrendering earlier.  
The family should also be aware projections are only that, and dont guarantee any level of 
return. So when they do get this information the business wont be bound by its contents. 
I know that the family have requested a number of documents, but its not for us to obtain 
this on behalf of the family. The business is now aware and I hope it will endeavour to 
provide this information, or if its unable to it will make this clear to the family in an effort to 
manage their expectations.  
I appreciate the family will be disappointed that Ive only partially upheld this complaint. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate their 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything more than what Ive suggested 
below. 
 
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Forester Life Limited 
should pay the following amounts for the trouble and upset caused:
£175 compensation to Mr H
£125 compensation to Mrs H
£75 compensation to Ms A
£75 compensation to Ms H
 
Forester Life Limited should also endeavour to provide the missing information to Mr H, Mrs 
H, Ms A and Ms H, and keep them informed if its unable to do so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A, Ms H, Mr H 
and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Dara IslamOmbudsman