DRN-2831784
The complaint
Mr O complains as a director of D, a dentists practice and a limited company, that AXA
Insurance UK Plc overcharged D in respect of its commercial surgery policy from 2010 until
2020 when D cancelled the policy.
What happened
D had had a policy underwritten by AXA since 2010 when its policy taken out through its
bank migrated from another underwriter. The policy increased in price over the years
generally in line with insurance pricing and increases in insurance premium tax. There were
two large increases in the premium, by 25.70% after the first year and in 2017 by 24.2%
when an expensive contents item was added to the policy. The premium in 2020 was set at
£8,074.29.
In 2020, following an unsuccessful claim on the policy, Mr O spoke to his broker who was
able to get him a surgery policy for around £1,400. The broker was also able to get a quote
from AXA itself for an Office and Surgery policy for £1,132. Mr O complained to AXA who
said that the policies were not similar, that it had advised D over the years of its right to shop
around and in particular that in 2019 it had made efforts to get in touch to discuss renewal
terms but was told the practice was too busy.
On referral to this service AXA explained that it was bound by a contract with Ds bank not to
move the practice to a new policy until after 2018. But it further explained taking into account
the information it had about D, that it wouldnt have been able to move D to the policy offered
through the broker and the policy wouldnt have been available through it directly.
Our investigator said that D should be regarded as an inert customer who hadnt engaged
with AXA over the price for a number of years. He felt that AXA wasnt able to justify the
increase in price over the years. As a result he said that AXA should reduce the policy price
back to the 2014 renewal and refund the difference in premiums after that date with interest.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I didnt think that D was an inert customer. 
Employees of the practice had been engaging with the business for a number of years. And I 
said AXA had given reasons for the rise in premiums from 2016. I also said that an 
alternative policy wasnt, in my view, available to D directly through AXA.
Mr O didnt agree with my provisional findings:
He contacted the broker not specifically because of his claim being turned down but 
following conversations with a colleague in another practice.
He would regard himself as "inert" with respect to the cost of the insurance policy as he 
had assumed that he was getting a reasonable / fair rate premium for the policy from 
AXA and did not see the need to "shop around." If AXA did try to contact him, it would 
have been during surgery hours when he was unlikely to have been available.
He was unaware of AXAs contract with his bank.
He points out that the policy being offered by AXA was about £6,000 less than he was 
paying. He could have purchased a similar level of insurance though AXA for a 
substantially lower premium (by 370%).
AXA had no further comment to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether D really could be described as inert, a customer who hadnt
engaged with the insurer over a number of years, not realising or being in a position to
understand that they might have been able to obtain insurance on better terms.
Firstly can AXA justify the increases in the premiums over the years and thus show that it
had not sought to take advantage of a customer who might be inert? This was a commercial
policy for an established dental practice. As our investigator has explained, the insurance
market today doesnt reflect the premiums that were charged ten years ago. The price of the
policy itself increased after the first year (in 2011) by 25.7%, something which wouldnt be
unusual as the policy may have been discounted in its first year.
The reason for the increases in price after that have been explained by AXA as index linking,
the increases in insurance premium tax and general increases in the market. The annual
premium increases up until 2016 were 10%, 9.5%, 4.9%, 4.2% and 4.6%. The reason for the
heavy increase in the 2017 renewal was because midway through the 2016-2017 policy year
D had contacted AXA to advise that it wanted a £40,000 piece of equipment added to the
policy. This resulted in an increase in premium of 24.2% proportionate to the value added to
the contents. The following years increases were 6.6%,2.4% and 7.9% (the latter being the
2020 proposed increase). I think the increases in premium were reasonable and
proportionate.
The reasons Mr O has given for not querying the price of the policy were that he could have
shopped around but he assumed he was getting a decent deal and hadnt realised there was
such a big difference in price. I dont think however that I would describe D as an inert
customer who had failed to engage with AXA on any level. Certainly from 2016 onwards
there were several contacts between AXA and D, adding the contents item, advising of
changes in employees and changing the terms of payment. I havent seen the renewal
letters from 2014 to 2016 but I think it fair to assume that at least from the 2017 renewal
(when the Financial Conduct Authority regulations changed) it was specifically pointed out to
the policyholder that it was free to shop around. And I dont think that Mr O didnt know he
could have changed insurers. Ive noted further that in 2019 AXA made several attempts to
get through to D to review the policy and the price but although a member of staff contacted
AXA they explained they were too busy to talk about the renewal, which went ahead. Mr Os
reason for contacting a broker in 2020 was because of an unsuccessful claim, rather than
concern about the renewal price.
Ive considered whether there was an alternative policy available and whether because of
AXAs contractual agreement with Ds bank, it unfairly kept D on a costly policy. The quote
for the new policy with AXA was one that could only be obtained through brokers. AXA says
it wasnt like for like, in particular the new policy didnt include buildings which the old policy
did. And it says that given the information it had about D, it wouldnt have been able to move
D the new policy. So I dont think there was a suitable alternative new policy which AXA
could have moved D onto.So taking into account that D could have shopped around but chose not to, that the
increases in premiums from 2014 were proportionate and that AXA didnt have a suitable
new policy to offer D, I dont think that its reasonable to expect AXA to be refunding any
premiums on its policy.
For reasons I have set out in my provisional findings we would not regard D (or Mr O) as 
being inert. When we look at whether a customer is inert we say its from about the fourth 
renewal (here in 2014). But as Ive said there was engagement with AXA over the terms of 
the policy over the years and I dont think that Mr O was unaware of his ability to shop 
around. It was his responsibility to consider the terms of his insurance. AXA has shown that 
the price rises from 2014 were proportionate so it cant be said that it was taking advantage 
of D.
I understand Mr Os point about the alternative AXA policy. But for reasons I have explained 
in my provisional findings, I dont think this was available to D, even in 2019. It may be that 
AXA could have reduced the premiums by a small amount on the then current policy, had 
Mr O responded to its offer to talk about premiums, but again that was his responsibility. But 
I dont think he could have purchased the policy offered through the broker from AXA.
So I maintain the position set out in my provisional findings. I dont think it reasonable to 
expect AXA to refund any premiums. My provisional findings are now final and form part of 
this final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman