DRN-1396176
The complaint
Ms M says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
Ms M applied for a credit card and at the same time applied for a PPI policy. The cost of the 
policy was charged to the account, so Ms M would repay the extra charge with interest in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ms M thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld. Ms M didn't 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first checked if Canada Square made it clear the policy was optional. Ms M says she 
didn't know the policy was optional. Ms M told us she cannot remember how the policy was 
sold - but was told she had to have PPI or she would not be able to pay back the credit card 
if she lost her job. She says she was never told she didn't have to have PPI. I've thought 
about what Ms M has said alongside the other information I've seen about the sale.
Based on what I've seen, Ms M applied for the policy online. Canada Square has sent us 
screenshots showing its online sales process. I think these are likely to be representative of 
what Ms M would have seen when she applied for the card. I see that to apply for the PPI 
Ms M had to complete a section headed "Would you like to insure your card balance?" This 
gave two options. The first was labelled "Yes, I would like to protect my repayments against 
accident, sickness and unemployment". The second was labelled "No, I do not wish to 
protect my repayments and I understand it will be my responsibility to keep up my 
repayments if I fall ill or lose my job". I've also seen Canada Square's records of the 
application. This suggests Ms M agreed to the PPI. So, while I appreciate Ms M doesn't think 
she had a choice, I think its more likely that she knew she had a choice and agreed to buy it.
Ms M applied for the policy online without any involvement from anyone from 
Canada Square. So I don't think Canada Square recommended Ms M buy the product. This 
means it didn't need to check the PPI was right for Ms M. But it did still need to give Ms M 
the information she needed to work out for herself if she wanted it.It's possible the information Canada Square gave Ms M wasn't as clear as it should have 
been. But Ms M selected the PPI in her application, so it looks as though she wanted this 
type of cover. She doesn't appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didn't cover. And it looks as though the policy was affordable to her. So I don't think any 
better information would have changed her decision to buy the policy.
I've considered Ms M's other comments. She says that she's had other complaints involving 
similar products that were upheld. I've carefully considered the points Ms M has raised. But 
in my experience very different things can go wrong depending on how and when the PPI 
was sold. I'm satisfied, for the reasons above, that this complaint shouldn't be upheld. The 
fact that other complaints were upheld doesn't change my conclusion.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman