DRN-3253840
The complaint
Mr J complains about the fees charged when repaying his debt through Ashley Park Debt 
Solutions Limiteds (AP) actions when they were managing a debt plan for him.
AP are currently in liquidation, and all our contact has been with their liquidators, but for 
simplicity Ill just refer to AP in this decision.
What happened
On 12 February 2019 Mr J got in touch with AP, and set out his concerns as:
AP didnt tell him how much hed end up paying in total and over what time period.
AP didnt tell him how much of what he pays would go towards their fees and how 
much would go to his creditors.
He suspected AP took half of his payments towards their fees.
AP had to tell him about this information before he signed up with them, and he said 
they didnt.
Mr J contacted us asking that we look into his complaint. When doing so, he told us he 
hadnt received a reply to the complaint he raised.
Ive not received any evidence AP replied to the complaint at the time it was raised. But, in 
September 2020 they got in touch and said they felt theyd acted fairly. They said:
Mr J agreed to the terms of the debt management plan when he signed and returned 
the agreement in November 2011.
Following their efforts, the majority of firms Mr J owed money to agreed to freeze 
interest and charges.
They said Mr J would have received regular reviews of his account through his 
personal debt liaison officer.
The plan was cancelled in July 2013 as the majority of the debt had been paid off in 
full, and the remaining creditor was to be managed by Mr J directly.
Overall, they felt the amount of work carried out through the plan justified the fees charged, 
and that they fulfilled their obligations under the terms and conditions.
One of our Investigators looked into things. She found under the rules were required to 
apply the only complaint point we could consider was any charges applied from 
12 February 2013, until the end of the plan on 16 July 2013. From the information I have, 
Mr J accepted this  so she considered those charges.
She said the terms and conditions Mr J had agreed to in November 2011 set out the fees  
and that she couldnt see those fees had been charged unfairly on his account.
Mr J didnt accept this outcome. He listed out a number of points he had concerns with which 
included not being told about the charges.
Ive noted Mr Js other points. But those points are all new complaint issues hes not 
previously raised with our service under this complaint. That means I cant consider them as 
part of this complaint, as AP need to be given time to review the concerns hes raised and 
reply  or eight weeks to have passed. So, if Mr J wishes to pursue the remaining issues 
hes mentioned, hell need to raise a new complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, Im only considering the charges that were applied to Mr Js debt 
plan between 12 February 2013, and 16 July 2013. Our Investigator explained the remaining 
charges arent ones were able to consider under our rules  which Mr J accepted when he 
was told this. So, I wont go into this any further.
So, the scope of what Im considering is whether Mr J was sufficiently made aware that 
charges could be applied  and whether the charges that were applied during the time 
period Im considering were done so in line with the agreement.
AP have provided a copy of terms and conditions which say, under the heading Plan costs 
and timescales:
Our management fee is charged at a rate of 17.5% of your disposable income. There is also 
a minimum and maximum fee bracket. The minimum fee that will be charged is set at £35.00 
and the maximum at £100.00 in any one month. The disposable income amount is the 
payment you make to us on a monthly basis, to distribute to your creditors on your behalf, 
and is payable monthly. This management fee will be deducted from your monthly payment, 
before the remainder of the funds are distributed to your creditors each month.
To be clear, I cant decide if Mr J did or didnt enter into the agreement as that isnt what this 
complaint is deciding. But Mr J did provide a copy of these terms and conditions to our 
service when first contacting us and did tell us hed not had a reply from AP at this time. So, 
it seems likely he did receive a copy of the terms  and Im satisfied its appropriate for me to 
rely on them for the purposes of deciding this case.
So, Im satisfied Mr J was made reasonably aware that charges would be applied as a result 
of entering into this agreement.
Next for me to consider is whether the charges have been applied in line with the above 
terms and conditions.
Ive seen a letter dated 31 October 2011 addressed to Mr J saying his monthly disposable 
figure has been calculated at £967.
As Mr Js monthly disposable income was set at this figure, 17.5% of it would have been 
around £169  so, no charges above £100, in line with the above terms, should have been 
applied.
Ive been provided with statements from APs systems  and between 12 February 2013 and 
16 July 2013 the management fee is shown as being charged at £100 with payments 
received of £967 each month  in line with the terms and conditions.Taking everything into account Im satisfied AP have applied the charges in line with their 
terms and conditions. I note Mr J also said he suspected they had taken half of his payments 
for their charges  but as explained above that isnt the case for the charges Im able to 
consider.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman