DRN-4506245
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the advice she was given by Montfort International Limited to transfer 
the benefits she held in a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) and then onwards to a pension scheme abroad. She 
believes the advice was unsuitable and has caused her a financial loss.
What happened
Mrs A, along with her husband Mr A, first got in touch with Montfort in 2008. They were in the 
process of emigrating to Australia, and it appears the company that handled their visa 
applications recommended Montfort to them to provide financial advice connected to this 
move. 
In May 2008, Montfort completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs As 
circumstances. This recorded that she was 35, married with one dependent child and 
another due approximately seven months later. Mrs A worked part-time, earning 
approximately £37,000 per year. She owned her own home and had an outstanding 
mortgage of approximately £123,500 on an interest-only basis. It was noted that Mrs A had 
life insurance and that she held savings and investments worth approximately £25,900. 
Montfort recorded that Mrs and Mr A had made the decision to emigrate several years 
earlier, in around 2005. The different climate and lifestyle, as well as affordability, were noted 
as the reasons theyd decided to move. It was noted that Mr A had a sibling already living in 
Australia and, when he and Mrs A moved, his parents intended to potentially spend 
extended periods there as well, visiting them. At the time, Mrs and Mr As intention was to 
emigrate permanently, renting a house initially but Montfort noted they hoped to buy a 
property within twelve months. 
Mrs A had three pension plans, all of which were DB schemes. The pension which was 
transferred and is the subject of this complaint, which Ill refer to as policy A had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) around that time of £9,084.27. These deferred benefits 
were accrued by Mrs A while working for a former employer between April 1996 and 
December 1999.
Montfort also asked Mrs A to indicate her attitude to investment risk based on a list of six 
different profiles. It recorded that Mrs A felt she had a cautious to medium attitude to risk. 
On 29 May 2008, Mrs and Mr A signed a client agreement with Montfort, confirming they 
wanted it to produce a Personal Migration Financial Plan on their behalf. This set out the fee 
for that service and noted this included implementing the plan. But Montfort would also 
receive fees for any financial restructuring that took place as a result of implementing the 
plan, including transferring any pension benefits to an Australian Superannuation (AS) 
scheme. Authority was also provided for Montfort to gather relevant information from Mrs As 
existing financial providers.
Montfort has explained that the Personal Migration Plan was provided in three stages. 
Stage one was a package of information, which Montfort has described as an education 
programme, to assist with planning Mr and Mrs As move. This included information about 
the Australian tax system, and how this would be applied to their assets if they remained UK 
residents or became Australian residents. The notes indicate this was shared with Mrs and 
Mr A during their first meeting with Montfort.
Montfort also introduced Mrs and Mr A to an independent financial adviser (IFA) in 
Australia, to provide any financial advice they required once there.
Stage two, which was issued in July 2008, was a summary of Montforts understanding of 
their circumstances and objectives, including information gathered from existing financial 
providers. 
On 21 July 2008, Montfort produced a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report for policy A 
based on the CETV of £9,084.27. 
Stage three of the personal migration plan was then provided to Mrs and Mr A on 
25 July 2008. This was a report of Montforts preliminary advice and recommendations. It 
said if Mrs and Mr A were remaining in the UK, it would not recommend that they transfer out 
of their DB schemes. However, based on the assumption that Mrs and Mr A were emigrating 
to Australia permanently, Montforts provisional advice was that once they had ceased 
employment in the UK, it would recommend that they transfer out of their DB schemes to a 
complying AS scheme, but possibly initially via a UK-based SIPP. Montfort said that the 
advice as to which AS scheme the funds should be transferred to would be provided by their 
Australian IFA.
There were some addendums issued to the recommendations in the weeks that followed as 
circumstances changed - most notably about whether Mrs and Mr A intended to retain 
ownership of their UK property. There was also an illustration provided, on 26 August 2008, 
indicating what the DB pensions could be worth after they were transferred to Australia, 
based on assumptions about the exchange rate and investment returns. However, for Mrs A, 
the illustration in relation to policy A was unchanged to the version set out in the stage three 
report.
On 4 September 2008, Montfort wrote to Mrs and Mr A to provide some additional 
information about SIPPs. It said it couldnt make a firm recommendation at that stage as it 
needed to carry out further analysis. But it noted an advantage of transferring their pension 
funds to a SIPP, before transferring to a pension scheme in Australia, was that they could 
convert their holdings in the SIPP when the currency exchange rate was preferable.
On 6 March 2009, Montfort issued a letter summarising the reasons for its recommendation 
in relation to Mrs As pensions. Montfort recommended that Mrs A transfer two of her three 
pension schemes, including policy A, but noted it hadnt considered her third pension, as she 
was still an active member and its recommendation relating to this pension would follow 
once she had left her current employment. 
Montfort said it recommended that Mrs As pension benefits should be transferred to 
Australia, but before that said they should be consolidated in a SIPP. It said the SIPP it 
recommended allowed the holdings to be converted into Australian Dollars (AUD), meaning 
there would be no exchange rate fluctuations impacting the onward move to an Australian 
pension. It said it recommended the funds be transferred to Australia because, following 
emigration, Mrs A would become a tax resident there. It noted Australias tax rules were 
different to that of the UK, and in relation to pensions, tax was largely levied on the pension 
before retirement, as opposed to on income drawn in retirement.Montfort said this had implications for benefits left behind and once transferred, funds would 
be considered tax-paid and Mrs A could draw these at retirement, tax-free. The letter noted:
You need to be aware that if you transfer your funds to Australia, and subsequently decide 
to return to the UK, it is very difficult to transfer your funds back as this can only be done 
under certain circumstances.
It also noted, If you were remaining in the UK, we would not be recommending a transfer for 
any of the schemes, but it is the fact that you are migrating permanently to Australia that has 
resulted in our end recommendation to transfer.
The recommendation letter went on to note the main drawback of transferring away from the 
DB scheme was that Mrs A would be losing guaranteed benefits. And it explained that the 
TVAS had been carried out to demonstrate the value of the benefits being lost. But Montfort 
noted that the TVAS didnt take account of Australian tax charges, relevant to Mrs As 
specific circumstances, so was not strictly accurate.
Montfort recommended a UK-based SIPP provider. And, although Mrs A had a cautious to 
medium attitude to risk and wanted to benefit from long term investment growth, Montfort 
recommended that the funds should not be invested initially and instead be held in a SIPP 
bank account in cash. This was because the SIPP was only intended as a short-term home 
for the funds before onward transfer to Australia. And it said the Australian IFA would advise 
on the most suitable receiving pension, as Montfort could not give Australian-based advice.
The CETV of the pensions Montfort had considered and made a recommendation on had 
expired, so new valuations were required. A new quotation was obtained in respect of 
policy A in May 2009, which said that the CETV had risen to £16,108.55. I understand the 
CETV of the other pension of Mrs As that Montfort had given a recommendation on had 
fallen. Montfort did not carry out an updated TVAS.
Mrs and Mr A moved to Australia as planned at the end of May 2009.
Policy A was transferred to a SIPP in line with Montforts recommendation in June 2009. And 
in May 2010 it was transferred onwards to an AS scheme. The other pension Montfort made 
a recommendation in respect of was not transferred as the CETV was queried. And 
ultimately a transfer of this other pension did not take place.
In 2010, Mrs A raised a number of concerns about the SIPP charges and the impact this had 
made on fund values while the funds were not benefiting from investment growth in the 
SIPP. And in 2011, Mrs and Mr A terminated their ongoing advisor relationship with Montfort.
Mrs A complained to Montfort in 2021 about the suitability of the advice shed received. 
Montfort responded, saying it thought the advice it had given was suitable. It said this had 
been given on the understanding Mrs A was permanently emigrating to Australia and so the 
tax implications of doing so made moving her pension benefits appropriate. And upon death, 
the remaining funds in an Australian pension would all transfer to Mrs As beneficiaries, 
rather than Mr A just receiving a spouses pension. Montfort added that direct transfers from 
DB schemes to overseas pension schemes were notoriously lengthy, so transferring the 
funds to a SIPP first helped address this, while also providing control over the exchange rate 
used.
Mrs A asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider the complaint. She said she and 
Mr A had returned to the UK in 2012 and Montfort had not assessed the likelihood of the 
move not being permanent or discussed the risks of this. She also didnt think Montfort had 
analysed the likelihood of achieving the returns required to address the impact of giving up the guaranteed benefits. She also noted her pension benefits were still now held in Australia 
and were effectively stuck there.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He thought it should be upheld and that 
Montfort should compensate Mrs A for any loss the DB transfer had led to. He said Mrs A 
didnt have a need for alternative death benefits at the time and, although she might have 
been interested in potential pension growth, thought it was unlikely that shed be able to 
achieve the level needed to exceed the benefits the DB scheme already guaranteed. And he 
noted that Montfort had said in its recommendation that, it wouldnt have recommended a 
transfer if Mrs A intended to return to the UK.
The Investigator acknowledged that the main reason for the advice seems to have been the 
taxation treatment of the pension after Mrs A emigrated. But he didnt think this necessarily 
meant a transfer was in Mrs As best interests  as it meant she was giving up a guaranteed 
escalating benefit and exposing her pension to risk. He also didnt think, even though Mrs A 
had indicated she intended to permanently emigrate, that a decision about a pension 
transfer needed to be made at that time  particularly considering how far away from retiring 
she was. So, he didnt think the advice given was in Mrs As best interests.
Montfort disagreed. It felt the Investigator hadnt appropriately considered Mrs As 
circumstances  that her plan at the time was to emigrate and this was expected to be 
permanent. And therefore, the tax treatment of the pension was vital and could not be 
disregarded, so transferring the pension was suitable. Montfort believed that the Investigator 
had not understood the tax implications of leaving the pensions in the UK and drawing 
benefits from them at retirement. It added that it had devised an alternative method of 
assessing the financial viability of the transfer, which it had done with the regulators 
knowledge and encouragement. And it also had conducted a financial viability assessment 
from an Australian perspective, by taking the critical yields and building in the tax 
consequences. Montfort maintained Mrs A would be better off by transferring policy A to an 
AS scheme and it was entitled to accept what Mrs and Mr A had told it about their move 
being permanent.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
I requested some additional information from each side in order to reach a decision.
I then issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. I didnt think the advice Mrs A 
received to transfer out of her DB scheme to a SIPP was suitable, so I recommended that 
Mrs A should be compensated on the basis that she had remained in her DB scheme and 
set out how Montfort should calculate this. I also said that Montfort should pay Mrs A £2,000 
as she would most likely need to take specialist advice to move her AS scheme funds back 
to the UK when she reached age 60. I also thought Montfort should pay Mrs A £1,000 for the 
significant distress and inconvenience its advice had caused her.
Mrs A largely accepted my provisional decision, although she felt the £1,000 I had awarded 
her for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice was far too low.
Mrs A said that Montfort had purposefully and deliberately delayed and not submitted 
information they were legally required to submit from the outset of the Financial Ombudsman 
Services investigation, for example, the stage three report. She said the amount of money 
she had spent on legal fees was hugely significant, and Montfort not supplying all the 
information at the outset had caused this, as it had delayed the complaint resolution at the 
Ombudsman stage.Mrs A said that in addition to the legal fees she had already incurred, shed had to vacate 
her court date to finalise her divorce and refile, which would result in around another six-
month wait. Mrs A said this was seriously affecting her mental health and it would mean 
even more legal fees as a direct consequence. In addition to this, Mrs A said she and Mr A 
had not been able to market their house for sale as they had not been able to progress 
critical areas of the divorce financials. Mrs A added that their mortgage was increasing by 
almost £2,000 per month (interest only) from 1st December and they were going to have pay 
this whilst they waited for a further court date. Mrs A felt that she and Mr A each should 
receive compensation of £5,000, which would still nowhere near cover the legal costs 
already incurred and will continue to be incurred in addition to the incremental mortgage 
charges.
Montfort responded at length to my provisional decision, which I have summarised below.
Montfort provided copies of emails between it and Mrs and Mr A from 2008 to 2010. It said 
they showed Mrs and Mr A were very clear that they intended to emigrate permanently and 
that Montfort had checked in at appropriate points to ensure that was still the case. It 
maintains it was fair for it to accept what Mrs and Mr A said about their move being 
permanent and it would not have recommended they transfer their pensions if they were 
intending to return to the UK. Mrs and Mr A were fully aware of the consequences of 
transferring.
Montfort said I had referred to it advising Mrs and Mr A to put off transferring their pensions 
until they were settled, but I had not offered any definition of settled. 
Montfort said that it did not advise Mrs A to move the funds held in her UK-based SIPP to 
the AS scheme. It said Mrs and Mr A dismissed Montfort as their IFA when they arrived in 
Australia and the transfer of Mrs As DB scheme to the AS scheme was arranged by an 
Australian IFA. Montfort believes it is the Australian IFAs responsibility to address this.
Montfort also said there were serious technical discrepancies and interpretations in the 
provisional decision surrounding the tax understanding. It said there was no reference to the 
means test and how this would impact Mrs As entitlement to the Age Pension in Australia. It 
also said that said Australia did not treat DB or DC schemes differently for tax purposes; a 
DB scheme is simply considered to be a non-complying foreign superannuation fund. It said 
that when a foreign pension is transferred to an AS scheme it is treated as a contribution and 
income tax must be paid on the part of a foreign transfer that is applicable fund earnings. 
Montfort referred me to an Australian Tax Office (ATO) webpage1, which stated:   
The applicable fund earnings are the earnings on your foreign super interest that have 
accrued since you became an Australian resident for tax purposes. 'Super interest' is any  
amount, benefit or entitlement a member holds in a fund.
Montfort explained that when considering a DB scheme such as policy A, the super interest 
would represent the difference between the CETV on the date of arrival in Australia and the 
future value of the benefits on the date they were transferred to Australia. So, my view that 
Mrs A would not accrue a tax liability on the value of her DB scheme benefits if she left them 
intact in the UK until a later date, was not accurate.
Montfort said that expert opinion on the tax issues ought to have been obtained before 
I made my provisional decision and it was not for Montfort to educate the Ombudsman 
Service on this issue.
1 https://www.ato.gov.au/individuals/super/foreign-super-funds/transfer-from-a-foreign-super-fund-to-
an-australian-super-fund/ Montfort added that I hadnt given adequate consideration to the currency risk if Mrs A had 
left her pension in the UK and the impact of the exchange rate plummeting. It also disputed 
that death benefits were not important to Mrs A.
Lastly Montfort considered that Mrs As complaint had been made too late. It said that Mrs A 
was aware she would be unable to bring her pension back to the UK if her move to Australia 
failed to become permanent. It said Mrs A knew this when the advice was given and she 
ought to have complained when she returned to the UK in 2012. Montfort added Mrs A was 
also aware she was giving up guarantees associated with policy A when she was given the 
advice by Montfort. This was more than three years before she complained.
Given the number of issues that had been raised since my provisional decision by both 
sides, I issued a further provisional decision on 17 November 2023. Although I made some 
different findings in respect of the tax burdens facing Mrs A if she left her DB scheme intact 
until a later date, I maintained that the complaint should be upheld for largely the same 
reasons.
Mrs A accepted my findings in respect of her pension but still thought that the compensation 
I awarded for the distress and inconvenience shed suffered should be higher.
Montfort didnt accept my provisional decision and made the following points:
It maintained Mrs A had awareness of her cause for complaint from the date of the 
advice because of the extensive education programme she went through about the 
differences between the Australian and UK pensions and tax systems.
Mrs and Mr A had actually started looking into the pension advice they received in 
2019  Mrs A had requested sight of the stage one, two and three reports in 
August 2019. This should cast doubt on Mr and Mrs As testimony about when they 
first became aware of their cause for complaint.
Mrs A was receiving annual statements for her AS scheme and shouldve been able 
to convert the fund values to British Pounds (GBP) to compare the position.
Montfort provided a holistic migration plan to Mrs A, not just retirement planning and 
it was unreasonable to focus only on the pensions advice.
Montfort sets high standards when dealing with customers such as Mrs A, but her 
case has not been judged in accordance with those standards. 
I had incorrectly referred to Mrs As DB schemes when I should be referring to them 
as foreign superannuation funds.
It checked Mrs and Mr As intentions as to the permanence of their emigration at 
stage three and not enough consideration had been given to this. It couldnt have 
done more to check their intentions.
The fact Mr As sibling was already in Australia and that his parents were intending to 
make frequent visits made the permanence of their emigration more likely. Montfort 
did not consider Mrs and Mr A at high risk of returning to the UK and the fact Mrs A 
chose to move her pension to Australia demonstrates her commitment to the move.
Montfort maintains that I had misinterpreted the reason for the recommendation of 
life cover. Mrs and Mr A said that the only reason they would return to the UK was if 
one of them were to die prematurely, so this was why bridging life cover was 
recommended.
I said that I had considered all of Mrs As options but there were many other factors 
that had an impact on transferring her pension including death, failing health, divorce 
and currency exchange movements.It said I hadnt been clear about what taxes I was referring to when I talked about the 
level of investment growth required in the AS scheme before the deduction of taxes 
to replicate Mrs As DB scheme benefits.
It maintained that the means test effectively reduced any pension Mrs A took from 
her DB scheme by 50%.
It is clear and obvious that Mrs A wouldve been better off having moved her pension 
to Australia had she remained there.
Montfort added that I hadnt factored in Mrs As entitlement to her UK state pension 
or Australian Age pension, all of which were taxable and subject to the means test. 
I had not given adequate consideration to the currency exchange rate risk of waiting 
to transfer the pension benefits.
Montfort refutes that any distress had been caused and says it provided all evidence 
and documents requested of it. It provided Mrs and Mr A with copies of the reports 
they requested and responded to their complaint promptly.
As Ive now received both parties responses to my provisional decision, Im now making my 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Jurisdiction
Montfort maintains that Mrs A made her complaint to it outside of the relevant time limits. So, 
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whether we 
can consider Mrs As complaint. 
The rules I must follow in determining whether we can consider this complaint are set out in 
the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, published as part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Handbook. DISP 2.8.2R says that, where a business doesnt consent (as Montfort 
doesnt here), I cant consider a complaint made more than six years after the event 
complained of, or if later, more than three years after the complainant was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, of their cause for complaint.
Montfort says that Mrs As complaint was raised outside of these time limits. Montfort 
received Mrs and Mr As complaint by email on 11 June 2021 but believes that they ought 
reasonably to have questioned whether the advice was suitable for them when they 
relocated back to the UK, which it believes was in 2012/2013. Thats particularly the case 
given the education programme Montfort says it took Mr and Mrs A through, during which 
Montfort says they were made fully aware of the differences between the UK and Australian 
systems. In Mrs As case in particular, Montfort says given shed moved her pension to 
Australia, she ought to have questioned whether the advice to move her pension there was 
suitable when she returned. And it believes Mrs A shouldve been able to review her 
statements and compare the position she was in. So, Montfort believes that Mrs and Mr A 
ought reasonably to have complained by 2015/2016. 
When Mrs and Mr A first referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, the 
Investigator asked them what had prompted them to complain now, given the advice was in 
2008/2009. Mrs A explained that when Mr A had turned 50 (in December 2020) hed started 
to think about his retirement plans, particularly as hed been in quite poor health. At that 
point, Mrs A said he realised his current pension wasnt worth anywhere near what his 
previous pension was worth, given the guaranteed pension he was entitled to. Mrs A has 
since added that Mr A had been suffering with his health since April 2020, and that he 
started looking into his pension arrangements to see whether this could potentially support him with his income needs. They had initially believed that Mr A couldve accessed his DB 
scheme from age 50.
Mrs A said Mr As realisation at what hed lost prompted her to look at her own 
arrangements, and she too realised that her AS scheme pension was not likely to provide 
her with the same level of benefits shed been advised to give up and that she had lost 
valuable guarantees. And further, she now understood that she wasnt able to access her 
pension until age 60, whereas she couldve taken early retirement under her DB scheme 
from age 55.
Having considered this testimony carefully Im persuaded that this was the first time Mrs and 
Mr A realised that something might not have been right with the advice they received. Mrs A 
said she returned to the UK with her children in November 2012 and Mr A followed in early 
2013. But I dont think that relocating to the UK ought reasonably to have led them to 
question the pension advice they received. At that point, Mrs A was 40 years old and Mr A 
was 43; they say that they were not thinking about their pension arrangements, given their 
retirement was some way off in the future. And I dont think that position was unreasonable.
I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mrs and Mr A wouldve received any 
documentation between then and when they say started to look into things in 2020 that 
wouldve given them cause to question the advice. For example, I havent seen any 
statements they received that wouldve allowed them to easily compare the benefits theyd 
be entitled to through their new arrangements and the guaranteed benefits provided by the 
previous DB schemes, that wouldve led them to question whether the advice was right for 
them.
Montforts advice stated that it was recommending Mrs and Mr A transfer their pensions to a 
SIPP and onwards to an AS scheme on the basis that theyd be better off financially.
Mrs As AS scheme statements simply provided a fund value in AUD. So, this wouldve been 
difficult for her to compare it with her original DB benefits. Montfort says Mrs A couldve 
simply converted the value to GBP. But I still dont think that wouldve allowed her to make a 
comparison with the annual pension shed be able to take from her DB scheme at retirement 
because she wouldnt be aware of or be able to predict what annuity she could buy with her 
fund. Furthermore, Montforts advice was based on Mrs A leaving her funds invested to age 
60, so it was also difficult for her to establish whether her funds were performing in line with 
the expectations Montfort gave her at that stage. 
Although Mr A initially wasnt achieving growth on his pension because it remained in cash 
until such time it was going to be transferred to Australia, once it was invested, the value 
increased. Similarly, Montforts advice was based on Mr A transferring his funds to Australia 
and leaving them invested until age 60. So, it was also difficult for him to know whether his 
pension was growing in line with the expectations Montfort gave him, as his pension funds 
remained in the UK, whereas Montforts projections were based on AUD at age 60. And for 
the same reasons as above, knowing the fund value wouldnt have allowed Mr A to make a 
comparison with the annual pension hed be able to take from his DB scheme at retirement.
So, at the point Mrs and Mr A returned to the UK, their pension plans were intended to 
remain invested for at least another 15-20 years, meaning theyd be expecting further growth 
in line with Montforts projections. For this reason, I dont think theyd have been in a position 
to otherwise establish whether the advice was right for them until they started looking into 
things more forensically in 2020.
Its clear that in 2020 things changed. Mr As retirement in particular was less certain; he 
may have needed to access his pension early due to his health. So, I think it was only at that stage did he have reason to look into things in more detail, and make comparisons with the 
DB scheme hed been advised to transfer out of. I also think he came to realise how valuable 
the guarantees were, in light of his health. With all of this in mind, I dont think either Mrs A or 
Mr A were in an informed position to question whether the advice was suitable for them, 
before December 2020.
Mrs A also adds that during the moves between the UK to Australia then back to the UK they 
realised they had lost Montforts reports. So, they asked for copies in 2021 and complained 
soon after.
Ive considered Montforts point that Mrs and Mr A started looking into their pension 
arrangements earlier than this, as Mrs A had asked for copies of Montforts reports in 
August 2019. But even if Mrs and Mr A had access to the reports from August 2019, Im still 
persuaded that the catalyst for them looking into their pension arrangements in more detail 
was Mr As health deteriorating in 2020. And even if I think they ought reasonably to have 
looked into their pension arrangements more closely on receipt of the reports in August 
2019, I still think they complained within three years of this date. This is because they 
complained to Montfort in June 2021, around two years later. So, as Mrs A complained 
within three years of August 2019 and December 2020, Im satisfied she made her complaint 
in time.
Merits of the complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding it in line with the findings I made in my second provisional 
decision. So, Ive set those findings out again below.
Both sides have provided a large amount of information to us in connection with this 
complaint. Please be assured that Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its 
not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it to reach my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Montfort's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Montfort says that I havent taken into account Australian tax rules and regulations when 
making my decision. But in reaching this decision I have taken Australian tax rules into 
account, where relevant, as set out below. 
I agree with Montfort that it was important for it to take into account all of Mrs As material 
circumstances and objectives when giving the advice. And it is evident that the advice was 
sought from Montfort because Mrs and Mr A had decided to emigrate to Australia. So, they 
needed to know how this move affected their finances, including their existing pension 
arrangements. As such, the advice had to be given with this key fact in mind.
Nevertheless, the FCA states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer 
from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Montfort should have only considered a 
transfer out of Mrs As DB scheme to be suitable if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in 
her best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available and considered Mrs As 
circumstances overall, Im not satisfied it was in her best interests.
Mrs A was aged 37 at the time of the advice and told Montfort that her intention was to 
emigrate permanently to Australia. She had three existing DB pensions, one of which she 
was still an active member of at the time the advice was given. I acknowledge that in 
Australian terms, a DB pension is described as a foreign superannuation fund, but for ease 
of reading, I will continue to refer to the pensions as DB pension schemes.
I also acknowledge that the pensions advice Montfort gave was part of a holistic migration 
plan covering all aspects of Mrs and Mr As proposed move to Australia. As Mrs A has only 
complained about the pension advice she received, Ive only considered this aspect of the 
advice, although in doing so I have had regard to the wider context in which this pension 
advice was provided.
In my view, Montfort had to consider whether transferring Mrs As DB pensions to Australia 
was clearly in her best interests. And in doing so, I think Montfort had to weigh up this option, 
against Mrs As other options. So, Ive thought about the options Montfort ought to have 
considered when delivering its advice to Mrs A.
Montfort considered whether Mrs A should leave her DB schemes in the UK and withdraw 
benefits from it directly in Australia. However, it determined that this was not suitable for 
Mrs A. Instead, it recommended that Mrs A should transfer her DB schemes to an AS 
scheme, via a UK SIPP. The intention behind the initial transfer to a SIPP was so that Mrs A 
could exchange her funds for AUD at a time when the currency exchange rate was 
favourable. Although Montfort recommended Mrs A transfer two of her DB schemes, only 
policy A was transferred, so Ive focused on this pension here.
In order to consider whether this advice was suitable, Ive first considered the financial 
viability of the transfer. In accordance with the regulators requirements, Montfort carried out 
a TVAS showing how much Mrs As pension fund would need to grow by each year in order 
to be able to provide the same benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The TVAS dated 21 July 2008 was based on a CETV of £9,084.27. It said the scheme 
normal retirement age (NRA) was 60 and that Mrs A could expect a full pension of £3,758 
per year. The critical yield required to match Mrs As DB scheme benefits at age 60 was 
13.2% if she took a full pension and 12.5% if she took tax-free cash (TFC) and a reduced 
pension.
These figures are reproduced in the stage three report and the recommendation letter dated 
6 March 2009. However, by this time the CETV had expired and as Mrs As move was 
imminent, Montfort sought a new CETV. The new CETV was £16,108.55, but no further 
TVAS was carried out. So, I dont know what the critical yield wouldve been to match 
Mrs As DB scheme benefits using this CETV. On balance, I think it wouldve likely reduced 
the critical yield somewhat, but not substantially. And in any event as Montfort only produced 
one TVAS, which is the one it used when giving Mrs A the advice, it is the critical yields in 
this report that I have considered.
The critical yield rates of 13.2% and 12.5% compare with the discount rate of 7.2% for 
23 years to retirement at age 60. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs As 
cautious to medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point in Mrs A giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, the lowest critical 
yield was 12.5%, which was substantially more than both the discount rate and the higher 
projection rate. So, if Mrs A transferred her benefits out of the DB scheme into a SIPP, which 
was the advice she was given, I think she was likely to receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk.
Im mindful, however, that the intention behind the recommendation to transfer out of the DB 
scheme to a SIPP was so that Mrs A could then transfer her pension benefits to an AS 
scheme, as indeed she went on to do in 2010. So, the figures Ive quoted here dont tell the 
full story as they dont compare the benefits Mrs A was entitled to through her DB scheme, 
with the AS scheme pension she could potentially achieve. And Montfort said as much in the 
stage three report  it explained that it had to carry out a TVAS but the figures produced 
were not accurate because, they do not take account of Australian tax charges and the 
consequences of not transferring.
However, Montfort has said that it did carry out a financial viability assessment from an 
Australian perspective, by taking the critical yields and building in the tax consequences. It 
says that it was encouraged to formulate a different approach by the regulator following a 
meetings in 2008 and 2009. I dont know what Montfort discussed with the regulator over 
13 years ago, but I dont think it matters for my decision. I have already acknowledged that 
the TVAS undertaken by Montfort didnt show the full picture, so Ive considered what 
additional comparisons Montfort made.
I can see that in the stage three report Montfort set out an illustration of the benefits that 
might be payable from an AS scheme at age 60. In the absence of any other analysis 
provided by Montfort, I have assumed that this is the Australian financial viability assessment 
that it says it carried out and Montfort hasnt disputed this. The figures assumed an 
exchange rate of $2.10 AUD = £1 and assumed a yield rate of 6.25%. It projected the 
following retirement income based on assumed growth net of all taxes and charges:5% - $3,967.60 AUD per year
6% - $4,963.61 AUD per year
7% - $6,205.56 AUD per year
The report later stated:
The basic premise behind this recommendation is that you will be financially better off in 
your retirement by doing so. The tax implications of retaining your pension in the UK as an
Australian resident and the potential advantages of investing in the concessionally taxed
superannuation environment in Australia mean that this course of action will prove over the
long term to be the most beneficial.
But I dont think that this is necessarily clear from the analysis Montfort carried out. The FCA 
required Montfort to compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid 
under a defined benefits pension scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension 
scheme (COBS 19.1.2R). And under COBS 19.1.3R the FCA said, the comparison should:
1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme; 
and
3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have 
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. 
So, I dont think Montfort met its obligation under this rule as it didnt explain what rate of 
return Mrs A would need to achieve to replicate her DB scheme benefits if she transferred 
them to an AS scheme. Instead, it told her what pension income she might be able to 
achieve if she achieved certain levels of growth net of tax and charges. So, it isnt clear what 
actual level of investment growth would be required before the deduction of tax and charges 
or whether that level of growth was actually achievable given Mrs As attitude to risk. 
Montfort has questioned what taxes I am referring to here, but I am simply reflecting the 
language used in the illustration it produced. Montfort set out the different levels of assumed 
growth  net of all taxes/charges in a table format. My point here is that Montfort hasnt set 
out the levels of assumed growth before taxes/charges are deducted. So, it doesnt show 
Mrs A the complete picture of how much growth shed need to achieve to obtain the income 
Montfort projected in the illustration.
Based on the illustration in the stage three report, even if Mrs A achieved net growth of 5%, 
that would still only provide her with an approximate income of around £1,890 per year, 
using the AUD exchange rate Montfort gave. It isnt clear whether this was based on Mrs A 
purchasing an annuity (with associated escalations and/or spouse benefits) or whether taken 
on a drawdown basis.
Whilst this sum would be payable to her tax-free (because in Australia tax is paid on pension 
contributions rather than on retirement income), this sum was still significantly less than the 
£3,758 per year the TVAS said Mrs A would be entitled to at age 60 from policy A if she took 
her pension directly from the scheme and took no lump sum. And as Ive said above, it isnt 
clear whether this income would increase in retirement or provide a spouses pension, 
whereas the income from Mrs As DB scheme was guaranteed, escalated and included a 
spouses pension on her death.
I accept that if Mrs A drew her full DB pension directly from policy A in the UK it would likely 
be subject to income tax at her marginal rate. However, because Australia has a double-taxation agreement with the UK, assuming Mrs A was a permanent resident in Australia 
(which was her intention) then she would only pay income tax in Australia. Montfort has said 
that the pension would be effectively reduced by 50%. But in Montforts stage one report, it 
set out the following Australian income tax rates applicable until 30 June 2008:
0% on $0 - $6,000 AUD
15% on $6,001 - $30,000 AUD
30% on $30,001  $75,000 AUD
40% on $75,001 - $150,000 AUD
However, by the time this advice was given in March 2009 this had changed to:
0% on $0 - $6,000 AUD
15% on $6,001 - $34,000 AUD
30% on $34,001  $80,000 AUD
40% on $80,001 - $180,000 AUD
At the time there was also an additional levy for Medicare at a rate of 1.5%.
So, based on what Ive seen, if Mrs A took her annual pension directly from the DB scheme 
while in Australia, it wouldnt be reduced by 50%, it would be taxed at her marginal income 
tax rate in Australia.
I think its unlikely Mrs A would be expecting to be earning more than $80,000 AUD in 
retirement, which would include any entitlement she had to the UK state pension and the 
Australian Age Pension. But its possible her total taxable income in retirement would stay 
within the lower tax band, particularly as the trend is generally for the upper limit of each tax 
bracket to increase over time to account for inflation. But based on the tax brackets as they 
were at the time of the advice, and even allowing for Mrs A paying tax at a rate of 30% on 
this pension, on balance, I think drawing her pension from her DB scheme directly would still 
likely equate to a higher annual pension than she could achieve by transferring to an AS 
scheme. And that could be the case even if she achieved net growth of 6%.
Based on the illustrations provided to Mrs A, I dont think Montfort has shown Mrs A would 
likely be better off by transferring out of the DB scheme to an AS scheme. Thats particularly 
the case given her cautious to medium attitude to risk and even allowing for the tax-free 
payment of pension benefits in Australia, if she transferred out of her DB scheme. So, for 
this reason alone, Im not persuaded Montfort has shown it was clearly in Mrs As best 
interests to transfer out of her DB scheme.
Montfort says that I have not taken into account the effect of Mrs A receiving this pension (or 
the UK state pension) on the means test. In the stage one report, Montfort explained that 
the Australian state pension, called the Age Pension is means tested. The report further 
explained:
This is to ensure that Social Security benefits are only paid to people who really need them. 
The Age Pension is subject to an income test and an asset test, the test that relates to the 
lower rate of payment is the one that is applied.
Montfort says that if Mrs A drew benefits directly from her DB scheme she would be unable 
to maximise her Age Pension (which she would be able to mitigate if the benefits were 
transferred to an AS scheme) and that it could have the effect of reducing her entitlement to 
it by up to 50%. It also says that this would have an impact on disability benefits. But I still 
dont think that was a good enough reason to recommend that Mrs A transfer out of her DB scheme at that point. I dont think Montfort could say either way at the point it gave advice 
that if Mrs A left her DB scheme intact in the UK and drew benefits from it directly it would 
have an impact on her entitlement to the Age Pension. And I dont think mitigating this risk 
outweighed the guaranteed pension she would be giving up if she transferred out of the DB 
scheme.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I also think that it was too soon for Mrs A to make the 
decision to move her DB pension to Australia. Mrs A was 37, and although her plan was to 
emigrate and remain in Australia permanently, that was still around 20 years away and her 
plans couldve changed. In my view, there was a significant risk that the move to Australia 
may have not proved successful, and transferring Mrs As pension prematurely, before she 
was settled in Australia also came with disadvantages. Indeed, Montfort has been very clear 
that it would not have recommended that Mrs A transfer her pension to Australia if she 
wasnt intending to remain there permanently.
Montfort asserts that Mrs and Mr A were very clear that they had decided to move to 
Australia permanently and they did not intend to return. It said that they didnt present as 
being at high risk of returning to the UK, particularly as Mr A already had a sibling in 
Australia. So, its advice was based on this fact and Montfort made it very clear throughout 
the advice process that its recommendation was based on the understanding that Mrs and 
Mr A had no intention to return to the UK to live, work or retire. Montfort also stated in the 
recommendation letter:
You need to be aware that if you transfer your funds to Australia, and subsequently decide 
to return to the UK, it is very difficult to transfer your funds back as this can only be done 
under certain circumstances.
Montfort adds that it couldnt have done more to check Mrs and Mr As intentions and says 
that Mrs As decision to move her pension to Australia demonstrated her commitment to the 
move.
I dont doubt that Mrs and Mr A believed at the time that their move to Australia would be 
permanent. And I accept that Montfort checked this several times throughout the process 
and Mrs and Mr A assured them that they intended their move to be permanent. So, I accept 
that was a key factor when providing suitable advice. However, I think Montfort was aware 
that there was a risk that Mrs and Mr As move to Australia might not work out as intended. 
Indeed, it recommended that they take out bridging life cover citing this very reason.
On 24 July 2008 it wrote to Mrs and Mr A with its reasons for recommending life cover, and 
an accompanying appendix stated:
Whilst it goes without saying that you are proposing to stay in Australia / New Zealand for 
the duration, it is an unfortunate fact that many families change their minds and return to the 
UK. After all, Australia / New Zealand is a totally different environment, let alone country, and 
with the best will in the world some people will find that it is just not for them. Consequently 
we do our best to provide our Clients with as much flexibility in their cover as we can, within 
the restraints of individual budgets. We refer to this as Bridging Life Cover  quite literally to 
bridge the gap between two entirely different legislative regimes
We recommend a five year term plan, and expect our Clients to keep their plan for a good 
four years. This has proved to be the time of greatest risk for most of our Clients  broadly 
coinciding with the time it takes to attain citizenship, and to reach a finite decision as to 
whether they will return or stay.So, I think this shows that Montfort was aware, through its experience of advising customers 
in a similar position to Mrs and Mr A, that the first five years of any move was deemed to be 
a critical period for customers determining whether or not they would stay in Australia or 
move back to the UK. And I think that this shouldve been factored into the pension advice it 
gave Mrs A.
Montfort says that this has been taken out of context. It says it recommends life cover for the 
first five years of any move because if the worst were to happen during that time, the 
widow/widower is more likely to decide to return to the UK and the money would be required 
to cover relocation costs. It says Mrs and Mr A agreed to take out the life cover as this was 
the only circumstances under which they could envisage returning home. But I think the 
sentiment of what Montfort said in the appendix applies to anyone emigrating. Montfort 
stated that despite a customer proposing to stay in Australia, it was an unfortunate fact that 
many families return home because it is a totally different environment and many find it is 
not for them. And I think its likely to have reached that view based on its experience. While 
Montfort may have used this rationale in order to recommend Mrs and Mr A life assurance, 
I still think that a move abroad not working out because of the different environment or it 
not being for them is a reasonably foreseeable consequence of any migration.
In Montforts latest response it said that, many families change their minds but not Montfort 
families as Montfort families plan. The suggestion being with enough planning, a migration 
will be successful. So, there was no reason for Montfort to believe Mrs and Mr As migration 
would fail given the planning they had undertaken and that they already had a support 
network there (Mr As sibling). But I dont think that is realistic, one cannot plan for every 
eventuality. And the reality is that Mrs and Mr A were proposing to emigrate at a relatively 
young age with a young family to a completely different environment, so it was very possible 
that it would not prove to be a good fit for them. 
Furthermore, I dont think that Mrs A moving her pension to Australia is evidence of her 
commitment to emigrating permanently. In my view, Mrs A was simply following Montforts 
recommendation.
With all of this in mind, I dont think it was sufficient for Montfort to simply warn Mrs A that its 
advice was based on her moving permanently away from the UK, particularly as it knew how 
difficult it would be to move pension funds back from Australia if Mrs A returned to the UK. 
So, this is another reason why I dont think it was suitable advice to recommend that Mrs A 
transfer out of her DB scheme at the time.
I think Montfort could have instead advised Mrs A not to consider moving her pension for at 
least five years because of the risk that the move may not prove successful. And I also think 
that this wouldve been suitable advice taking into account all of Mrs As circumstances. By 
remaining in her DB scheme for at least five years, and until closer to her retirement age, 
she mitigated the risk of the move not becoming permanent and her funds being stuck in 
Australia and her being unable to access them until age 60. She also wouldve been 
sheltered from any investment risk during that time, because her DB pension was 
guaranteed and her entitlement increased the closer she got to her normal retirement age.
Montfort says there is no objective way to measure at what point a customer could be said to 
be settled and more likely to remain permanently in a country they had emigrated to. In the 
absence of this, Montfort asks how any advice it gives to a customer in the same 
circumstances as Mrs A can be seen as suitable.
But in making this decision, Im only considering the circumstances of Mrs A. Given her age 
at the point the advice was taken, and the fact she had a young family, I think there was 
considerable scope for her plans changing, including the possibility of her returning to the UK to live, between now and her retirement. Montforts role wasnt to simply transact what 
Mrs A thought she wanted. It had a duty to act in her interests overall and I think that this 
included acknowledging and accounting for the reasonably foreseeable risk of her plans 
changing in the advice it gave her.
Could Mrs A have left her DB pension in the UK and transferred it at a later date?
Montfort says that there were other significant tax implications that meant transferring out of 
Mrs As DB scheme as soon as she emigrated was in her best interests. It said that the tax 
treatment of pension transfers from UK pension schemes, if made more than six months 
after arrival in Australia, are punitive under Section 27CAA of the Income Tax Assessment 
Act 1936 and Section 305 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997. It added that if Mrs A 
remained in her DB scheme, any death benefits payable to her spouse would be 
substantially reduced by tax, whereas if the pension was transferred to an AS scheme the 
remaining fund would be paid as a lump sum to her spouse, free of tax. Ive considered 
these points carefully below.
I accept that Mrs A wouldve attracted a tax charge if she moved her pension to an AS 
scheme at a future date.
According to the stage three report, Montfort said:
Certain UK pensions are subject to Australias Foreign Investment Fund (FIF) tax regime 
which seeks to tax the annual growth on an unrealised basis until you reach retirement age.
However, pension funds which are employer-sponsored and maintained by your employer 
(or former employer) are exempt from Foreign Investment Fund measures. As such there 
will be no tax on the annual growth of your pension schemes if they remain in their current 
format.
So, it seems to me that Mrs As DB scheme would not be subject to the FIF tax regime if she 
left it behind in the UK. And I note Montfort says this was abolished in 2010.
Montfort went on to say:
The alternative option to leaving your pension funds in the UK is to transfer your UK 
pension entitlements into an appropriate Australian superannuation fund. Generally, this can 
be done directly from each plan but, in some cases, consolidation into a new UK personal 
pension before transferring to Australia may be advisable.
You will need to consider Section 27CAA of the Australian Income Tax Assessment Act, now
referred to as Section 305/10 (please see page 12 of Stage 1) on transfer under which you
have six months to complete the transfer to Australia without any liability to 27CAA (305/10)
tax. If the transfer is not completed within this time you will pay tax on the growth from arrival
value.
This tax can be paid personally (at your highest rate of tax).
Going back to page 12 of the stage one report, it states:
Pension Transfers from the UK to Australia
The Six Month WindowA 6 month exemption exists allowing a window of opportunity for people to transfer a 
pension fund from the UK to Australia without becoming subject to S27CAA. This is seen as 
encouragement for people to move funds within 6 months of residency.
Transfers outside six months
If a UK pension fund is transferred to an Australian superannuation fund six months or more 
after a person became an Australian resident for tax purposes, a portion of the payment will 
be included as assessable income.
In general terms, the formula to calculate the assessable amount ensures that you are only 
taxed on the growth component of the benefit that accrued from the time you became a 
resident of Australia.
This growth is included in your assessable income and taxed at your marginal rate of income 
tax 
As I understand it, if Mrs A transferred the CETV of her DB scheme to an AS scheme, it 
would be treated as assessable income and the applicable fund earnings would be taxed 
according to section 305.
Thats because according to the ATO, the applicable fund earnings are the earnings on a 
foreign super interest that have accrued since becoming an Australian resident for tax 
purposes. And 'super interest' is any amount, benefit or entitlement a member holds in a 
fund. Montfort says this would include an entitlement to a pension through a DB scheme. So, 
that would mean if Mrs A did not transfer the CETV of her DB scheme to Australia within six 
months of her arrival, she would be required to pay income tax on the applicable fund 
earnings. And that would essentially represent the difference between the CETV on the day 
of her arrival in Australia and the eventual CETV transferred.
The ATO webpage Montfort referred me to further sets out:
Including applicable fund earnings in your funds assessable income
You may be able to choose to include some amount of your applicable fund earnings in your 
funds assessable income. In this case, the amount will be taxed in your fund instead of as 
part of your income. Your fund pays income tax at 15%, which may be less than the rate of 
tax you pay.
To make a choice, you must meet all of the following conditions:
you have been an Australian resident for tax purposes for more than 6 months or 
have terminated your employment more than 6 months ago
you have transferred the whole of the foreign fund interest directly to a complying 
Australian super fund
you no longer have a super interest in the foreign fund.
If you don't meet these conditions you can't choose to include any amount in your funds 
assessable income. Instead, you must include any applicable fund earnings in your personal 
assessable income.
It then gives the following example:
Example: applicable fund earnings and assessable incomeTony transfers $160,000 from his foreign super fund to his Australian super fund. The 
transfer is the whole of his interest in his foreign fund. His applicable fund earnings amount 
is $40,000. If Tony doesn't elect to include any of this amount in his Australian super fund's 
assessable income, he must include the $40,000 in his personal assessable income for the 
year (taxed at his marginal tax rates).
If Tony elects to include $30,000 of the applicable fund earnings in his funds assessable 
income, his fund will include this amount in its assessable income (taxed at 15%) and he 
must include $10,000 in his personal assessable income (taxed at his marginal tax rate).
If Tony elects to include $40,000 of the applicable fund earnings in his funds assessable 
income, his fund will include this amount in its assessable income (taxed at 15%) and Tony 
won't have to include any of the applicable fund earnings in his personal assessable 
income.
So, it seems to me that if Mrs A transferred the CETV of her DB scheme more than six 
months after her arrival in Australia, she could elect to include the applicable fund earnings 
in her AS schemes assessable income, and pay income tax on it at 15%. This would 
essentially mean Mrs A would pay income tax of 15% on the difference between the CETV 
on her arrival in Australia and the CETV transferred to the AS scheme.
According to the ATO website2, when a customer transfers an amount from a UK-based 
pension to an AS scheme, the AS scheme will report the transfer as a contribution for the 
customer for that year.
[The transfer] will be counted as either, or a combination of:
a non-assessable foreign fund amount, which is counted towards their non-
concessional contributions;
an assessable foreign fund amount, which is counted towards their concessional 
contributions.
If you choose to include some of your applicable fund earnings in your funds assessable 
income, the amount will be reported as part of your total contributions (increasing your total 
superannuation balance) but doesn't count towards your contributions caps.
Non-assessable foreign fund amount
Generally, most of a transfer from a foreign fund will consist of contributions you have made 
to the foreign fund and the earnings on those contributions.
The non-assessable amount is the amount that was vested (paid to you or for which you're 
entitled by law) at the time of the transfer. This will include earnings on your contributions 
from the foreign fund even if the earnings were not allocated to you at the time of the 
transfer.
Applicable fund earnings are included in the non-assessable foreign fund amount, less any 
amount you choose to include in the fund's assessable income. This amount is no longer 
treated as a contribution but treated like normal earnings of your fund.
So, based on what the ATO says here, it seems to me that the CETV Mrs A would receive in 
future (which she would then go on to transfer to an AS scheme via a UK SIPP) would be 
2 https://www.ato.gov.au/Individuals/Super/Foreign-super-funds/Transfer-from-a-foreign-super-fund-
to-an-Australian-super-fund/#HowyourAustralianfundreportsaforeigntranclassified as a non-assessable foreign fund amount which is counted towards her non-
concessional contributions. But if Mrs A elected to include her applicable fund earnings in 
her AS scheme's assessable income, then this amount wouldnt be count towards the 
contributions cap.
In Montforts recommendation letter of 11 June 2009, it stated:
Contributions Cap
From the 1st July 2007, the Australian government introduced new provisions relating to 
non-concessional contributions, which typically take the form of pension contributions made 
from the individual taxpayer's after tax income.
Due to concerns that concessionally taxed superannuation may be too attractive for high net
worth individuals a ceiling on the amount of non-concessional contributions has been 
introduced of A$150,000 per annum (or a total of A$450,000 averaged over 3 years).
The treasury has confirmed that the non-taxable portion of any amounts transferred 
from overseas superannuation funds will be subject to the non-concessional 
contribution cap.
Contributions made in excess of the cap will be taxed at the top marginal rate plus medicare 
(46.5%).
With all of this in mind, if Mrs A transferred her DB scheme at a later date, and included her 
applicable fund earnings in her AS scheme's assessable income, then she would not likely 
fall foul of the non-concessional contribution cap. Thats because the CETV in May 2009, 
which is the non-taxable portion of the amount transferred, is well below the $150,000 AUD 
cap. In its latest response, Montfort said it agreed with this, though it said this rule had since 
tightened and breaching the cap was not an impossibility if Mrs A made personal non-
concessional contributions or if the currency exchange rate increased in Mrs As favour.
Montfort believes that it was in Mrs As best interests to transfer her DB pension 
immediately. This is because shed avoid paying any income tax on the amount transferred 
that would otherwise be due if the transfer was delayed by more than six months. But I still 
think that had to be weighed up against the loss of the guarantees, the risk of the move to 
Australia not becoming permanent, and the fact that based on Montforts own projections, 
Mrs A wasnt likely to be able to exceed her DB scheme benefits. And I dont think its likely 
that the CETV would increase so drastically if Mrs A delayed the transfer by five years, such 
that the income tax payable on the transfer would be prohibitive. Thats particularly the case 
given that the increase to Mrs As DB pension was essentially guaranteed, whereas any 
increase to the fund if transferred to the AS scheme was dependent on investment returns 
and would be subject to charges.
Overall, I dont think avoiding the potential for Mrs A to pay income tax of 15% on any 
increase to the CETV between her arrival date in Australia and the eventual transfer date, 
was worth it in view of the other risks Ive identified. And had this been explained to Mrs A 
I think she wouldve accepted this, particularly as its clear Mrs A left her other two larger DB 
schemes intact when she emigrated, which wouldve also been taxable under section 305 if 
they were later transferred. So, I dont think Mrs A wouldve insisted on transferring this 
pension even if it meant paying income tax if she transferred it at a later date.Currency risk
Montfort says that I also havent considered the currency risk of remaining in the DB scheme 
until such time that Mrs A was ready to transfer her pension. It says transferring immediately 
to a SIPP allowed Mrs A to immediately take advantage of the currency exchange rate when 
it was most favourable, whereas initiating a pension transfer can take months.
I accept that the exchange rate between GBP and AUD would fluctuate over time and that 
transferring to a SIPP would allow Mrs A to take advantage of a higher rate more quickly. 
But I still dont think that it was worth Mrs A giving up her guaranteed DB pension, to 
potentially be able to take advantage of a more favourable exchange rate, given what Ive 
already said above. Thats particularly the case given there was no guarantee of when or if 
the exchange rate would improve. And as Montfort recommended that Mrs A transfer to a 
SIPP and remain in cash, until such time the currency exchange rate was favourable, there 
was a very real risk that her funds would reduce in value whilst waiting for a favourable 
exchange rate, given the charges payable.
So, I dont think it was suitable advice to transfer out of the DB scheme for this reason.
Death benefits
Montfort has argued that Mr A would be entitled to better death benefits as a result of Mrs A 
transferring her DB pension. It says that the spouses pension would be taxable, and would 
also have an impact on his other benefits because of the means test, whereas the remaining 
funds in an AS scheme would be paid to her spouse tax free. So, this was also a reason to 
support the transfer. 
Montfort says it has provided evidence showing that death benefits were important to Mrs A. 
Whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here was to 
advise Mrs A about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death. In any 
event, death benefits were not mentioned in either the stage three report or the 
recommendation letter. So, it seems to me that the different death benefits Mrs A would be 
entitled to were simply highlighted as a consequence of transferring. Furthermore, Montfort 
had already recommended that Mrs A should take out bridging life cover for five years. So, it 
seems to me her spouse was already covered for the first five years of her move, which 
allowed her time to consider transferring her DB pension after that period without having to 
worry about her spouse being provided for.
Summary
Ultimately, I dont think the advice Mrs A was given was suitable or in her best interests. 
Mrs A was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income from the DB scheme and 
I dont think Montfort has demonstrated that she would be better off by transferring it to an 
AS scheme, even if her move did end up being permanent. I also dont think Mrs A needed 
to make a decision about transferring policy A at that time as there was a reasonably 
foreseeable risk that the move wouldnt work out and she would return to the UK.
So, I dont think the recommendation Montfort gave to Mrs A to transfer out of her DB 
scheme was suitable, because it exposed her to the risk of her pension becoming stuck in 
Australia if the move failed. And if it did fail, then Mrs A would most likely receive a lower 
overall income in retirement. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think Mrs A couldve remained in her DB scheme for at least five 
years when she would likely be more settled in Australia, at which point she could then consider transferring her pension. This protected her against the very real risk that the move 
would fail  which it in fact did only three years later  and also sheltered her from 
investment risk in the meantime. While I accept that Mrs A would likely have to pay income 
tax on her applicable fund earnings if she transferred the pension at a later date, I dont think 
having to pay this overrode the risks involved in Mrs A transferring her pension immediately. 
And I also havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that by transferring out of the DB 
scheme when she did, instead of drawing funds directly from the DB scheme, Mrs A would 
be better off in retirement.
So, I dont think Montforts advice was suitable as it was not clearly in Mrs As best interests 
to transfer her DB scheme benefits at that time. Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs A 
would've gone ahead anyway, against Montfort's advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs A wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Montforts advice. I say this because Mrs A was 
an inexperienced investor with a cautious to medium attitude to risk and while the pension 
on its own wasnt a large portion of her retirement benefits, it still formed a significant part of 
her overall guaranteed retirement income. Im also mindful that Mrs A didnt transfer her 
other larger DB schemes, despite Montforts advice to do so. Theres no evidence to suggest 
that Mrs A was interested in transferring out her DB scheme prior to meeting with Montfort, 
and the advice was given solely in connection with the planned move to Australia. So, if 
Montfort had provided Mrs A with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in her best interests to do so at that time, I think she wouldve 
accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Montfort should compensate Mrs A for the unsuitable advice, in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice.
Is it fair to hold Montfort fully responsible for Mrs As loss?
Montfort says that it shouldnt be held liable for Mrs As loss in any event because the 
transfer of her pension to an AS scheme was dealt with by an Australian IFA. It feels that 
business should be liable instead. But to my mind, it was the advice Mrs As received from 
Montfort to transfer out of her DB scheme to a SIPP that has led to her loss. And Im mindful 
that the advice was given solely on the basis that Mrs A would then transfer this pension to 
an AS scheme. While I appreciate an Australian IFA handled the onwards transfer to an AS 
scheme, that would not have happened but for Montforts unsuitable advice to transfer out of 
the DB scheme. So, I think its fair and reasonable to hold Montfort fully responsible for 
Mrs As loss here.
Redress
Calculating fair redress in this complaint is complicated by the fact that Mrs A went on to 
transfer her SIPP funds to an AS scheme. Montfort said throughout the advice process that if 
Mrs A transferred her funds to Australia, that she either could not, or it would be very difficult 
to transfer the funds back to the UK. However, the current position is unclear and 
I understand this may be further complicated by the fact that the AS scheme Mrs A 
transferred to was initially a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS), 
but Mrs A has since told us that it no longer recognised as such following a change in rules.
Mrs A provided a current statement for her AS scheme which showed a value of 
$46,257.99 AUD on 30 June 2023. She also provided a statement from July 2010 showing 
she made a tax-free overseas transfer of $23,935.74 AUD on 19 May 2010  this 
represented her DB scheme funds. The most recent statement shows she has not made any 
contributions to the pension since and Mrs A hasnt disputed this. Based on what Ive seen on the ATO website and the provider of Mrs As AS scheme website, it appears she will not 
be able to access or transfer her AS scheme funds to the UK until she reaches age 60.
Mrs A believes that if she were to transfer the value of her pension or take benefits from it at 
age 60, she would likely face a tax charge of around 40%, and believes the currency 
exchange risk and other charges could wipe a further 10% off the value.
Based on my understanding of the tax position, the income Mrs A takes from the pension will 
be subject to UK income tax. However, Mrs A wouldve always been subject to income tax 
on her DB scheme benefits, had she not transferred out of it and moved the funds to 
Australia. So, I dont think this is something Montfort needs to compensate her for as it is tax 
she wouldve always been required to pay.
I also havent seen evidence to persuade me that transferring the AS scheme funds to a UK-
based pension will incur UK capital gains tax, in addition to Mrs A having to pay UK income 
tax when she starts taking her benefits. However, there will evidently be costs involved in 
Mrs A taking the necessary specialist advice to move the funds back to the UK. She is also 
at risk of the currency exchange rate being unfavourable when the time comes to transfer 
the funds.
This all means that attaching a current value and estimating a future value of Mrs As AS 
scheme is difficult, and this value is an integral part of the redress calculation. So, in order to 
bring finality to both sides now, I have set out what I believe to be reasonable assumptions 
for Montfort to use when calculating redress. This is not intended to be a perfect solution, as 
I dont think such a thing exists given all the unknowns. However, I think what Im 
recommending is a fair and reasonable solution overall and I note that neither party has 
disputed this in response to my provisional decisions.
Assumptions
I think it is fair to assume that Mrs A will retire at age 60. And upon reaching that age I think 
it is more likely than not she will seek to transfer the value of her AS scheme to a UK 
pension scheme with a drawdown arrangement, for example, a low cost SIPP.
When Montfort calculates the value of Mrs As pension benefits which originated from the 
non-compliant pension transfer advice, this will need to be converted from AUD into GBP. 
Montfort should use the current Bank of England exchange rate as at the date of my final 
decision to make the conversion.
Compensation for consequential loss
I think Mrs A will most likely require specialist advice to transfer her AS scheme funds to a 
UK pension scheme when she reaches age 60. She is also likely to incur costs in converting 
her pension funds held in AUD to GBP.
On balance, I think it is fair for Montfort to pay her the sum of £2,000 to compensate her for 
this. I have reached this figure on the basis that a financial adviser will often charge between 
3% and 5% of the balance of the transferred funds. Mrs As funds are currently worth around 
£23,400, so if she achieves net growth of 5% per over the next ten years the fund could be 
worth approximately £40,000, and 5% of this is £2,000. And I think it is fair to allow for a 
charge on the higher end of the scale to ensure Mrs A isnt out of pocket when the time 
comes for her to transfer the funds and to also offset the costs of converting the funds into 
GBP.
Compensation for distress and inconvenienceMrs A says she has been further penalised because she believes her NRA under policy A 
was age 55 but she doesnt think she can access or transfer her AS scheme benefits until 
age 60. However, based on the information Mrs As former employer provided Montfort when 
it sent the new CETV in May 2009, Im satisfied Mrs As NRA was age 60. However, I do 
accept that Mrs A couldve likely accessed her DB scheme from age 55, with a lower 
pension, had she remained in this scheme. Whereas I understand the earliest she can take 
benefits from her AS scheme is age 60. So, she has been denied this flexibility as a result of 
Montforts advice.
Furthermore, Mrs A has explained that her pension becoming stuck in Australia has caused 
her significant distress and inconvenience. Mrs A has explained that she and Mr A are 
intending to divorce, and their pensions are assets that will be considered in the divorce 
settlement. The ongoing dispute with Montfort means theyre unable to settle the matter until 
redress is provided, and this is stopping her family from moving on with their lives.
Montfort disputes that Mrs A has been caused any distress and inconvenience by the advice 
she received. And it says it provided any documents requested promptly and responded to 
her complaint within the relevant timeframe.
In each of my provisional decisions, I said I thought Montfort should pay Mrs A £1,000 for the 
impact of the unsuitable advice. Mrs A said that she though this sum was too low and that a 
sum of £5,000 was more appropriate. She said Montfort had caused delays whilst the 
complaint has been with the Financial Ombudsman Service which had meant she and Mr A 
had to vacate court dates, and had incurred significant legal fees. She added that the 
inability to finalise their divorce also meant they were unable to sell their house, and this had 
resulted in a significant increase to their mortgage repayment due to their fixed rate ending. 
Mrs A said this was seriously affecting her mental health and it would mean even more legal 
fees as a direct consequence.
I dont doubt that this has been a difficult time for Mrs A and her family. I understand that the 
matter has caused her significant distress and will continue to do so until it is settled. Mrs A 
has lost the ability to access the pension that was moved to an AS scheme until age 60, 
whereas she couldve most likely accessed it at age 55 had she been advised to remain in 
the DB scheme. That cannot be remedied. She also has the added inconvenience of having 
to make arrangements to transfer her AS scheme back to the UK in the future. And until 
shes able to do this, I think this will have a significant impact on her retirement plans. 
But overall, I think the £1,000 I have awarded is fair compensation for the impact of the 
unsuitable advice Mrs A received in 2009. I dont think I can fairly attribute the additional 
legal fees or extra mortgage costs incurred to that event. Ultimately, these costs have arisen 
in connection with Mrs As impending divorce, and I think they are too far removed from the 
event complained about here. Although I appreciate the inability to resolve the complaint 
before now has had an impact, I had to be fair to both sides and provide them with the 
opportunity to comment on key pieces of evidence and my findings about them before 
making my final decision.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs A, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs A would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. Montfort must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mrs A has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, which I understand 
to be age 60, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mrs As acceptance of the final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Montfort should:
always calculate and offer Mrs A redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs A before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs A receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs A accepts Montforts offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs A for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs As end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs A as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Montfort may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mrs A 
would otherwise pay on income from her pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mrs As likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Its likely Mrs A will also incur charges for the transfer of her AS scheme back to a UK 
pension scheme, including adviser charges and possible exchange rate costs. I dont know 
what these exact costs will be, but as Ive set out above, I think £2,000 is reasonable sum in 
the circumstances. So, Montfort should pay Mrs A £2,000 for the additional costs shell likely 
face as a consequence of its advice.
Montfort should pay Mrs A £1,000 for the significant distress and inconvenience caused by 
the unsuitable advice.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Montfort International 
Limited to pay Mrs A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Montfort International Limited pays Mrs A the balance.
If Mrs A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Montfort International 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs A can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman