DRN-2879480
The complaint
Miss R complains that a car acquired with finance from FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as 
MotoNovo Finance) under a hire purchase agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2017 Miss R acquired a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. At the point of supply, the car was around six years old and had covered mileage 
of around 57,000.
Miss R experienced several issues with the car during the first two years, most of which 
were covered under a warranty agreement she had in place. 
In May 2020 the car broke down. Miss R had it recovered to the dealership who told her that 
the timing belt had failed and damaged the engine. Miss R was unhappy with this and 
complained to MotoNovo about it. She said the dealer had promised to change the timing 
belt prior to supplying it to her. She also said that she thought the cars mileage had been 
tampered with, or clocked and the car was worth less than the cash price at the time of 
supply. 
MotoNovo investigated Miss Rs concerns. They spoke to the dealership and they also 
arranged for an independent inspection to be undertaken. The dealership told MotoNovo that 
it was the camshaft that had broken, rather than the timing belt. And this was confirmed by 
the expert report that followed. 
MotoNovo didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint. They said the report confirmed the fault with the 
camshaft wouldnt have been present at the time the car was supplied. The car had covered 
approximately 92,000 miles at the time of the inspection, and Miss R had completed 35,000 
miles since acquiring the car. MotoNovo said there was no evidence to say the car wasnt of  
satisfactory quality when the agreement was taken out. As Miss R was unable to provide any 
evidence to suggest the dealership had agreed to change the timing belt prior to supply, and 
the dealership had no knowledge of this conversation, this part of Miss Rs complaint was 
also declined. Similarly, MotoNovo said there wasnt anything to suggest the cars mileage 
had been tampered with  it was in line with the cars MOT history  nor was there any 
evidence to show the value of the car had been inflated at the time the agreement was 
made. 
Miss R brought her complaint to our service. She also provided her own independent report. 
This report confirmed that it was the timing belt that had broken, not the camshaft. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the current fault with the timing belt 
and subsequent engine damage was due to general wear and tear on the car. She said that, 
based on the mileage covered in the car since supply and the comments made by both 
independent reports, she didnt think it was likely that the fault had been present or 
developing at the point of supply. Our investigator also told Miss R that she hadnt seen 
anything to suggest the cars mileage had been tampered with or that it had been 
over-valued at the time the agreement was taken out. 
Miss R didnt accept. She said all the problems shes experienced with the car prove it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. Shes unhappy as shes now left with a car that is dismantled, 
which she needs to transport her family. She had made MotoNovo an offer of £1,500 to 
settle the agreement. This was declined as MotoNovo said the car was of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply and the full settlement figure would be needed. 
As Miss R didnt accept, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MotoNovo supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Cars are of satisfactory quality if 
they are of a standard that a reasonable person would find acceptable, taking into account 
factors such as  amongst other things  the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I 
would expect a second-hand car, such as that supplied to Miss R, to have a degree of wear 
and tear and to require repairs and maintenance more often than a brand-new car. This is 
reflected in the price paid. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied 
that there was an inherent fault with the car, as opposed to a fault caused by general wear 
and tear. 
Miss R and MotoNovo disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision, I need to look at all the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probability, whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Im aware that Miss R has mentioned faults that occurred on the car prior to bringing her 
complaint about the timing belt to our service. Amongst the faults mentioned were faulty 
alternators, faulty injectors, power steering failure, CD and Bluetooth not working, a clonking 
noise and a loose ball joint. Our investigator has explained that these cant be determined 
as theyve been brought to our service out of time. By out of time, the investigator explained 
to Miss R that the faults had been addressed by MotoNovo in their final responses more 
than six months before this latest complaint was brought to us. As this has already been 
explained to Miss R I wont be commenting on it within this decision. 
Ive considered the reports provided by Miss R and MotoNovo. They give conflicting reasons 
for the problem, one suggesting its the camshaft and the one provided by Miss R suggesting 
its the timing belt. Both reports are persuasive with regard to a fault with the car, but both 
also say the fault wouldnt have been present at the point of supply. So, even though I 
accept there is a fault with the car, that doesnt mean I think it wasnt of a satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. The current fault with the timing belt or camshaft occurred when the 
car had covered around 92,000 miles. This means that the car had covered around 35,000 
miles since Miss R acquired it and before the fault occurred. If there had been a fault with 
the timing belt or camshaft at the point of supply, I would have expected it to have become 
apparent much sooner. I dont think it would have been possible to cover the mileage Miss R 
has if the fault had been present or developing at the point of supply. 
Miss R has said that the dealership had promised to change the timing belt prior to supplying 
her the car. I havent seen anything to suggest that, but even if the timing belt hadnt been 
changed, I dont think it means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. At 
the point of supply the car hadnt covered the miles that would have ordinarily required the 
timing belt to be replaced. So, it sounds like an unusual promise for the dealership to have 
made unless Miss R had picked up on a specific issue with the timing belt that had caused 
her concern. She hasnt said that she did. Miss R has provided her own inspection report which confirms that the expert doesnt consider the timing belt failure would have been 
present or developing at the point of supply, and Im persuaded by this. Taking everything 
into account, I dont think theres enough evidence to show that the car had this fault at the 
point of supply. 
Miss R has also raised concerns about the specified mileage on the car when it was 
supplied, along with the value of it. Miss Rs agreement shows the mileage of the car at the 
point of supply as 57,096. Whereas the MOT history for the car shows the mileage as 
57,958 when it passed its MOT in October 2017  two months prior to Miss R being supplied 
with the car. I understand why Miss R might be concerned about this. But I dont think this 
alone confirms the mileage of the car has been tampered with. Im satisfied that, had the car 
mileage been clocked as suggested, it would have been done so with a higher mileage 
reduction to make the process worthwhile. The car would have had to have covered a lot of 
miles between its MOT in October 2017 and when it was supplied in December 2017, to 
make this discrepancy in mileage worthwhile. Im more persuaded that its an administration 
error on either the MOT document or the hire purchase agreement, so I cant say the car has 
been clocked. 
Miss R has said shes unhappy with the value attributed to the car when it was supplied to 
her. But Ive checked the car valuation when it was supplied to Miss R against one of the 
industry guide prices at the time and its in line with that. I dont uphold this part of Miss Rs 
complaint. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point it was acquired. The time and mileage which has elapsed since Miss R acquired it until 
the timing belt or camshaft broke make it more likely that the fault is due to general wear and 
tear. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss R and she finds herself in a difficult 
situation, but I wont be asking MotoNovo to do anything further here
Miss R is unhappy that MotoNovo havent accepted her offer of £1,500 to settle the 
agreement early. She has said she cant get any more for the car than that, due to its 
condition, and feels that MotoNovo should acknowledge this. However, as Ive decided that I 
think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, Im satisfied that the full 
settlement figure can be asked for by MotoNovo to end the agreement. If Miss R is 
struggling financially, then I would expect MotoNovo to work with her to come to an 
arrangement to pay the outstanding amount. 
During her communication with our investigator, Miss R has also mentioned a problem with 
the BSI unit in the car. As this has never been addressed by MotoNovo and wasnt part of 
the original complaint brought to our service, I havent considered it in this decision.My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman