DRN-2430794
The complaint
Mr M complains that the services that were supplied under a fixed sum loan financed by 
Shawbrook Bank Limited were misrepresented. He also complains at being pressurised into 
accepting the loan. He wants the loan to be cancelled  
What happened
Mr M states that in February 2018 he was trying to sell his house. And that he instructed an 
estate agency Ill refer to as Y to assist in this process. Ys fee was to be paid by the fixed 
sum loan. He says that Ys representative told him the house would be sold before the loan 
needed to be repaid in ten months time. Mr M explains he felt the sales agent was pushy. 
And he further complains he wasnt told about a no sale, no fee option.
Shawbrook told us that the no sale, no fee option hadnt been available at the time Mr M 
took out the loan. And that Ys terms and conditions made it clear there could be no 
guarantee the property would sell or within what time frame.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She found there 
was insufficient information to show that Mr M had been misled about the agreement or the 
likelihood of the property being sold. And that as Mr M had completed the finance application 
without the sales agent being present, she didnt think hed been pressured. She confirmed 
that the no sale, no fee option hadnt been available when Mr M took out the agreement.
Mr M didnt accept this outcome. He still felt hed been pushed and misled into the 
agreement. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked 
to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr M has experienced the upset and delay in trying to get his house sold. 
Selling property can be a stressful business at the best of times. And I understand that Mr M 
could do without the additional issues to which the circumstances of this complaint relate.
Mr Ms complaint amounts to an allegation of misrepresentation of the agreement. And 
specifically he alleges he was told the property would be sold before the sales fee became 
payable. And that this would allow him to repay the loan out of sale proceeds. He states that 
the property wasnt sold and his credit rating has been damaged as a result of the default on 
the loan.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a customer to enter an 
agreement. And to suffer a loss as a result of the misrepresentation. And whilst I dont apply 
the law  directly  I do take it into account. The Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant law. 
This provides that in some circumstances the supplier of finance may be liable for any 
misrepresentation made by the credit broker and / or supplier of services or in antecedent 
negotiations.
For obvious reasons I wasnt present during the discussions Mr M had with Ys sales 
representative. So I cant be sure of exactly what was said. But Id have thought that anyone 
seeking to sell their house would know that there was no guarantee of a sale  still less one 
being assured within a limited time frame. 
Ys terms and conditions also state:
Due to the nature of the Services, we do not guarantee that you will receive viewings 
requests, receive an offer or ultimately complete the sale of the Property.
As a misrepresentation has to be a statement of fact  rather than opinion  its improbable 
that anything the agent said about the future chances of a sale were factual. They were 
more likely to be based on opinion or past experience. Im unable to say theres been a 
misrepresentation.
Any sales pitch is likely to provide some measure of pressure  the agent is trying to sell a 
product. But here Mr M apparently completed the forms after the agent had left. And the 
finance agreement itself contained a 14 day cooling off period. So Mr M couldve withdrawn 
from that. Although I accept that wouldnt necessarily have cancelled any agreement he 
might have with Y. Im unable to conclude on the information Ive seen that there was any 
undue pressure used.
Ive also seen information which shows that at the time of Mr Ms meeting with the sales 
agent and the later date on which his agreement became live, the no sale, no fee option 
wasnt available with Y. 
I accept Mr Ms point that many estate agents offer a no sale, no fee arrangement. But 
thats for each business to decide. And if this was important to Mr M it was open to him to go 
to a business offering such a service.
Whilst I empathise with Mr M that the failure to sell the property has led to him facing 
difficulty in repaying the loan, I dont find thats the result of any misrepresentation by Y for 
which Shawbrook would be liable.
If Shawbrook reports the account to the credit reference agencies its required to ensure that 
any report is accurate. And if that includes arrears then that is likely to impact on Mr Ms 
credit file.
Mr M has mentioned that Shawbrook has been sending texts to him about the account. But 
as Ive not seen specific details, I cant comment upon whether these are excessive. But 
Shawbrook is required to treat Mr M with forbearance and due consideration if hes 
struggling to repay the debt. So if Mr M has any concerns about this, he may wish to take 
them up formally with Shawbrook.In summary, I find that Shawbrook was entitled to conclude theres been no 
misrepresentation by Y for which it was liable. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman