DRN-4401354
The complaint
Miss A and Mr A are unhappy with the settlement theyve been given by Admiral Insurance
(Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) following the theft of their vehicle.
What happened
In May 2023 Miss A and Mr As vehicle was stolen, so they made a claim to Admiral, their
car insurance provider.
Admiral offered a settlement of £8,971.50 (before excess deduction) which they said was the
market value of the vehicle.
Miss A and Mr A were unhappy with the settlement offered and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. She obtained her own
vehicle valuations and she said Admirals settlement offer was unfair. So, she recommended
Admiral increase this by £1,177.84, with 8% interest added from the original date of
settlement to date of payment of the remainder.
Miss A and Mr A agreed with the investigators recommendations. Admiral didnt agree with
the recommendation, and they suggested that a different settlement amount would be
reasonable based on what the investigator had said.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I reached a slightly different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive reached a slightly different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a 
provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial 
findings before I reach my final decision.
Miss A and Mr As policy terms outline that in the event of a claim, Admiral will pay up 
to the market value of the vehicle. This is defined in the policy as:
Market value
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, 
mileage and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss 
happened. Use of the term market refers to where your vehicle was 
purchased. This value is based on research from industry recognised motor 
trade guides.
Admiral determined the market value of Miss A and Mr As car using valuations 
obtained through industry trade guides as outlined in the policy terms. These resulted 
in valuations of:
Glasss £8,660
CAPS £9,175
After averaging the two valuations, this resulted in Admiral making a settlement offer 
of £8,917.50 prior to excess deduction.
Miss A and Mr A dispute the valuation is fair and think this should be higher. They 
also provided their own valuation from a website, which totalled £10,270.
This services typical approach when considering complaints about the fair market 
value of a vehicle is to take into account what the market leading motor trade guides 
say the market value is. The guides are independent of the insurance industry, and 
from one another. As a service, generally, we find these guides to be particularly 
persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research and 
likely sales figures.
When investigating Miss A and Mr As complaint, our investigator also obtained 
valuations from the same guides as Admiral, along with other valuation guides we 
use in cases such as this. This resulted in the following valuations:
Glasss £8,760
CAPS £9,195
Autotrader £10,215
Percayso (formerly Cazoo) £10,876The investigator said the Glasss valuation was out of line with the rest, so she 
disregarded it. She then averaged the three remaining guides, which she said 
totalled £10,095 (its actually £10,095.33). So, she said Admirals valuation should be 
increased and the shortfall of £1,177.84 (its £1,177.83 if rounded down rather than 
up) should be paid to Miss A and Mr A, with 8% simple interest added.
Admiral responded and accepted an increase appeared warranted, but they didnt 
agree with the recommended increase of £1,177.84. This was on the basis they 
didnt think the figure of £8,760 should disregarded from the average of the guides. 
They further explained:
From reviewing the figures you have provided, the difference between the 
lower figures of £8760 and £9195 is £435. It then jumps by over £1000 to the 
two higher figures. The difference between £10,215 and £10,876 is £661. 
Therefore, if any should be disregarded it would be £10,876 as this is the one 
more out of line than the others.
The fairest way for this vehicle to be valued is to use the average of all 4 
guides due to how they are quite evenly spread out. The average of all 4 
guides is a recognised solution by your service.
The average of the four valuations you have provided is £9761.50. This would 
be an increase of £844 and we would add 8% simple interest to this increase. 
Alternatively, if you were going to disregard one of the valuations for being out 
of line then this should be £10,876 (based on the justification above) and the 
resulting average of the 3 other valuations would be £9390. This would be an 
increase of £472.50 with 8% simple interest.
Im minded to agree with what Admiral says here. I dont agree with our investigator 
that the lowest valuation is an outlier as the difference between that and the next 
valuation is less than the difference between the third highest and highest. So, if any 
were to be out of line, it would be the highest, rather than the lowest. But there isnt 
really a significant difference between either the lowest or the highest from its next 
closest valuation that I would consider would make either to be an outlier from the 
rest.
But, as pointed out by Admiral, there is a large difference between the two lowest 
and two highest instead. Given this, I think the most fair and reasonable approach 
here would be to average all four of the guides, as suggested by Admiral, rather than 
discounting the lowest (or highest). This results in a valuation of £9,761.50 instead of 
the settlement paid by Admiral totalling £8,917.50.
Placing a valuation on a car isnt an exact science, and given the range of values, Im
minded to conclude averaging all four guides provides a fair valuation in all the
circumstances.
I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Miss A and Mr A that Im not minded 
to increase the settlement in line with our investigators recommendation of 
£1,177.84 (which they accepted but Admiral didnt). But following this approach, 
which I think is fair in the circumstances for the reasons explained, this does still 
result in an increase in the settlement amount by £844.
In addition to increasing the settlement by £844, Im also minded to direct Admiral to 
add 8% simple interest from the date of payment of the original settlement to date of 
payment of the remainder.So, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct Admiral to increase the settlement by 
£844 with 8% simple interest added.
The responses to my provisional decision
Miss A and Mr A responded confirming they agreed with the provisional decision.
Admiral didnt respond by the deadline for responses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional conclusions I reached. Having done so, and 
as neither party has provided anything which would lead me to depart from my provisional 
decision, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to:
Increase the total loss settlement by £844
Add 8% simple interest* from date of payment of the original settlement to date of 
payment of the additional amount above
* If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss A and Mr A how much its 
taken off. It should also give Miss A and Mr A a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, 
so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman