DRN-4405965
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the assistance he received from AWP P&C SA and with delays in 
handling his claim. 
What happened
Mr S was on holiday when he became unwell in a remote location. He received medical 
treatment and recovered to the extent that he was able to continue on his trip. However, he 
became unwell again with similar symptoms and needed further assistance and treatment. 
Mr S is unhappy with the emergency assistance he received and with delays in handling his 
claim for expenses when he returned to the UK. AWP offered Mr S £100 compensation as a 
gesture of goodwill. Unhappy, Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr Ss complaint. He thought 
that the compensation should be increased to a total of £300 as there had been delays in 
handling the claim and poor customer service. 
AWP accepted the investigators recommendation. Mr S didnt agree and asked an 
ombudsman to review his complaint  he thought £800 to £1000 would be fairer 
compensation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. 
I think a total of £300 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case 
as Im satisfied it fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S. 
Ive taken into account that Mr S was in a remote location and worried about his personal 
safety. I can appreciate that he was distressed, worried and frustrated by the poor 
communication and lack of contact with AWP. I accept what Mr S has said about how 
frightening and upsetting it was, particularly when he was feeling very unwell. 
However, Mr S was able to access the medical care he needed, and Im satisfied that AWP 
were trying to make arrangements to assist Mr S as best they could, even if they didnt 
communicate this to him very effectively. 
AWP had a plan to move Mr S to a different medical facility. Mr S didnt want to attend that 
location as it would have involved a long road trip and would have caused issues with Mr S 
continuing with his original itinerary. I can entirely understand why Mr S wanted to go to a 
facility which was more convenient. However, his insurer isnt required to take him to the 
most convenient location, and I think AWPs proposal was a reasonable one considering the 
overall circumstances. 
Mr Ss claim has since been settled. Ive taken into account what Mr S has said about the 
subsequent claims process being tortuous and stressful. I can understand why further delays 
and poor service added to Mr Ss frustration and caused him further inconvenience. 
However, I think a total award of £300 fairly reflects the overall impact on Mr S. 
Putting things right
AWP needs to put things right by paying Mr S a total of £300 compensation, inclusive of the 
£100 its already offered to Mr S. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right in the way Ive 
outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman