DRN-3166256
The complaint
This complaints about a Woolwich-branded interest-only mortgage Ms C holds with Barclays 
Bank UL PLC. Her complaint is that:
a further advance of £7,000 that Barclays say she took out in 1989 happened without her 
knowledge or consent; and
the mortgage should have been repaid by now.
What happened
By way of a jurisdiction decision issued on 3 November 2021, I set out the reasons why our 
remit to consider this complaint was confined to the second bullet point listed above; that is, 
that the mortgage should have been repaid by now.
Both parties were given a further two weeks to make any final comments on the issue before 
I dealt with the merits. That time has now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
I appreciate Ms C believes shes already paid enough through the overpayments she began 
making several years ago to have cleared the balance in full. But she hasnt provided any 
substantive argument as to why she thinks the mortgage statements that continue to show 
an outstanding balance are wrong. 
If Ms C has a real and substantive belief that she no longer owes Barclays any money, it is 
open to her to arrange for the account to be audited by a suitably qualified and independent 
party. The evidence of the audit could then be used as the basis for a new complaint, but not 
as the basis for this one. I make the latter point because Barclays would need to be 
presented with the finished audit first, and be given the opportunity to consider and respond 
to it. 
Ms C would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that were to her 
detriment, we would then expect Barclays to reimburse any reasonable cost of the audit as 
well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as things stand, 
theres no evidence that gives me any reason to think that Barclays has mis-calculated 
Ms Cs mortgage to the extent that its asking her to pay money she no longer owes.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman