DRN-2872750
The complaint
Mr D is authorised in law to bring this complaint on Mrs Ds behalf. He complains that U K 
Insurance Limited has paid insufficient compensation for its poor handling of a subsidence 
claim on Mrs Ds policy. All references to UK I include its claims handling agents. 
What happened
Mr D has produced a detailed timeline of the claim in his submissions to this service. This 
timeline isnt disputed by UK I, so I dont think it would be helpful to reproduce it again in 
detail here. Whats in dispute is whether UK I has paid sufficient compensation. 
At the end of the claim, UK I paid a total of £4,906.75. This was made up in part by a 
payment of £2,371.09 from its claims handling agent, which was predominantly intended to 
reimburse Mr D for his out of pocket expenses. It consisted of:
£367.04 towards Mr Ds fuel costs;
£1,050 to reimburse Mr D for professional reports he arranged;
£304.05 to reimburse Mr D for materials he purchased himself;
£300 for time Mr D spent completing / correcting work done by the first contractor;
£350 compensation.
It later agreed to increase this to £2,500. The rest was paid by UK I, and consisted of:
£1,500 compensation;
£400 for time Mr D spent completing / correcting work done by the second contractor;
£506.75 for Mr Ds remaining outstanding fuel costs;
Mr D notes that £1,850 was marked as compensation. When that amount is shared between 
him and Mrs D, its £925 each. He feels UK I should increase the offer to at least £2,500. 
He said:
He made an extra 14 journeys as a result of UK Is errors. This equated to 150 hours 
and 4,340 miles, which caused wear and tear to his car; 
He had to organise for a structural engineer, then a chartered surveyor, to visit the 
property and report on their findings;
He had to monitor work done by the contractors, then source and purchase materials 
and complete the works himself;
He spent an additional 33 days completing the works; 
He had to correspond at length with the parties involved in the claim. He estimates 
he sent more than 320 emails and letters, and made countless phone calls; 
The whole experience caused him and Mrs D stress, distress and sleepless nights;
Some of the inadequate repair work put Mrs D in physical danger. 
Our investigator didnt think UK I needed to do anything further, but Mr D disagreed. So, Ive 
been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr D is authorised in law to represent Mrs D, the policy is in her sole name. The policy 
covers certain family members if they normally live with the person named on the schedule.  
But Mr D lives elsewhere. As Mr D isnt named on the policy, and isnt able to benefit from it, 
he hasnt got the type of relationship with UK I that would enable him to complain to us in his 
own right. He can only bring the complaint as a representative of Mrs D. 
As such, Mrs D is the only eligible complainant here. And I can only ask UK I to pay redress 
for distress and inconvenience experienced by an eligible complainant  not by a third party. 
Bearing this in mind, I can only consider the impact UK Is errors had on Mrs D. The impact 
UK Is errors had on Mr D are only relevant to my considerations if I think there was a knock 
on impact on Mrs D. 
Mr D seems satisfied any financial losses have now been reimbursed. Hes brought the 
complaint to us because he thinks the compensation for non-financial loss should be 
increased from £1,850 to at least £2,500. 
Subsidence claims, by their nature, will inevitably involve disruption and upheaval, even 
when theyre handled well. Ive therefore only considered the extent to which UK Is handling 
of the claim made things worse than they otherwise might have been. Ive kept in mind that 
Mrs D is very vulnerable, that she has severely restricted mobility, and that the property is a 
bungalow, so she wasnt able to remove herself from the disruption going on around her.  
The shortcomings in UK Is handling of this claim are well documented. Disputes arose over  
schedules of work, which later had to be amended when Mr D submitted second opinions. 
Repair work went on longer than it should have and often wasnt of a satisfactory standard. 
Lots of it either had to be repeated, sometimes by new contractors (and sometimes more 
than once), or put right by Mr D. This meant more site visits, correspondence and expenses. 
A schedule of works was sent to Mr D in summer 2018, but work went on well into 2020.
This increased the disruption to Mrs D in terms of the amount of work that was carried out 
around her, the number of different people coming and going from the property and the time 
it took to conclude the repair work. This undoubtedly made things more unsettling than they 
otherwise would have been, and prolonged her discomfort. 
I also think Mr Ds ability to reassure Mrs D would have been impacted by the amount of 
time he had to spend managing the claim. And Im mindful that, for all the reasons hes 
described, he had his own frustrations with everything that was happening. Im sure this 
would have been apparent to Mrs D and that it would have intensified her sense of unease.
However, the inconvenience of hosting extra site visits, arranging professional reports, 
overseeing and completing the work and speaking to the different parties involved in the 
claim was all borne by Mr D. And for the reasons explained above, I dont have the power to 
make an award for any inconvenience suffered by Mr D. These factors didnt impact Mrs D 
except insofar as they caused her to worry about the impact they were having on Mr D.  
UK I and its claims handling agent paid a total of £1,850 compensation. Mr D understood 
this was to be shared between him and Mrs D. I think it arguably was presented in that way. 
Bearing in mind all of the considerations set out above, I think £925, in broad terms, reflects 
the non-financial impact on Mrs D of UK Is errors. Ive decided not to make a further award.  My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to direct UK I to pay further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D (on behalf of 
Mrs D) to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman