DRN-3099876
The complaint
Mrs C complains about PRA Group (UK) Limited trading as PRA Groups actions when
seeking to recover a debt.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
In February 2016 PRA Group acquired a credit card debt in Mrs Cs name from another 
business (M). PRA says Mrs Cs credit card with M was closed and defaulted in 
December 2015 and that the outstanding balance was £4,486.69.
In June 2016 Mrs C asked PRA to provide information to show the transactions and how 
the balance had built. PRA initially referred Mrs C back to M for the information she 
wanted. But in July 2017 it sent her a transaction list.
Mrs C has told us she later found two entries from PRA for the same account on her credit 
file. PRA agreed to remove one of the entries. Mrs C says the balance recorded was 
wrong. In November 2017 Mrs C complained as she didnt agree the transactions 
provided were correct. PRA placed a collections hold on Mrs Cs account, but didnt 
progress her complaint.
PRA has sent Mrs C settlement offers since she complained. In July 2019 PRA issued its 
final response and apologised that it had failed to respond to Mrs Cs complaint in good 
time. PRA reduced the outstanding debt by £50 to reflect the inconvenience caused. PRA 
also said transactions that occurred prior to the date it became owner of the debt wouldnt 
show on its credit file entry.
Mrs C referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought PRA had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else.
On Mrs Cs behalf, Mr C asked to appeal. He said Mrs C had been let down by both PRA 
and M and that neither business had sent the information theyd asked for. Mr C also said 
PRA shouldnt have referred Mrs C back to M for information about her credit card. Mr C 
said there had been unacceptable delays in PRA responding to Mrs Cs queries and 
concerns. As Mrs C did r complaint has been passed to
me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by saying that, in this decision, Im only able to look at PRAs actions, not 
Ms. I know Mrs C has referred both complaints to us and there was a delay in raising the 
issue directly with M. Ive considered whether we need to place the PRA case on hold 
whilst the complaint about M is reviewed by an investigator. I dont think thats necessary. 
Im looking at PRAs actions from February 2016 when it acquired the debt from M and Im 
satisfied I can fairly consider Mrs Cs complaint as the case stands.
Id like to thank Mr C for the level of detail hes included in his submissions. I want to 
ensure Mr and Mrs C Ive read and considered everything provided by all parties. If I dont 
specifically comment on a point thats been raised it isnt because I havent considered it. I 
have, but my decision will focus on what I think are the key issues of Mrs Cs complaint. 
My approach reflects the rules we operate under and the informal nature of this service, 
as a free alternative to the courts.
I think Mrs Cs case can be broadly split into two parts. Whether PRA is seeking to collect 
the correct amount from Mrs C and the way its handled her account since it bought the 
debt. Im going to begin by looking at the level of debt PRA says Mrs C owes.
Mrs C complains that there has been some inconsistency from PRA and M concerning what 
she owes. Mrs C also says the information recorded on her credit file doesnt correctly 
reflect the balance. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C but I havent found that to be the case. Ill 
explain why.
Ive reviewed the transaction list PRA provided in 2017. I independently checked the 
figures from inception and found the outstanding balance was correctly stated as 
£4,486.69, the debt PRA says it bought from M. Im satisfied PRA is seeking to recover 
the correct balance from Mrs C.
Mr C has queried why the pre purchase payments PRA provided details of in 2017 dont 
match the transaction list. Looking at the transaction list, I can see the three payments listed 
by PRA match those M says Mrs C made in 2015. And PRAs final response explains that 
the information it provided only related to the year before it purchased Mrs Cs account from 
M. Thats the reason no other credits are shown on the information in question.
Mr C says the transaction information doesnt show where Mrs Cs payments came from. 
But the payments were all made prior to the date PRA bought the debt. So I wouldnt 
expect PRA to have that information.
Mr C has raised concerns that the level of debt hasnt remained consistent and I can see 
he has mentioned a figure of £4,038.02. Looking at the settlement letters PRA has sent, I 
can see it says the debt Mrs C owes is £4,486.69 but that it would accept £4,038.02 as a 
one off payment. The £4,486 figure quoted on Mrs Cs credit file entry is in line with the 
transaction list Ive mentioned above and other information provided by PRA.
Whilst I dont agree the amount PRA is seeking to collect is wrong, I am concerned about 
the delays Mrs C has experienced. Mrs C has explained she was unclear about the debt 
PRA was seeking to recover and quite reasonably asked it to supply information to verify 
its claims. I dont think it was unreasonable to refer Mrs C back to M in the first instance for 
information about the transactions that made up her credit card debt. And I can see that r
Mrs C contacted PRA again it took steps to obtain the information she asked for from M.
The transaction list and associated information was sent to Mrs C in July 2017 and she 
raised a complaint in November 2017. PRA has explained it made a mistake which meant 
it took no action in relation to Mrs Cs complaint. Whilst complaint handling itself isnt a 
regulated activity, I can see Mrs C wanted to establish the debt PRA was asking her to 
repay was hers and the amount correct. I can also see Mrs C could have used some 
assistance from PRA in understanding the information it sent her. In my view, the delay in 
responding to Mrs Cs complaint has had a negative impact here as she hasnt felt confident in the information PRA has provided to the point where a payment plan has been 
agreed.
So whilst I havent found any errors in the amounts PRA has requested from Mrs C, Im 
not persuaded that the £50 its paid to date fairly reflects its delay and the frustration 
caused. As a result, I intend to tell PRA to pay a further £200 to Mrs C (as a direct 
payment) to reflect the impact of its delay on her and the trouble and upset caused. In my 
view, thats a fairer way to resolve Mrs Cs complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any further information they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. PRA confirmed it had nothing further 
to add. 
On Mrs Cs behalf, Mr C responded and said they were still concerned that PRA wasnt 
seeking to recover the right amount. Mr C also asked that, as Mrs C has an ongoing 
complaint about M, we instruct PRA to delay collections activity until thats resolved. 
Mr C also advised that Mrs C had been sent a proposed settlement from PRA and was 
concerned it was being used as leverage whilst her complaint was being considered by this 
service. 
Id like to thank Mr and Mrs C for their responses. As I said in my provisional decision and a 
follow up email, I manually checked the transaction list PRA obtained from M. I looked at all 
the transactions and completed my own calculations. I reached £4,486.69 which matches 
the balance PRA says it brought. I understand Mrs C has concerns that the final figure was 
wrong, but Im satisfied PRA is seeking to recover the correct balance from her. 
As Im satisfied PRA is working with the correct balance, I dont agree its acted unfairly by 
asking Mrs C to make payments or come to an agreement. I understand Mrs C wants PRA 
to place a hold on collections activity until her complaint about M has been resolved. But as 
PRA is seeking to recover the correct balance, I havent found grounds to tell it to put 
collections activity on hold. 
I can see PRA recently sent Mrs C settlement information and understand shes concerned it 
was trying to pressure her. I dont think PRA was trying to apply undue pressure. From the 
information Ive seen, I think this was part of its continued collections plan and an attempt to 
arrange settlement of the outstanding balance. 
In my provisional decision I said PRA should pay Mrs C a further £200 to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the way it handled her account queries. I still think thats the 
fairest way to resolve Mrs Cs complaint. As a result, Im going to uphold Mrs Cs complaint 
in line with my provisional decision.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct PRA Group (UK) Limited trading as 
PRA Group to pay Mrs C a further £200. The payment should be made directly to Mrs C.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman