DRN-1713565
The complaint
Ms H complains that an appointed representative of Openwork Limited submitted a 
mortgage application without her agreement and based on incorrect information. The lender 
rejected the application and made an entry about Ms H on a fraud prevention database.
What happened
Its not in dispute that Ms H approached Openwork for mortgage advice. A fact find and 
application was completed. The mortgage adviser emailed Ms H to confirm some details with 
her and enclosed a privacy / data protection notice.
The broker received a reply from Ms Hs email account authorising him to go ahead with the 
application. The application was submitted. The lender asked some questions, which the 
broker responded to following a further exchange of emails. 
The lender then considered the application. It refused to offer Ms H a mortgage. Ms H then 
learned that the lender had placed an entry about her on a fraud prevention database.
Ms H complained to the lender. She explained the impact the entry had had on her and her 
ability to manage her finances. She asked for it to be removed. The lender said it wouldnt 
remove the marker. Ms H complained to us and we didnt uphold her complaint about the 
lender.
Ms H then complained to Openwork. She said the broker hadnt completed the application 
accurately. The broker had told the lender she was unmarried and a first-time buyer, and 
neither of those things were true. And the information about her expenditure was wrong too. 
She said that he had submitted the application without her consent. She said that emails 
from her account were sent without her knowledge or agreement by her mother, and the 
broker shouldnt have proceeded without a signed authorisation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the broker didnt need a signed 
authorisation to proceed and acted reasonably in relying on the emails from Ms Hs account, 
some of which she accepted having sent. And she said the errors Ms H had pointed to in the 
application werent what had led the lender to make the entry on the database.
Ms H asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She said this was a separate 
complaint to the one against the lender and it wasnt fair to consider evidence from another 
complaint as part of this one. She said the mortgage application was submitted without her 
consent, with false information, so wasnt a valid application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with the point Ms H makes about treating this case separately to the one against 
the lender. It is a separate case, and has been investigated separately by a different investigator. However, the two cases are related and concern the same mortgage 
application.
Our rules say that its a matter for the Financial Ombudsman Service, not any of the parties 
to a complaint, to decide what is relevant evidence and what we take into account.
In this case, the investigator contacted the lender herself to confirm the details of the 
application it received, the reasons it was declined, and why it rejected Ms Hs complaint to 
it. Those are matters that are clearly relevant to the investigation into whether the broker has 
done anything wrong. And by signing our complaint form to complain about the broker, Ms H 
authorised us to contact third parties  such as the lender  to obtain any evidence that we 
consider relevant.
Ive considered all the evidence here. Im not persuaded that the application was submitted 
without Ms Hs knowledge or agreement. I think its clear that the earlier emails at least, 
including the one on 25 January authorising the application, were sent by Ms H. And even if 
later ones werent sent by her  and Im not making that finding  I think it was reasonable 
for the broker to believe they were, and to rely on them in progressing the application.
I think Ms H authorised the application being submitted to the lender. The lender considered 
it, and after asking for further information, rejected the application. The rejection wasnt 
because of any of the errors Ms H has identified in her complaint brought against Openwork. 
Nor was the database entry. 
Having considered all the evidence, Im satisfied Ms H applied, through the broker, for this 
mortgage. And I dont think the broker was responsible for its rejection, or for the entry the 
lender placed on the database. Taking everything into account, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman