DRN-3541237
The complaint
Miss W complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund a payment 
she made using her debit card for flights which were cancelled due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
What happened
In October 2019, Miss W used her debit card to pay for return flights abroad from a company 
I will refer to as S. Miss W was due to go abroad with her friend and she initially paid 
company S over £600 of the overall cost of the flights which was over £1,300. The flights 
were due to depart on 5 April 2020 and return on 16 April 2020. 
In March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advised 
against all but necessary travel abroad. By 23 March 2020, the UK entered a full lockdown. 
Miss W says the flights were cancelled as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Miss W and her friend were provided with a credit note of £1,375.24 by S on 4 April 2020. 
The credit note was valid until April 2022. 
 
In August 2020, S ceased trading and entered into liquidation.  As a result of this, Miss W 
and her friend contacted ABTA in September 2020 to query whether a refund could be 
provided as they could no longer use their credit note. Instead, Miss W says they were 
directed to the airline company. Miss W says the airline company could not assist as it had 
issued a refund to S already. 
In November 2020, ABTA advised Miss W and her friend that a chargeback claim should be 
attempted if a debit card was used to purchase the flights.  
In December 2020, Miss W completed a credit dispute form and provided supporting 
evidence for her chargeback claim to Nationwide. Nationwide credited a temporary refund of 
over £600 to Miss W (which was for Miss Ws portion of the flight cost) while it investigated 
the chargeback claim. 
In March 2021, Nationwide sent Miss W a letter to explain that the temporary refund amount 
would be re-debited from her account as the chargeback wasnt successful. Nationwide 
further explained that Miss W had raised her claim outside of the relevant time limits. 
Unhappy with this, Miss W referred her complaint to our service. She explained that her 
friends claim for her portion of the overall credit note amount of £1,375.24 had been 
successful and that she received a refund of over £600. Miss W explained that the account 
being re-debited put her into an unauthorised overdraft, which meant she couldnt pay her 
rent and bills. Miss W says she had to rely on family members to help her out and to give her 
the money. Miss W also felt she raised the chargeback claim within the relevant time limits, 
specifically, 120 days since she found out S went into liquidation and within 540 days of the 
original transaction. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He concluded that Nationwide acted fairly 
when declining Miss Ws complaint. Our investigator agreed that the chargeback claim fell 
outside of the relevant time limits. 
As Miss W didnt agree with our Investigator, the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether Nationwide unfairly declined Miss Ws chargeback claim. If I 
think it did, Ill consider what, if anything, it needs to do to put things right. Nationwide say 
the chargeback claim was out of time, Miss W disagrees. 
Chargeback is a method a bank can use to attempt to obtain a refund for a consumer who 
has made payments on a debit card. There is no consumer right to a chargeback, but I 
would expect a bank to attempt a chargeback where it would have a reasonable prospect of 
succeeding. This would generally mean that the chargeback would need to comply with the 
rules set by the card scheme (Visa, in this case).
Our Investigator correctly identified that the dispute would likely be raised under the reason 
code 13.1 Merchandise/Services Not Received, as Miss W states the original flights were 
cancelled, and the credit note which was offered as an alternative was no longer valid. The 
relevant rules in this case state: 
A dispute must be processed no later than either:
-120 calendar days from the Transaction Processing Date 
-120 calendar days from the last date that the Cardholder expected to receive the 
merchandise or services [not to exceed 540 calendar days from the Transaction 
Processing Date).
In Miss Ws case, as the return flight was due on 16 April 2020, she wouldve had 120 days 
from this date to raise a chargeback. This meaning that Miss W would needed to have raised 
her chargeback claim with Nationwide by August 2020. So, by the time Miss W raised her 
concerns with Nationwide in December 2020, it was too late as this was outside of the 120 
days.
I appreciate Miss W feels the time limit should be applied at the point she was informed that 
company S had become insolvent. Miss W says this because this is when she became 
aware she could no longer use her credit note, and so she raised her dispute within 120 
days from that point. 
I understand why Miss W may feel this way, however, Visa issued further guidance for 
circumstances where a customer may be impacted due to the pandemic. This guidance 
explained its position regarding a variety of issues which included the time limits for bringing 
a chargeback claim when a business has become insolvent. 
The relevant guidance states:
 Q: The merchant was unable to provide services and issued a credit note or in store credit 
that was accepted by the cardholder, however the merchant has now become insolvent and 
no longer provides the services. Does the issuer have dispute rights? 
Yes. The issuer can pursue a dispute as the original services were not rendered using 
Dispute Condition 13.1  Merchandise/Services Not Received. The timeframe would be 120 
days from the expected services (not to exceed 540 days from the transaction processing 
date).
From this, its clear that Miss W doesnt have chargeback rights as her circumstances are in 
line with the above guidance. And S insolvency doesnt extend the original time limit. 
I understand Miss W and her friend contacted ABTA to see if it could help recover their 
payment for the flights before raising the chargeback. However, the rules dont allow for the 
time limit to be extended in these circumstances. The rules state: 
-If the issuer was required to attempt to obtain reimbursement from a bonding 
authority/insurance scheme, wait 60 calendar days from the date the claim was 
submitted to the bonding authority/insurance scheme before initiating a Dispute.
This would not apply to Miss W as she was not required to attempt to obtain reimbursement 
from a bonding authority or insurance scheme. I say this because the flights didnt appear to 
be ATOL protected and ABTA is not a bonding authority for flights only, so this part of the 
rule wouldnt apply.
I also acknowledge that Miss W has told us her friend was able to make a successful claim 
for the same situation. And her friend received a refund as a result of the claim shed made. 
Whilst I can understand Miss Ws frustration, I havent commented on this as each case is 
decided on its own individual merit and my role is to consider Miss Ws specific set of 
circumstances. 
Miss W also says the matter has impacted her as she is now in her overdraft. I would 
encourage her to ask Nationwide for assistance if she is experiencing financial difficulties. Id 
also like to take the opportunity to remind Nationwide of its obligations to treat Miss W with 
forbearance and due consideration should she decide to approach Nationwide for assistance 
in terms of her overdraft.  
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman