DRN-4202153
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) debited his credit card account 
taking him over the credit limit which caused a payment to be declined. Hes concerned 
about the impact on his credit record and hes also unhappy with the service Halifax 
provided. 
What happened
In September 2022 Mr W made a successful claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA) and Halifax refunded over £9,500 to his credit card account. The following 
February Mr W received a refund from the retailer in relation to the same claim so he told 
Halifax about this and asked how to pay back the refund it had provided. 
Halifax responded to say it had debited the relevant amount from Mr Ws credit card account 
which would appear on his next months statement. This was in line with Halifaxs normal 
process in this situation but the fairly large debit took Mr Ws account over the credit limit and 
he was unable to make a payment using his credit card on one occasion. Mr W made a 
payment towards the account to bring it back within the credit limit but he feels Halifax 
should have offered more options  such as allowing him to pay by instalments or increasing 
his credit limit. He wants Halifax to apologise, reverse any detrimental impact on his credit 
file and pay £500 compensation for the stress, anxiety and frustration caused.
Halifax said (in summary) its processes were followed correctly. Customers who receive a 
section 75 refund are told that the account can be re-debited and Mr W had the option to 
transfer the funds received from the retailer to cover the debit. It also looked at increasing 
the account credit limit but the relevant team declined. And Mr W wasnt reported to credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) for exceeding the credit limit.
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had made an error or acted unfairly in debiting Mr Ws 
account. She was satisfied this was in line with its normal process - and no adverse 
information was reported to Mr Ws credit record as a result of the debit  so she didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr W disagreed and said (in summary):-
the investigator reached her view based on whether Halifax followed its own internal 
processes in relation to the section 75 debit but the scope of her investigation should 
have addressed whether or not those processes were fit for purpose;
the refund from the retailer was in the form of a future credit, not cash, so he couldnt 
transfer this to his credit card;
he warned Halifax that debiting the whole amount in one go would cause problems 
and he was advised to ring customer services to discuss a payment plan but the 
person he spoke to on the number supplied (during four hours of calls over two days) 
seemed out of their depth and didnt offer any assistance;
Halifaxs processes around this arent fit for purpose  it could have made two or 
more smaller debits to keep his account within the limit and, if hed attempted the 
same transaction exceeding the credit limit, it would have been declined yet Halifax 
was able to do so;
Halifax may have told us no adverse information was reported to CRAs but he 
received a letter stating the opposite - so either the letter was a threat that wasnt 
carried out or Halifax is being misleading. 
The investigator didnt change her view. She explained that our service isnt a regulator and 
we cant interfere with Halifaxs internal processes. She was satisfied that Halifax had 
followed its usual process here and didnt act unfairly. She acknowledged wed expect a 
lender to work with a consumer to arrange a payment plan (for example) if a debit like this 
would cause financial difficulties but she thought that only be appropriate if there was no 
other option - as this sort of arrangement would likely impact adversely on a consumer's 
credit record. She accepted Mr W was sent a letter to say he'd exceeded his credit limit but 
shes satisfied that Halifax provided proof that no relevant adverse information was reported 
to his credit file. 
Mr W says Halifax failed to demonstrate joined up thinking and applied its processes to his 
case in a shambolic fashion - which is something our service should take into account. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review the matter  including whether Halifaxs processes were 
fit for purpose.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr W feels very strongly about what happened here. He says he tried to do 
the right thing by pursuing the retailer for some months, even though Halifax had already 
provided a refund under section 75 for his claim. And I understand he feels aggrieved that, 
when he told Halifax the retailer had agreed to compensate him for the same claim, this 
caused Halifax to debit his account taking it over the credit limit. I have no doubt that was 
frustrating and inconvenient for Mr W - who was unable to use his card for one payment and 
also had to transfer funds to bring the account back within the credit limit. 
I dont think Mr W disputes that Halifax was entitled to have the refund it provided in 
response to his section 75 claim returned when the retailer agreed to compensate him for 
the same claim. I think the crux of Mr Ws complaint is about the way Halifax dealt with 
taking back the refund. He feels the process used was unfit for purpose and hes 
disappointed with Halifaxs customer service. 
As the investigator has explained, it's not within the remit of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to tell any financial business how to operate on a day to day basis. Im not a 
regulator and I dont have the power to look into Halifaxs internal processes in the way I 
think Mr W would like me to. My role here is to decide if Halifax made a mistake or treated 
Mr W unfairly or acted unreasonably when dealing with his section 75 complaint.
Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that Halifax acted in line with its usual process 
when it debited the refund from Mr Ws credit card account. I appreciate Mr W feels Halifax 
had other options  which would have been better for him  but Im afraid Halifax wasnt 
obliged to process the debit any differently in the circumstances. As far as I can see Halifax 
did try to assist Mr W  when he had a payment declined due to being over the credit limit it 
looked at increasing his credit limit but he didnt meet the criteria unfortunately. Like the 
investigator, I think repaying the money by instalments would probably have involved some 
sort of payment arrangement and its unlikely Mr W would have wanted that - given the 
impact on his credit record. I realise it must have been frustrating and worrying for Mr W to receive a letter to say hed 
gone over the credit limit on his account. It looks as if this was the sort of standard letter a 
lender is obliged to send in this situation and I cant fairly find it was intended as a threat. Im 
satisfied that Halifax has supplied evidence which indicates no adverse information was 
reported to Mr Ws credit file as a result of the refund being debited. The investigator asked 
Mr W if he had any information to contradict this but he hasnt sent us anything further. And 
Im unable to reasonably conclude that Halifax has been misleading, in the circumstances.
I have sympathy for the situation Mr W found himself in here and I understand his frustration. 
For the reasons set out above however Im not persuaded that Halifax made a mistake and I 
dont think it treated Mr W unfairly or acted unreasonably in all the circumstances. So Im 
unable to reasonably require Halifax to pay compensation or do anything else. I realise this 
decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr W but hes not obliged to accept what 
Ive said  in which case it remains open to him to pursue this matter by any other means 
available.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman