DRN-2670218
The complaint
Mr J complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs decision to terminate his banking facilities. Hes 
unhappy that the bank has taken this decision, and with the reasons its given.
What happened
Mr J lives overseas. In August 2020, he received a letter from Lloyds Bank telling him that it 
would be closing his account as a result of the UKs decision to leave the European Union 
(EU). He complained to the bank, but it wasnt prepared to change its decision and closed 
Mr Js account in early December.
Mr J considers that Lloyds Bank is able to continue to provide banking services but has 
simply chosen not to do so. He notes that banks from other non-EU countries provide such 
services in his country and contends that discontinuing the service is a breach of contract. In 
support of his position, hes referenced account terms that he believes show the bank is 
unable to close an account where it leaves the customer without access to banking facilities.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that Lloyds Bank had acted unfairly towards Mr J. She 
was satisfied that the account agreement permitted the bank to terminate the account 
subject to giving specified notice, which it had done. She also noted that Mr J was able to 
apply to other banks that are continuing to provide UK-based banking services to his 
country.
Mr J remains unhappy, and so his complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that our investigator has already set out the background in her initial 
assessment, but I think its worth repeating here. The UK left the EU on 31 January 2020. 
Under the terms of the Withdrawal Agreement between the parties, an implementation 
period was put in place until 31 December 2020. Under those arrangements, FCA-
authorised businesses based in the UK were permitted to provide their services into the 
European Economic Area (EEA) using the passporting scheme.
That implementation period has ended and in the absence of a replacement agreement or a 
licence to operate, Lloyds no longer has permission to provide its banking services in many 
EEA countries  including the country where Mr J lives.
Like other UK banks, Lloyds can apply for a licence if it wishes to provide banking services 
to Mr Js country of residence. But this is something its entitled to decide for itself  Ive no 
power to require it to do so. While I appreciate Mr Js strength of feeling in this regard, 
Lloyds Bank can choose to discontinue such services. However, if it does decide to do this, it 
must ensure it treats its customers fairly.
Generally, with a current account in credit this will mean ensuring theres provision within the 
agreement for termination, and giving the customer an appropriate notice period to enable 
them to make alternative arrangements. In Mr Js case, I can see that the account 
agreement does entitle the bank to bring the agreement to an end by giving at least 60 days 
notice. Lloyds Bank notified Mr J in August 2020, and the account was closed in early 
December. Im satisfied the bank complied with its agreement with Mr J, and that it gave him 
plenty of additional time to make alternative arrangements.
Mr J has suggested that the account terms prohibit the bank from closing his account. 
However, the section he has referenced covers provision of a Basic Account, which isnt the 
type of account Mr J held with Lloyds Bank. Its relevance to the matter at hand has been put 
to Mr J; however, he hasnt elaborated on how he considers it applicable to his 
circumstances. Taking all of this into account, I can see no reason to find Lloyds Bank in 
breach of contract.
I do have sympathy with Mr J and other customers who have been similarly affected 
following this change in the UK/EU relationship. Hes a long-standing customer of Lloyds 
Bank and I can understand why he feels aggrieved. Its possible that, in the future, 
agreement might be reached that enables the wider position to be reviewed. But as things 
currently stand, Im afraid theres no basis on which I could properly uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman