DRN-4077423
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus 
(Cashplus) acted irresponsibly when it provided him with a credit card in October 2021. In 
addition, he has also complained that Cashplus failed to close his account or block his card 
when requested in January 2022 and that this led to him incurring more debt he couldnt 
afford.
Background
Mr N applied for a credit card with Cashplus in October 2021. He has told us that at this time 
he was already heavily indebted and spending beyond his means. He believes that 
Cashplus failed to run adequate checks on his finances at this time and says that if it had 
done it wouldnt have agreed to provide him with the credit card as it was clearly 
unaffordable. 
In January 2022 Mr N contacted Cashplus online and asked for his credit card to be either 
blocked or his account closed. He explained he had a compulsive gambling problem and 
was experiencing financial difficulty as a result. Unfortunately, Cashplus failed to action this 
request and the account remained open until June 2022, by which time Mr N had contacted 
this service with his complaint. 
Mr N has asked that Cashplus write off the outstanding balance on his account to resolve his 
complaint. 
Cashplus has said that correct checks were performed when Mr N applied for his car in 
October 2021 and that it was satisfied the £750 limit which was approved for him was 
affordable at that time. 
If does accept that it failed to respond to Mr Ns request in January 2022 and has offered to 
refund all of the interest charged to his account from that time until the account was 
eventually closed in June 2022. This amount came to a total of £31.72.
Mr N didnt accept Cashplus settlement offer and asked this service to investigate his 
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 March 2023 upholding Mr Ns complaint. I found that 
Cashplus failed to support Mr N adequately and had ignored the fact Mr N was an extremely 
vulnerable consumer who had proactively asked for help and not received it. I said that 
Cashplus should refund all interest and charges added to Mr Ns account from January 2022 
onwards including charges for exceeding the account limit and those linked to cash 
advances and cash interest. I also said Cashplus should pay Mr N £150 compensation for 
the upset and distress caused by its failures. 
I asked both parties to respond to that decision by 28 April 2023. 
Both Mr N and Cashplus have responded accepting my findings and I can now issue the 
final decision on the matter. 
For the sake of completeness, I have repeated my findings below. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has said that Cashplus acted irresponsibly when it provided him with the credit card in 
October 2021 and that it didnt carry out sufficient checks to make sure the lending was 
affordable. 
Cashplus has provided us with evidence to show that it did complete an income and 
expenditure check with Mr N at the time and also verified the information provided against 
his credit file. Those checks showed that Mr N was earning just over £21,000 a year and had 
a disposable income of approximately £490 each month. The limit on the card it provided 
was £750, which is a relatively low limit. 
Therefore, having reviewed the information provided by Cashplus from the time Mr N applied 
for his card, I dont think there was anything on the basic checks that wouldve alerted 
Cashplus into thinking Mr N would struggle to meet his monthly repayments, or that the 
lending was unaffordable. 
I appreciate more thorough checks of his bank statements may have shown the extent of his 
compulsive gambling at this time, but businesses arent required to ask for specific 
documents like bank statements when running credit checks. And the basic checks that 
were run didnt show any indication that Mr N was struggling to meet his existing credit 
obligations. So, I cant say Cashplus acted irresponsibly when it provided Mr N with the 
credit card in October 2021. And therefore, I cant uphold his complaint on that point. 
However, its not disputed by Cashplus that it failed to close Mr Ns account when he 
contacted it in January 2022 or that he explicitly told it that he was vulnerable and in need of 
additional support. 
This is a considerable failing on the part of Cashplus. It is very worrying to think that 
vulnerable consumers, especially those experiencing financial difficulties due to compulsive 
spending problems, having worked up the courage to ask for help, could then be ignored. 
Cashplus acknowledges it made an error here and offered to refund the interest added to Mr 
Ns account from January 2022 until the account closed in June 2022. But I dont think that 
goes far enough and so Im asking it to do more. 
However, Mr N will remain liable to repay the outstanding balance for the transactions he 
made on the card during January and June 2022. I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr N who was hoping the entire balance on the card would be written off. But I need to be 
fair to both parties and this amount, without the addition of any form of interest or charges, 
will be the total of what Mr N spent, and he does remain liable to repay that.
Putting things right
Cashplus should refund all the interest and charges added to Mr Ns account from January 
2022 until it was closed in June 2022. This includes all charges for exceeding the account 
limit, cash advances and cash interest as well as standard monthly interest charged. 
Cashplus should also pay Mr N £150 compensation for the upset and distress caused by its 
failure to offer him support when he asked for in in January 2022. I expect Cashplus to treat Mr N with consideration and forbearance and work out a fair 
repayment plan with him so he can repay the outstanding balance over a reasonable period 
of time. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Ns complaint against Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman