DRN-1880833
The complaint
Ms E has complained about a late payment mark which Virgin Money plc have added to her 
credit file. 
What happened
In April 2019, Ms E paid off the full outstanding balance on her credit card. Before that, she 
had paid the minimum payment each month by direct debit, so she cancelled the direct debit 
instruction on the same day. 
Two days later, Virgin Money attempted to collect the minimum payment shown on Ms Es 
March statement by direct debit. The direct debit failed and Virgin Money charged Ms E a 
failed payment fee of £9. This was added to her credit card. Virgin Money wrote to Ms E to 
tell her of the charge but Ms E thought it must be an administrative error because she had 
paid her card off in full, so she ignored the letter. Ms E was no longer using her credit card. 
Ms E received another letter from Virgin in June, telling her that she hadnt paid the minimum 
payment due on her April 2019 statement. She called Virgin Money to find out what had 
happened. Virgin Money said they required at least five working days notice to cancel a 
direct debit collection. They refunded the £9 to Ms E as a gesture of goodwill but said there 
would be a late payment mark on her credit file because she hadnt paid the £9 when it was 
due. They refused to remove the late payment mark, telling her they hadnt acted incorrectly 
regarding the credit file.
Ms E complained that this was extremely harsh and inappropriate. She said she has never 
been in arrears and had paid the credit card off in full. She also said she might want to take 
out a mortgage in the next few years so its important to her to have the late payment mark 
removed from her file.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Es complaint. He said the March statement was clear that 
Virgin Money would attempt to collect the minimum payment by direct debit even if Ms E 
made additional payments. And he said Virgin Money didnt have enough time to cancel the 
direct debit collection once they became aware Ms E had cancelled her direct debit 
instruction. Our investigator said he couldnt say the information supplied to the credit 
reference agencies was inaccurate so he didnt think Virgin Money needed to amend the 
information on the credit file.
Ms E wasnt happy with this outcome. She accepted that what Virgin Money had done was 
in line with the terms and conditions of her credit card but she didnt think they had acted 
fairly or in good faith. She asked for an ombudsman to review her case and so its come to 
me.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 April 2020. In that provisional decision I explained that I 
felt Virgin Money hadnt treated Ms E fairly. I said: 
It seems to me that the late payment mark has arisen because of two things: Ms E wasnt aware how much notice she needed to give when she cancelled her 
direct debit instruction; and
Ms E assumed that the letter telling of her of the failed payment charge was an 
administrative error.
I can see Ms Es March statement told her Virgin Money would attempt to collect her direct 
debit even if she made payments before the due date. So it makes sense to me that she 
cancelled it. Ms E says she looked for terms and conditions at the time and could only see 
the terms of the direct debit guarantee. She didnt realise that Virgin Money would need five 
working days notice to cancel the direct debit collection and I cant see that Virgin Money 
had told her this. So, provisionally, I dont think Virgin Money acted fairly in charging Ms E 
the failed payment charge.  
I can see Virgin Money have refunded the £9 to Ms E. Theyve said this is a goodwill 
gesture. But, as Ive said, I dont think Virgin Money acted fairly in making the £9 charge in 
the first place. So, provisionally, I think this refund was necessary to put things right for 
Ms E.
Its unfortunate that Ms E assumed the letter from Virgin Money was an administrative error 
and didnt contact them when she received it. But I can understand thats because she was 
confident she had cleared her credit card balance in full and didnt think there had been any 
issues. It also makes sense to me that she didnt look at her April or May credit card 
statements for the same reason  she thought she had cleared the balance.
Virgin Money didnt write to Ms E again until June  after they had notified the credit 
reference agencies that Ms E had missed a payment. Given that Ms E had never previously 
had arrears and the missed payment arose entirely from a charge Virgin Money applied, I 
think they could have done more to try to resolve the issue before they notified the credit 
reference agencies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision and therefore my final decision is 
unchanged from my provisional decision and Im upholding Ms Es complaint.
Putting things right
Im required to consider what is fair and reasonable given all of the circumstances. Im 
satisfied that the late payment mark is a disproportionate penalty for Ms Es actions given all 
of the circumstances. So my decision is that Virgin Money should remove the late payment 
mark from Ms Es account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Ms Es complaint and directing Virgin Money 
plc to remove the late payment mark from Ms Es account.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Clare King
Ombudsman