DRN-2898710
The complaint
Mr M says Emergency Cash Limited, trading as Wizzcash, irresponsibly lent to him. He says 
that he needed to borrow again as soon as he had repaid a loan. And this should have 
caused Wizzcash to look at his circumstances in more detail. He says that had it done this it 
wouldnt have continued to lend to him as he was struggling financially. 
What happened
This complaint is about four payday loans Wizzcash provided to Mr M between 
September 2016 to November 2017.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)date ended
1 18/07/2016 £200 3 30/09/2016
2 10/10/2016 £300 3 23/12/2016
3 06/01/2017 £300 3 31/03/2017
4 20/09/2017 £300 3 30/11/2017
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint. She thought that at loan 2 Wizzcash found out 
information about Mr M that shouldve led to it considering his circumstances in greater detail 
over loans 2 to 4. She said that if it had done this if wouldve seen that Mr M was having 
problems managing his money and not lent to him. 
Mr M agreed with the adjudicators opinion. Wizzcash didnt respond to what the adjudicator 
said. As no resolution has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Wizzcash needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt 
lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr M could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may 
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that 
the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
As our adjudicator said, at loan 2, Wizzcash found out that Mr M had more credit 
expenditure than he had declared on the loan application. This extra amount was just over 
£800 a month and it was significant when compared with his income of £2,600. Whilst 
Wizzcash did add this on to his other declared expenditure, I think this shouldve led 
Wizzcash to think that there was considerable uncertainty about the information it had about 
Mr M. 
So, I agree that Wizzcash should have made more detailed checks at this point to 
understand Mr Ms financial situation. And it shouldve verified what it found out where 
possible. I dont think it did this. I think it relied on the information Mr M told it and what it 
found out from the credit reference agency. 
Our adjudicator thought proportionate checks for loans 2 to 4 wouldve shown Mr M couldnt 
have repaid these loans in a sustainable manner. I have independently reviewed the 
evidence of Mr Ms income and expenditure and have come to the same conclusion.
This is because he had a significant amount of other credit. This was in the form of other 
short term and high cost loans. And he had other, related, financial problems. Such as 
extensive use of his overdraft and he was having difficulty paying his day to day bills. 
Wizzcash hasnt provided anything further for me to consider about this. So, I dont think I 
need to add to what the adjudicator said, and my reasoning above. I uphold Mr Ms 
complaint about loans 2 to 4 and Wizzcash should put things right. 
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Wizzcash should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr M from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Wizzcashs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Wizzcash shouldnt have given Mr M loans 2 to 4.
A) Wizzcash should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.B) Wizzcash should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Wizzcash should pay Mr M the total of A plus B.
D) Wizzcash should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ms credit file in 
relation to loans 2 to 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Wizzcash to deduct tax from this interest. Wizzcash 
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax Wizzcash has deducted, if he asks for 
one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Emergency Cash Limited should put things right as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman