DRN-3804456
The complaint
Mrs M complains that MBNA Limited rejected a claim relating to solar panels which she says 
were mis-sold to her by a supplier, which Ill call S. 
What happened
In 2015, Mrs H purchased a solar panel system for her home (the system). This was fitted 
to the (approximately) west-facing roof. She already had a solar panel system installed on 
the (approximately) south-facing roof and had been interested in adding more panels. 
Before S visited and sold her the additional solar panel system, Mrs M took out a loan with 
another lender (not MBNA) so that she would have the funds available for the purchase. The 
loan was repayable over 24 months. 
Mrs M paid £75 towards the purchase using her MBNA credit card, which gave her 
protection under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. This meant she could claim against 
MBNA for misrepresentation or breach of contract, in the same way she couldve claimed 
against the supplier, S. 
Mrs M says she was told that five panels would generate the same amount of electricity as 
the ones on the front of the house and that the system would pay for itself within two or three 
years. She says this was a misrepresentation. The system has generated less electricity and 
income than expected and will not pay for itself for many years, if ever. 
In 2021, Mrs M contacted us to see if she could make a claim, after being told by a claims 
management company that she may be able to. We directed her to send a claim to MBNA, 
which she then did. 
MBNA responded to reject the claim. MBNA did not think there was sufficient evidence that 
the system had been misrepresented to Mrs M or that there had been a breach of contract. 
Mrs M then made a complaint about MBNAs decision. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. They felt that there was insufficient evidence of a 
misrepresentation and did not uphold the complaint. 
Mrs M remained unhappy, so Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is only one document available from prior to the sale. This is an order form, which has 
limited information on it. It shows the cost of the system, that it will have five panels, and is 
expected to generate 1,087 kWh of electricity each year. 
So, I think it is likely that S told Mrs M that the system would generate 1,087 kWh per year. 
There is nothing to indicate Mrs M was given an illustration of the feed-in tariff (FIT) income 
or electricity savings she might expect to receive from the system. 
However, Mrs M did already have a separate solar panel system which had been in place for 
a number of years. So, I think shed have had a broad understanding of how such systems 
worked and the type and level of benefit they could provide. Her existing system had 
generated FIT payments of around £1,150 per year. 
Mrs M paid £5,300 for the system. So, for it to pay for itself within three years, she would 
need to receive FIT payments of £1,766 each year. This is far more than her existing system 
was providing. And, even if she was told the new panels were more powerful, I dont think it 
is likely that she wouldve been told the system could generate such returns, nor that she 
would reasonably have accepted that  given her existing knowledge. 
On Mrs Ms existing system, she was receiving in 2014 a rate of 48.07p per kWh of 
electricity generated, and an export rate of 3.39p per kWh on half of the electricity 
generated. If the new system had received this level of FIT payments it would provide 
£522.52 for electricity generated and £36.84 for export  a total of £559.36 per year. This is 
far less than would be required for the system to pay for itself within three years. 
Mrs M was unhappy with the location of the solar panels. She felt they would generate more 
electricity on the rear roof than the side roof. But, looking at the orientation of her house, the 
side roof is broadly west-facing, and the rear roof is broadly north-facing. So, I think the solar 
panels were installed in the most appropriate location, since the closer to south-facing the 
better. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that it is likely that S misrepresented the system in the way 
Mrs M has alleged. And Ive not seen any evidence to show there was a breach of contract. 
I appreciate that Mrs M heels very strongly that she was misled and is concerned about how 
long it will take for the system to pay for itself. But, having considered all the evidence in this 
case, including that Mrs M had already taken a loan to pay for additional solar panels before 
S sold her the system, I dont think there is sufficient evidence for me to uphold this 
complaint.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman