DRN-2925288
The complaint
Miss B complains that the loans she had from PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) 
were unaffordable.  
What happened
 Miss B had four loans from Mr Lender between January 2016 and May 2017 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 27 Jan 2016 £250 6m £88.79 15 Jul 2016 29 Feb 2016
2 24 May 2016 £500 6m £180.00 16 Nov 2016 9 Nov 2016
3 10 Nov 2016 £750 6m £335.00 16 May 2017 17 Mar 2017
4 15 May 2017 £500 6m £211.33 16 Nov 2017 9 Feb 2018
Miss B says she had multiple other short-term loans when Mr Lender approved the loans 
and if it had done better credit checks it would have seen this. She says the loans were 
unaffordable and she had to borrow money elsewhere to make the repayments.
Mr Lender says it asked Miss B about her income and expenditure and conducted a credit 
check. It says there were gaps between loans and the information indicated the loans were 
affordable. It says Miss B did not claim to be in financial difficulty and settled the first three 
loans early. Mr Lender adds that it offered a repayment plan when Miss B couldnt make the 
agreed repayments and also applied a discount that enabled her to repay the loan. However, 
as a gesture of goodwill, it did offer to remove all four loans from Miss Bs credit file.
Miss B did not accept this offer and she said Mr Lenders automated messages before and 
after repayment dates were bordering on harassment.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. He considered 
proportionate checks were likely to have shown Miss B was having problems managing her 
money by loan 3 and that this and loan 4 should not have been approved. Our adjudicator 
said Mr Lender should refund interest and fees charged on loans 3 and 4 (plus 8% statutory 
interest) and remove any negative information about them from Miss Bs credit file.
Mr Lender responded to say, in summary, that there were gaps in lending which indicated 
Miss B was not reliant on the loans, and checks showed she had enough disposable income 
for the repayments. It adds that its credit check showed Miss B only had one Advance 
Against Income so it would not have been proportionate to carry out further checks.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers net income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customers been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Loans 1 and 2As these were Miss Bs first loans with Mr Lender and the repayments were a maximum of 
12% of her income, Im satisfied the checks carried out by Mr Lender went far enough. There 
was nothing in the available information to indicate Miss B was in financial difficulties, so I 
cant conclude Mr Lender was wrong to have approved loans 1 or 2.
Loan 3
When Miss B applied for loan 3, I consider Mr Lender should have ensured it fully 
understood her financial circumstances before approving the application., I say that 
because:
This was Miss Bs third loan application and shed applied just one day after repaying 
loan 2;
The loan amount had increased again and the maximum scheduled repayment was 
almost double that of loan 2;
Miss B needed to commit over 22% of her income to the first repayment;
Miss Bs declared disposable income had decreased as she was now declaring 
housing costs which had not previously been the case.
Ive looked into what Mr Lender is likely to have found had it carried out better checks for 
loan 3 and I can see from Miss Bs credit file that at that time:
She had monthly mortgage payments of £239;
She needed to make credit payments of at least £500 on three loans, all of which had 
been taken out earlier in 2016;
She had a further three outstanding short-term loans;
Miss B had two accounts with a debt collection agency;
There were four open credit card accounts.
So, Im satisfied Miss B had significantly understated her credit commitments, that her credit 
file shows she was struggling to manage her money, and that the additional repayments for 
loan 3 were unaffordable to her. Therefore, I find Mr Lender was irresponsible to have 
approved Miss Bs application for loan 3.
Loan 4
I acknowledge there was a two-month gap before Miss B applied for loan 4, and that the 
loan amount decreased, but again I dont consider Mr Lenders checks went far enough:
I dont consider two months is a long enough break for Mr Lender to have considered 
loan 4 as part of a new loan chain;
It had been over 15 months since Miss Bs first loan from Mr Lender;
Miss B had shown signs she was struggling to repay loan 3 and she was on a 
repayment plan from January 2017;
Miss Bs declared disposable income had decreased further.In fact, Miss Bs financial situation had worsened since loan 3, and shed increased her 
borrowing substantially in March 2017 (from which loan 3 had been settled). This meant her 
monthly credit commitments were well over £900, plus another three short-term loans, as 
well as the ongoing debt collection agency and credit card accounts.
Indeed, Miss Bs outgoings exceeded her declared income by this stage and so I also find 
loan 4 was unaffordable to her.
I accept that Mr Lender says its credit check did not show that degree of short-term lending 
and I can see that the results show Miss B had just one loan in the Advance Against 
Income category. However, the credit check does show that Miss B had taken out other 
unsecured loans in the previous two years, and short-term loans can be categorised 
differently depending on the lender.
I also acknowledge Mr Lender has withdrawn its offer to remove all loans from Miss Bs 
credit file.
So, in summary, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint about loans 3 and 4. I acknowledge 
Miss B also says she felt harassed by Mr Lenders constant reminders, but I dont consider 
its unreasonable for a lender to pursue its debt in this way and I can see Mr Lender 
responded positively when it became aware of Miss Bs financial difficulties.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr 
Lender) should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss B towards interest, fees 
and charges on loans 3 and 4;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss B which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss B originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. Pay Miss B the total of A plus B;
D.Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file for loans 3 and 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman