DRN-3057766
The complaint
Mr C complains about the lost investment opportunity he said he would have had if the 
transfer of his self invested personal pension (SIPP) hadnt been delayed by Phoenix 
Services Limited (Phoenix).  He wants any losses suffered as a result of the delay in 
completing the transfer to be refunded with interest added.
What happened
Mr C held a SIPP with Phoenix which he wanted to transfer to a new provider. An application 
to transfer was made by Mr Cs adviser on 24 February 2020 but the funds werent received 
by the new provider, in cash, until 23 March 2020. Mr C feels the transfer should have taken 
place a week earlier. 
A residual sum of £220, which represented the refund of an erroneous drawdown fee, was 
then transferred to the new SIPP on 1 April 2020. Following the transfer Mr Cs adviser then 
invested the cash funds in three separate tranches, the first two of which were for £110,000 
each  which were received by the SIPP provider on 17 and 29 April, with the final tranche in 
May 2020. The adviser said this was in line with Mr Cs instructions because he was 
concerned with uncertainty in the market at that time due to the global pandemic.
In July 2020 Mr Cs adviser spoke with Phoenix and it was confirmed that there was a 
residual balance of £52.54 which hadnt been transferred to the new plan. 
In August 2020 Mr Cs adviser made a complaint on his behalf about the delay in 
transferring. It said that the requirements to transfer the cash had been met by 
6 March 2020, but it took 20 days to complete instead of an average time of 7 days for such 
transfers. It thought the funds should have been transferred and available for investment by 
17 March 2020 and consequently Mr C had suffered a loss of £8,824 when comparing the 
unit prices of the funds on the two dates involved.  
It also said that, given the residual outstanding balance of around £52, the transfer still 
hadnt completed in full. It also asked Phoenix to refund an annual SIPP fee of £485 that had 
been deducted from the plan on 10 March 2020, which it thought shouldnt have been taken. 
And it wanted around £250 to be paid to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience the matter 
had caused him.
 
On 28 August 2020 Phoenix confirmed that it had paid an additional £83.07 to the new 
provider following remedial work on Mr Cs account. 
In September 2020 Phoenix responded to Mr Cs complaint. It said it was satisfied that it 
completed the transfer within the prevailing timescale, which it said began when the final 
disinvestment of the assets was completed. But it accepted that it could have taken some 
actions which would have meant the transfer might have completed a couple of days earlier. 
It didnt think this was a delay as such, but offered Mr C £200 for any distress and 
inconvenience that might have caused.
It also confirmed that it had paid the residual interest which had accrued in the account 
following the transfer. 
Mr C wasnt happy with that outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He said the complaint shouldnt be upheld because, 
although Phoenix should have carried out the transfer earlier, Mr C hadnt invested the 
proceeds until around four weeks after the transfer completed. Therefore, he didnt believe 
Mr C would have invested any sooner if the transfer had completed earlier  so he didnt 
think Mr C had suffered a financial loss or had lost an investment opportunity. He confirmed 
that he was satisfied with the way Phoenix had dealt with any outstanding fees and charges 
and thought the offer of £200 compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Phoenix disputed the dates the investigator said the money should have been transferred 
by. It thought that was an unreasonable expectation and explained that it had no control or 
sight of the platform that Mr Cs investments were held on. Therefore, when it first picked up 
the transfer request on 6 March 2020 it asked Mr Cs adviser to ensure all the assets were 
sold. It said that the usual process thereafter is that a five working day period is needed to 
sell the assets and make them available for payment  so it made a note to revisit the 
transfer at the end of that five day period. It said that when it subsequently revisited the 
transfer it progressed it in line with its normal service standards. It also confirmed that if 
Mr Cs adviser had made it aware of the earlier sale of funds it would have completed the 
transfer sooner. 
Mr Cs adviser confirmed that it thought Phoenix had completed the transfer outside of the 
average transfer times taken when using the electronic transfer system (Origo). It submitted 
evidence to show that the price of the funds it ultimately invested in was higher on 2 April 
(the first date available to invest following the transfer) than on 17 March 2020 (when it 
thought the transfer could have competed)  so it concluded Mr C had suffered a financial 
loss, which it calculated to be nearly £9,000.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view. He maintained that Phoenix could 
have completed the transfer earlier, but, when trying to measure if this delay might have 
caused Mr C a financial loss, he noted that investment into the SIPP hadnt begun until 
around four weeks after the date most of the funds were available for investment. So he 
thought it was unlikely Mr C would have invested earlier even if the funds had been 
available, and therefore he hadnt suffered a financial loss.
  
Mr C didnt agree and said there was no doubt that he would have invested the funds 
straight away after they were transferred. He asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman  so its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator. I know this outcome will disappoint Mr C 
and Ive seen and heard in his discussions with the investigator how strongly he feels about 
this matter. But I dont think Phoenix is responsible for any financial loss here  so Ill explain 
my reasons.
Was there a delay in completing the transfer?In a suitability report dated 24 February 2020 Mr Cs adviser set out its recommendation for 
him to transfer his pension benefits from Phoenix to another provider. Among the reasons 
given for the switch was given the noted and ongoing problems with Phoenix you no longer 
felt confident with them continuing as custodian of your pension funds. In addition the 
adviser said that, while it would normally advise the transfer to be completed in specie, such 
transactions were currently taking more than six months, so it recommended selling the 
pension assets and reinvesting. This was so Mr C didnt lose the ability to rebalance  which 
would have been suspended, along with the ability to trade, during an in specie transfer.
I note that the adviser requested the assets to be sold on 28 February 2020 as evidenced by 
a screenshot Ive seen which showed the value that would be encashed at that time as 
£664,918.40. This request was picked up Phoenix on 6 March 2020 when it asked Mr Cs 
adviser, If it is not in progress already, would you be able to instruct a full sell trade of the 
GIA currently held on Mr Cs policy. Once the sell trade has been completed we can arrange 
to have the cash transferred out.
 
Phoenix says it wasnt advised that the sale of the assets had been completed, so it set a 
task to revisit the transfer after around five working days  which would have been 
13 March 2020. I dont think those actions were unreasonable  after all Phoenix didnt have 
sight of the investments on what was a third party platform, so it was unable to progress the 
transfer without information from other parties. And it seems reasonable that Phoenix should 
revisit the transfer after the time period usually allowed for such cash sales to complete. 
But the funds werent sent by Phoenix until 20 March, arriving with the new provider by 
23 March 2020. And although Phoenix has confirmed it followed its usual process when it 
received the cash, I havent seen sufficient explanation for why that was the case. Its not 
clear to me why, if it revisited the transfer after five working days  and the money was 
available, that the funds couldnt have been sent to the new provider. 
Both Mr C and the investigator think the funds could have arrived by 16 or 17 March 2020. I 
agree that the transfer should have been made earlier as Im not persuaded by Phoenixs 
explanation for the delay. Indeed, I note that entries on Origo showed a transfer creation 
date of 28 February 2020 and a scheduled completion date of 11 March 2020. The reason 
given for the delay was a disinvestment delay, but this wouldnt explain why, if the assets 
had been sold by the adviser and the cash available soon after, there was a delay in 
disinvesting the assets.
But in any case, while its important for me to establish what did happen and what may have 
gone wrong, our objective is to put a consumer as close to the position they would be in now 
if there hadnt been any delays or errors regarding the transfer. So in order to do that I have 
to consider Mr Cs actions and whether he did suffer a financial loss because of any delays. 
Its only at that point that I can decide what, if anything, Phoenix needs to do to put things 
right. 
What happened with regards to the investment strategy?
Im satisfied his adviser sold Mr Cs pension assets to cash at the earliest opportunity, so I 
dont think Mr C suffered a financial loss through his assets remaining invested for longer 
than they should have been. The problem here is that Mr C believes the cash should have 
been transferred to the new provider sooner than it was, which would have given him the opportunity to invest his fund earlier  when the price of the funds he was going to invest in 
was lower and he would have received more investment for his money.
So Ive looked Mr Cs actions with regards to investing the funds, both at the point when the 
majority of his funds were available for investment on 23 March 2020, and also when his 
adviser believed the funds were all available for investment on 2 April 2020.  
Looking at the evidence Ive been provided with, I can see that the first investment of 
£110,000 was made on 17 April with further investment of the same amount on 
29 April 2020. Other investments were made in May 2020. The earliest investment, which 
was only for around one sixth of the total fund, was made two weeks after the 2 April 2020 
date but over three weeks from when nearly all the funds were first available. So we asked 
Mr Cs adviser what caused the delay. It explained that Mr C had been concerned about 
how investments markets would react to the Covid-19 pandemic and preferred to phase 
investment over a period of time. Subsequent email instructions were received from Mr C 
requesting the investment in our model portfolio.
So it was Mr C that took the decision not to invest all his funds when they became available, 
and it was he that provided regular instructions to his adviser on how much to invest and 
when. So I dont think it can be argued that Mr C was unaware of what was happening post 
transfer as he seemed to be in control of the reinvestment of his pension funds at this time.
This was understandable given the situation at the time. The effects of the global pandemic 
were becoming clear and the UK was only one week away from entering a total lockdown 
situation. The financial markets had been seriously affected and the situation was worsening 
daily. So Mr Cs actions were, in my opinion, entirely reasonable and logical given the 
circumstances. But I think his actions would have been the same had the funds been 
available to him a week earlier.
 
I know Mr C has said that he would have invested the funds straight away if theyd been 
available for investment a week earlier. But the evidence doesnt support that claim. Mr C 
waited until over three weeks after the majority of the funds were available until he decided 
to begin partial investments of the cash held in his SIPP. As Ive said this was completely 
understandable given the circumstances at the time, but its difficult to reach the conclusion 
he would have invested earlier based on the actions he actually took at the time. Its my view 
that earlier availability of the money wouldnt have changed Mr Cs actions and so I cant 
reasonably say any financial loss he may have suffered was caused by Phoenixs actions.
   
I have some sympathy for Mr Cs position here and I understand the claim he and his 
adviser have made. Theyve shown that, if its accepted that Phoenix delayed the transfer by 
around one week, then it must follow that Mr C would have had nearly £9,000 extra available 
for investment  so this is a financial loss hes suffered. But that doesnt take into account 
that Mr C ought to have invested the available cash shortly after, in my view, 23 March 2020 
 to demonstrate that he suffered a loss upon investing. 
By deferring investment for a further two to three weeks demonstrated that Mr C wouldnt 
have suffered that loss in any case, as he simply didnt invest to mitigate his position.  
   
The residual fees and offer of compensation
Mr C also complained with regards to some fees that were deducted erroneously from the 
SIPP and some which remained in the account at the time he brought his complaint. Ive 
considered the matters of fees carefully and Im satisfied theyve now been resolved fairly 
and reasonably. Mr C said a fee of £220 was taken from the SIPP in March 2020 which he thought shouldnt 
have been deducted. Phoenix has accepted this was a drawdown fee deducted in error as 
Mr C wasnt in drawdown at the time. Ive seen that this fee was refunded on 27 March 2020.
Mr C also referred to an annual SIPP fee of £485 which was deducted around the same 
time. Phoenix has explained that this was the annual fee that was due to be collected in 
November 2019  but as there was insufficient cash at the time this meant the fee was 
carried over and deducted when there was sufficient cash when the transfer was requested. 
Ive seen that the original fee wasnt deducted when it was due, so Im satisfied Phoenix has 
acted reasonably there. I also note that, following this explanation, Mr C made no further 
comment about the fee and hasnt continued to request its refund.
 
The other fees that remained in the account were as a result of interest or other payments 
that occurred after or during the transfer. Its not uncommon for small interest payments to 
accrue as a result of previous transactions on an account, so this doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me. I dont think it had a material effect on Mr Cs ability to be able to invest 
his funds or the overall value of his fund and its potential for investment growth. In any case I 
now understand that all such payments have been made to Mr Cs new plan. 
 
However, I can understand that the issue of fees  although now resolved  would have 
added to Mr Cs overall frustration and distress with the transfer. At a time when he believed 
that Phoenix had delayed the transfer of his plan, to think that unwarranted charges would 
also have been taken from his plan would have caused him some degree of concern. I note 
that Phoenix offered Mr C £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the transfer. 
Looking at all the circumstances here I think thats a fair offer and within the range of what Id 
expect to see in a situation such as this.
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
I shall leave it to Mr C to claim the £200 that Phoenix offered if it hasnt already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman