DRN-4064103
The complaint
C says Cumberland Building Society agreed to repay the early repayment charges it would 
incur on redeeming a mortgage. C complains Cumberland Building Societys actions 
stopped it from recovering those charges. 
C is represented by its director. Ill refer to him as Mr O.
What happened
C owned a property, Property A. Mr O wanted to take out a new commercial mortgage over 
Property A on Cs behalf with Cumberland Building Society (CBS). It was possible Property 
A might be sold in the near future. Before going ahead with the mortgage Mr O discussed 
with CBS the possibility of porting any mortgage interest rate products and avoiding early 
repayment charges (ERCs) later on.
In June 2019 CBS told Mr O the terms of the mortgage over Property A didnt allow for 
porting. But it said it would support C with porting and avoiding any ERCs. When Mr O asked 
for CBS to commit to that, it said it would allow the mortgage products to be ported and the 
ERCs to be waived, subject to C taking new borrowing with CBS, for the same or greater 
amount, at the same time as it redeemed the existing mortgage. 
In December 2019 C went ahead with the mortgage over Property A. The mortgage was in 
two parts, which Ill refer to as Part 1 and Part 2. Each part was for a different amount and 
was subject to different repayment terms, fixed interest rates and ERCs. 
In February 2020 Mr Os contact at CBS said he would support an application for a loan on a 
new property, Property B, which would benefit from the same fixed interest rate product as 
Part 1 of the mortgage over Property A. The application didnt go ahead.
In July 2020 C redeemed the mortgage over Property A and incurred ERCs of around 
£42,000.
In October 2020 CBS considered an application from C to buy another, cheaper property, 
Property C. Mr Os contact at CBS said he would support a proposal to transfer the 
unexpired interest rate product on Part 1 of the mortgage over Property A and refund part of 
the ERCs, subject to the loan being approved and completing within six months of the 
mortgage over Property A being redeemed. C withdrew from buying Property C and the 
application didnt go ahead. 
In mid-December 2020 Mr O approached CBS again about a loan to purchase Property B. 
Negotiations had restarted in November 2020, Cs solicitors had carried out work and C was 
in a position to go ahead. Mr O said he understood an ERC refund usually took place within 
six months of a mortgage being redeemed. He asked if that period could be extended. CBS 
said any new loan application would need to complete within six months of the sale of 
Property A. And it didnt think that would be possible in the current circumstances. The 
application didnt go ahead.
Mr O complained on behalf of C about the actions of CBS. He said it had committed to 
porting the mortgage over Property A with the ERCs being refunded. C had relied on CBSs 
assurance about that in deciding to take the mortgage over Property A. It was unreasonable 
for CBS to refuse to extend the six-month deadline for completing a porting application given 
the difficulties the coronavirus pandemic had brought, and the level of work CBS had in 
processing mortgage applications before the related stamp duty holiday came to an end the 
following March. And CBS had refused to co-operate with getting the application through in 
the six weeks remaining of the six-month deadline.
CBS didnt uphold the complaint. It said C had no contractual right to port the mortgage 
products. It hadnt guaranteed porting or repaying the ERCs. And C hadnt gone ahead with 
an application in any event.
Since Mr O didnt agree, he brought Cs complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
investigator didnt think CBS had acted unreasonably. She said, in summary, there was no 
contractual obligation for CBS to agree to port Cs mortgage or any part of it. Although CBS 
considered requests C made to transfer its mortgage to new properties it was hoping to buy, 
it didnt give any guarantee they would be agreed. C didnt go ahead with an application for 
borrowing in any event. So, there was no basis on which to ask CBS to repay the ERCs.
Since Mr O didnt agree, Cs complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to the parties for the information theyve provided. I wont mention everything 
theyve said here. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
the service we provide. Ill focus on what I consider key to coming to my decision.
I appreciate Mr Os strength of feeling about Cs complaint. I understand hed carried out 
work and incurred expense in getting to the stage where C could buy Property B in 
December 2020. However, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator for broadly 
the same reasons, as Ill explain.
Mr O was clearly aware that under the terms of the mortgage C planned to take out with 
CBS, C would be subject to significant ERCs if the loan was repaid early. His exchanges 
with CBS in mid-2019 show he understood the mortgage wouldnt allow porting. And he 
sought a commitment from CBS to allow porting and waiver of the ERCs despite the 
mortgage terms. 
Im not persuaded C wouldnt have gone ahead with the borrowing in December 2019 
without CBSs agreement on porting. Mr O was managing a property portfolio and in the 
process of restructuring its finances. And he later asked CBS to allow repayment of the 
ERCs if he went ahead with porting within six months. That wasnt part of what CBS had 
agreed, as Ill explain. His request showed an understanding of terms relating to ERCs that 
are sometimes found in mortgage agreements. Hes told us C had exchanged contracts to 
buy Property B in December 2020 without CBSs agreement to porting the mortgage then, 
which suggests he was taking commercial decisions. I understand C had a buyer lined up for 
Property A but wasnt able to sell before refinancing existing borrowing in December 2019. I 
think the decision to take the mortgage in December 2019 was a commercial one and that C 
would have gone ahead whether or not CBS had provided the commitment Mr O was asking 
for.The commitment CBS gave was limited in any event. The mortgage interest rate products 
could only be ported and the ERCs waived if C took new borrowing with CBS, for the same 
or greater amount, at the same time as it redeemed the existing mortgage. Im satisfied Mr O 
understood that. 
CBS has said, and I agree, that the plan to buy Property B in February 2020 didnt amount to 
porting the mortgage product on Property A in line with what CBS had agreed. The 
transaction wasnt happening at the same time as the mortgage on Property A was being 
redeemed. And the amount of borrowing C was asking for wasnt the same or greater than 
the mortgage on Property A had been. CBS were looking at lending the same amount on the 
same terms as Part 1 of the Property A mortgage only. It didnt proceed at the time in any 
event. 
CBS did agree C could port part of a Property A mortgage product to a mortgage on 
Property C and that it would refund part of the ERCs if the application was accepted. But C 
withdrew from the deal and the application didnt go ahead.
CBS had made it a requirement of lending on Property C that the transaction complete within 
six months of the mortgage on Property A being redeemed. So, I can understand why Mr O 
thought it was reasonable to request the same terms should apply when he went back to 
CBS about progressing the purchase of Property B in mid-December 2020. 
I appreciate the effort Mr O had continued to put into trying to progress the purchase of 
Property B despite the difficulties brought about by the coronavirus pandemic. Hes told us 
searches and surveys had been done. I note Mr Os point that all the work that had been 
carried out meant there was little for CBS to do to complete the mortgage before the          
six-month period ran out. Even if thats right, I dont think CBS acted unreasonably in 
December 2020.
It wasnt part of CBSs original agreement that porting could take place within six months of 
the Property A mortgage being redeemed. That was a further concession CBS had allowed 
in relation to Property C. It reasonably agreed to that again in December. But it wasnt 
unreasonable that it didnt agree to extend the time further. There was no allowance for 
porting in the mortgage contract, CBS had agreed to porting on limited terms and it had 
already allowed C more time than it had originally agreed to. I think CBS had acted fairly in 
relation to C as an existing customer. And, as Mr O has explained, it had undertaken a lot of 
work with him to try and facilitate the transactions C was involved in. 
CBS says C didnt make the application in any event. Mr O says he didnt go ahead because 
of the refusal of his CBS contact to cooperate. And without his help, Cs application wouldnt 
have been considered by CBSs board as required. 
Ive considered the email exchanges Mr Os referred us to. But Im not persuaded CBS 
refused to cooperate with Mr O or that it deliberately avoided repaying the ERCs as Mr O 
believes. It had already offered to repay part of the ERCs when C was planning to buy 
Property C at less than the amount of the Property A mortgage, which suggests it was willing 
to help. And CBS explained it was busy trying to process mortgage applications before the 
pandemic related stamp duty holiday came to an end the following March, so didnt think it 
would be realistic to complete in time. 
In common with other lenders, CBS was under pressure to help customers during the 
pandemic, working in difficult conditions, often remotely and differently, and having to 
manage a higher volume of work due to the stamp duty holiday. We wouldnt ordinarily think 
it was fair to prioritise one customer over another without good reason, such as a 
vulnerability. Even if it was reasonable to say CBS should have prioritised C as an existing customer over 
new customers, Im not persuaded CBS would have repaid the ERCs. If C was looking to 
borrow the same amount against Property B as it had wanted earlier in the year, the terms 
on which CBS had agreed to port and repay the ERCs wouldnt have been met, as Ive 
explained. Even if they had been met, theres no guarantee CBS would have agreed to lend. 
An application required board approval as Mr Os explained. Its too speculative to say it 
would have been approved or that it would have completed within the six-month window.  
Bearing everything in mind I dont think CBS acted in breach of any agreement with C or 
unreasonably. And, whilst I understand Mr O will be disappointed, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont uphold Cs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman