DRN-1904785
 
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt give her a credit card offer despite telling her 
on the telephone that she had been approved for the offer. Lloyds offered to put things right 
but Miss E doesnt think its reasonable. Miss E wants Lloyds to give her the original offer 
terms or pay compensation to reflect the extra interest she will have to pay.
What happened
Miss E telephoned Lloyds on 10 December 2019 to discuss a credit card offer. She 
explained that she had tried to complete an application form online for the credit card offer, 
but there was a problem so she wanted to arrange it over the telephone. Lloyds took details 
from Miss E and then told her that she was eligible for the Platinum Master Card and the 
documents would follow in the post. The terms of the offer included a limit of £5,900, 0% 
interest for 20 months on balance transfers and 0% interest on purchases for 20 months. 
On 27 December, Miss E telephoned Lloyds as she hadnt received the documents. Miss E 
was told that there was no application on file and then told the forms hadnt been submitted. 
The member of staff Miss E spoke to said he would check their system and would telephone 
her back. 
Lloyds then telephoned Miss E later in the day and explained that she had received incorrect 
information in the first telephone call. They explained that the offer she was eligible for was 
the Classic Master Card, they explained this offer was for a limit of £5,900 but it was 0% 
interest for 16 months on balance transfers and 0% interest for six months on purchases. 
They explained that the details and offer she received during the first call was for the 
Platinum Master Card which she wasnt eligible for. They explained that they couldnt offer 
Miss E the terms which were incorrectly given to her in the first call. They offered Miss E the 
option of cancelling her application and agreed to remove any credit search from her credit 
file. Alternatively, she was advised she could progress the application for the Classic Master 
Card. Miss E decided to take out the Classic Master Card. 
Lloyds initially offered £50 compensation which Miss E didnt feel was enough. Lloyds then 
increased the offer of compensation to £75. Miss E didnt agree and asked for the matter to 
be treated as a complaint because she wasnt happy that she now only had six months at 
0% for purchases, which is 14 months less than what she was originally told.  
Lloyds then wrote to Miss E on 27 December to respond to her complaints. They upheld her 
complaint and agreed she had been given incorrect information. To put things right, they 
reiterated their offer of £75 compensation and the cost of Miss Es telephone calls if she had 
been charged. Miss E remained unhappy so brought her complaint to us.
    
Our investigator looked into things for Miss E and agreed that she had been given incorrect 
information. Our investigator felt that Lloyds had done everything they could to put things 
right and the offer was fair. 
Miss E disagreed so the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. 
The information shows there was an error by Lloyds, this isnt being disputed by them.    
Miss E was told that she had been approved for a Platinum Master Card and to expect the 
documents by post. It came to light later that she wasnt eligible for this and she was then 
offered, and accepted, the terms relating to a Classic Master Card because that is what she 
was eligible for at the time she had her original telephone discussion with Lloyds. 
Lloyds have offered compensation which Miss E feels isnt reasonable. What Im asked to 
consider is whether the offer is reasonable in all the circumstances. 
When considering what a business should do to put things right, its important to look at what 
position a customer would have been in had the error not occurred. In this case, the error 
was the incorrect information given to Miss E, so had she been given the correct information 
during the first telephone call then Miss E would have been offered the Classic Master Card. 
I think she would have taken this at the time because she did, when later offered this as an 
option, agree to go ahead with the Classic Master Card. I am of the view that Lloyds have 
returned Miss E to the position she would have been in had the error not occurred. 
Miss E has asked for Lloyds to honour the original offer and give her the Platinum Master 
Card together with the benefits. Or they should compensate her for £2,500. Lloyds have said 
they cant honour the original offer as she didnt ever qualify for the Platinum Master Card. I 
agree this wouldnt be a fair remedy here as this isnt a case of lost opportunity or a direct 
loss arising out of the error, its something which Miss E wasnt eligible for. Lloyds are entitled 
to decide who they lend money to and under what terms and, while its unfortunate a mistake 
was made, it doesnt mean they should have to change their lending criteria. 
In relation to the £2,500, which Miss E says is for the interest she would be due to pay back 
in the 14 months that arent 0%, I dont feel this is reasonable to award. This isnt a financial 
loss which Miss E has been left with. The error happened before Miss E had access to the 
credit so no purchases had been made at that point which would have been impacted by the 
shorter period which was subject to 0% interest.   
I have listened to the call recordings from the conversations on 10 and 27 December. The 
conversation on 10 December left Miss E in no doubt that she would be getting the Platinum 
Master Card and the benefits which come with it. Miss E has told us that she then started 
making plans with her family about how to spend the money given that there was a period of 
20 months to pay the money back without interest. 
I do believe that Miss E was then shocked and disappointed to find out that she wasnt going 
to be getting the benefits that come with the Platinum Master Card. I say this because, from 
the call recording, Miss E does sound frustrated that the 0% interest on purchases will now 
be 14 months less than what she was originally told. During the telephone call on 27 
December, the call handler passes the call to a complaint manager and its clear from this 
also that Miss E is upset at what has happened, and that remains the case even after they 
provide an explanation. 
The error here has led to shock, upset and disappointment for Miss E. I dont feel there has 
been any distress about the incorrect information over the two week period between the first and second telephone call because Miss E didnt know about it during this period. And, when 
Miss E did find out about it, Lloyds sorted the issue out with the offer on the same day. I do 
take the view that Miss E was worried about not receiving the documents following the 
telephone call on 10 December and that is what led her to telephone on 27 December. I 
have therefore taken account of this and the inconvenience of having to chase.   
Taking these points into account, I agree an award should reflect the shock, disappointment 
and inconvenience caused to Miss E. I have also taken account of the short period of time 
the problem continued and there being no evidence of a significant impact on Miss E. I feel 
that the offer put forward by Lloyds is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC have already made an offer to pay £75 compensation and the cost of   
Miss Es telephone calls, if she has been charged, to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay £75 and the cost of the two telephone 
calls to Miss E.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman