DRN-1374581
The complaint
Mr L complains that MYJAR Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr L was given four loans by MYJAR between August and October 2015. Loans one and 
three were single repayment payday loans, and loans two and four were due to be repaid by 
six monthly instalments. Mr L successfully repaid loans one to three but loan four was still 
outstanding at the time of the complaint. A summary of his borrowing from MYJAR is as 
follows: 
Loan Amount Date of loan Date repaid
1 £100 23.8.15 5.9.15
2 £1,175 7.9.15 7.10.15
3 £100 7.10.15 8.10.15
4 £1,500 25.10.15 Outstanding
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that MYJAR 
had been wrong to give the loans to Mr L. 
Whilst MYJAR accepted the adjudicators assessment, Mr L doesnt agree with it. He feels 
that MYJAR shouldve realised he was experiencing financial difficulties. And hes concerned 
that its application process isnt sufficiently thorough and that its designed to offer loans of 
increasing value. 
So, because the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, its been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish whether 
Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
MYJAR did some checks before it lent to Mr L. It asked him for details of his income, and his 
normal expenditure. Mr L told it that his income was £2,100 per month and declared his 
regular expenditure to be £800 per month (comprising rent and other expenditure, but with 
no other credit commitments).
I note that there is a discrepancy between the income figures detailed in MYJARs final 
response to Mr Ls complaint (where it mentions monthly income of £1,800) and its record of 
client information (which states declared income to be £2,100 per month). Ive clarified this 
with MYJAR and its now provided evidence that the former figure of £1,800 was actually 
submitted to it by Mr L in May 2016 (ie, after the loans were granted). Its shown that Mr Ls 
declared income at the time each of the loans was granted was £2,100, and that it was 
against this sum that its affordability checks were conducted.
MYJAR also checked Mr Ls credit file before each loan. Ive seen a summary of the results 
of those credit checks and they dont show anything that I think should have caused 
additional concerns to the lender.
Loans one to three
I share our adjudicators view that MYJAR wasnt wrong to give loans one to three to Mr L. 
Loan one was of modest value compared to what MYJAR knew about Mr Ls income and 
expenses. In addition, the loan was for a very short duration of two weeks and was, in fact, 
repaid a couple of days earlier than required. Mr L has expressed a concern that MYJAR offered small loans initially and then, once they 
had been repaid, then offered much bigger loans that were unmanageable for him. I do 
acknowledge that loan two was for a much larger amount than the first loan. However, it was 
to be repaid by six monthly instalments and I dont consider that these instalments, in 
themselves, represented a significant proportion of Mr Ls monthly income. As such, I dont 
believe that such an increase in value should immediately be considered as a cause for 
concern.
Loan two was repaid early by Mr L, after one month.
Loan three was, again, for the relatively modest amount of £100 and was borrowed for just 
one day.
At this stage in the lending relationship I think that the checks carried out by MYJAR were 
proportionate and I havent seen anything that I think ought to have concerned it. And I 
wouldnt reasonably expect MYJAR to have been concerned that Mr Ls repaying these 
loans, and then borrowing again quite soon afterwards, was necessarily an indication of any 
financial difficulties. So, in these circumstances, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ls complaint 
about loans one to three.
Loan four
Mr L applied for loan four just two weeks after loan three had been repaid. This was for a 
higher value again and required six monthly repayments of £484. 
Given all the circumstances of Mr Ls loans to date, I do think it wouldve been proportionate 
by this stage for MYJAR to gain a more detailed understanding of his financial position. In 
addition to obtaining details of his regular income and expenditure, Id have expected it to 
seek specific information about any other short term borrowings Mr L may have had. I cant 
see that it did this and, as such, I dont think its checks went far enough. 
However, having reviewed Mr Ls bank statements (and I should emphasise that I wouldnt 
have expected MYJAR to ask for sight of these in the circumstances of its loans) and 
MYJARs file records of the results of its credit checks, I cant see that Mr L had any other 
credit commitments  either regular or short term  at that time. It follows that, even if 
MYJAR had carried out the better checks that Id consider proportionate, I dont think it 
wouldve seen anything that would prompt it to decline his application for loan four.
Whilst recognising that the monthly repayments for loan four were higher again than those 
attached to his previous loans, I still dont think they represented a significant proportion of 
Mr Ls monthly income to the point where Id consider the loan to be unaffordable. 
I dont doubt that Mr L has been experiencing financial difficulties  but, in his circumstances, 
I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to ask him for the amount of 
information that wouldve been needed to show that the loan was unsustainable.
Mr L complains that the pattern of lending, where initial small loans were followed by a larger 
loans, shouldve indicated to MYJAR that he was in financial difficulty and so it shouldnt 
have lent further to him. I have considered this aspect carefully but, in the particular 
circumstances of Mr Ls loans, I am influenced by the facts that:
a) the repayment amounts, even for the highest value loan, dont appear to represent a 
significant proportion of Mr Ls declared disposable income, and;
b) Mr L didnt have any other loans outstanding at the time, and his credit checks didnt 
show anything of concern.As such, I dont think that the pattern of lending shouldve indicated to MYJAR that Mr L was 
experiencing financial difficulties.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but I hope my explanations help him understand why Ive 
reached my decision. 
I take this opportunity to remind MYJAR (or any third party if the debt is sold on) that it 
should discuss payment options with Mr L and treat him fairly and sympathetically if he 
needs further time to pay what he still owes.
And if Mr L would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Richard France
Ombudsman