DRN-2318331
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that HDI Global SE declined a fire claim under their commercial 
property insurance policy and cancelled their policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B made a claim to HDI after a fire badly damaged their take-away restaurant.
HDI appointed a loss adjuster and a forensic investigator. After receiving their findings, it 
declined the claim. It said Mr and Mrs B hadnt complied with three conditions in their policy. 
It thought the breach of these conditions had increased the risk of loss.
Before taking the policy out, Mr and Mrs B had told HDI no part of the roof of the property 
was flat. When the loss adjuster visited the property, he found it had a flat roof. HDI said it 
would only have offered a policy in these circumstances if Mr and Mrs B had confirmed the 
roof had been inspected and any defects repaired within the last two years. HDI says it told 
Mr and Mrs Bs broker that it would cancel the policy if Mr and Mrs B couldnt confirm theyd 
complied with this condition within 45 days. It later cancelled the policy and refunded part of 
the premium.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
didnt think HDI had acted unfairly in declining the claim or cancelling the policy.
As Mr and Mrs B didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs B should be treated as unsophisticated 
consumers, as opposed to experienced commercial business people. Ive no doubt that they 
were more like ordinary consumers. They had a small business and all the evidence points 
to the fact that they werent experienced with insurance. I think its fair to treat them as 
consumers. This means that I have to be satisfied that they were in breach of the relevant 
conditions and that the fire was a direct result of the failure to comply with one or more of the 
conditions.
The relevant policy conditions were:
k) all frying and cooking equipment (including hot plates) is attended, the operator to be in 
the immediate proximity and alongside at all times so that they retain close control when the 
heat source is in operation....
p) the frying range, cooking equipment and ducting systems are at least 300mm away from 
any combustible materials, unless suitably protected by fire resistant substance or material, 
this includes any part of the buildings structure including all partition, floors and ceilings.
q) Pans in the frying range or deep fat fryer contain an adequate amount of frying or cooking 
medium at all times.
Ill look at each of these in turn.
Mrs B said she was near the pan at all times, doing her morning preparation work. She said 
the pans took an hour in winter to reach the correct temperature, so to say that she had to 
stand and watch the pan the whole time was ridiculous. I can see from video footage that 
Mrs B was near the pan when it actually caught fire, although she had been going back and 
fore into the adjoining room. She said she was making batter at the time.
I think its fair to say that Mrs B wasnt keeping close control of the pan all of the time it was 
heating. If she had been, I think its likely she would have noticed the smoking from the pan 
before it caught fire and she might have been able to prevent it.
HDIs forensic investigator said that once the fire was established in the chip pan, it spread 
up and along the extraction ducting to ignite nearby combustible material. It said there was 
some wooden boxing for the ducting less than 300mm away. It said fire had spread from 
the ducting to nearby wood.
Mrs B said none of the casing around the ducting caught fire. Ive seen a photo of burnt 
wooden boxing that enclosed the ducting. Wood is a material that burns easily. I think its 
likely that having wood so close to the extraction ducting helped the fire to spread and 
caused damage that might have been avoidable.
Mrs B also said if she had known about the requirement to have a 300mm space between 
the frying equipment and combustible material, shed never have bought the policy. Mr and 
Mrs B bought their policy through a broker. If they think they were mis-sold it, they should 
complain to the broker about that.
 
Lastly Mrs B said that due to a mistake on her part shed emptied too much fat out of the pan 
before switching it on. That meant the temperature probe couldnt reach the fat. That in turn 
meant that the thermostat fitted to the pan couldnt control the temperature and stop the fat 
from getting dangerously hot. The forensic investigator thought this had most likely caused 
the fire in the first place.
Whilst I have every sympathy for the situation Mr and Mrs B find themselves in, I think it can 
fairly be said that they probably didnt comply with the policy conditions and particularly the 
one about having an adequate amount of fat in the pan. If they had done so, I think its likely 
the fire wouldnt have happened or the damage wouldnt have been so bad. So I think HDI 
acted fairly in declining the claim on the ground that Mr and Mrs B were in breach of the 
policy conditions.
With regard to the cancellation of the policy HDI had been told (either by Mr and Mrs B or 
by the broker on their behalf) that none of the roof over the property was flat. In fact the 
roof was completely flat. HDI would have insured this if it had known but cover would have 
been subject to a condition that the roof was regularly inspected and any necessary repairs 
carried out. I think it treated Mr and Mrs B fairly by giving them 45 days to comply with this 
condition before cancelling their policy and refunding a proportion of the premium.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman