DRN-2374555
The complaint
Mr L complains as a director of company A, a limited company, that Bank of Scotland Plc 
wont refund money lost from a business account, following a scam.
What happened
In May 2019 company A fell victim to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred as follows.
In May 2019 Mr L received an invoice from a client requesting a payment. On 17 May 2019, 
Mr L set up a new payee and made an online payment of £19,200 from company As client 
account to settle the invoice.
However, Mr L heard some days later, on 1 June 2019, that the payment had not reached its 
intended recipient. Unknown to Mr L at the time he made the payment, the email account 
had been compromised, and the payment details hed been sent were not for his client, but 
instead Mr L had made the payment to a fraudster. 
Mr L contacted Bank of Scotland on 1 June 2019 to report the scam. On the same day, Bank 
of Scotland contacted the bank that had received the funds. However, the receiving bank 
responded to say that no funds remained to be recovered.
Mr L complained to Bank of Scotland. In summary he said the payee name used was 
different to the account hed intended the money to go to and the bank had failed to check 
the payee details.  Bank of Scotland issued its final response on 30 July 2019. It said it was 
sorry to hear that company A had been victim to a scam. It said its systems would check that 
the account details were correct, but that its systems would not check the payee. It said it 
had tried to retrieve the funds, but no funds remained. Overall it didnt agree it had any 
liability. 
 
Mr L then brought the complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt think Bank of Scotland could have done anything to prevent 
the scam. She didnt consider the payment company A made was particularly out of the 
ordinary, or so unusual that it should have raised Bank of Scotlands suspicions. And she 
didnt think Bank of Scotland missed an opportunity to identify the payment could potentially 
have been in relation to a scam. 
Mr L didnt accept our investigators view. Mr L said at no time was he made aware that the 
bank didnt check payee details and had he known he would have behaved differently with 
any payments he made. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to company A, and I can understand entirely why Mr L 
feels so strongly that this money should be returned to them. But having thought very 
carefully about Bank of Scotlands actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing 
the transfer to leave company As account. I also dont think it could have done any more 
than it did to try and recover the money.  
So having considered everything, Im not going to uphold company As complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for them, but I dont think I can fairly say            
Bank of Scotland should reimburse them the £19,200 they have unfortunately lost to the 
fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Bank of Scotland should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Bank of Scotland acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with company A, when Mr L made a transfer to a fraudster and when he reported 
the fraud, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Mr L has accepted that he authorised the transfer of £19,200 himself. Because of this,    
Bank of Scotland had an obligation to follow his instruction. But there are some situations in 
which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
transfer - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Bank of Scotland 
shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.Having reviewed the activity on company As account statements, from which the payment 
was made, for the four month period leading up to the scam, I dont think the payment 
company A made to the fraudster was particularly unusual or out of character in comparison 
to the normal account activity. There are several other transactions, including faster 
payments, for amounts in excess of £10,000 (ranging up to over £30,000) and the payment 
didnt clear an unusual amount off of the account balance, which can often be the case with 
scams. Although the payment was to a new payee, I dont think this in itself would have been 
enough to have raised Bank of Scotlands suspicions. So I dont think a faster payment for 
£19,200 was particularly out of character or unusual in comparison to how the account was 
typically run. Overall, Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland acted unreasonably in not making 
enquiries about the payment before processing it. 
Ive thought about what Mr L has said about the receiving bank account being a different 
payee, to who Mr L had intended to pay. 
At the time the payment was made, the relevant regulations  the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) set out that payments are sent according to unique 
identifiers (typically the account number and sort code).
In particular, section 90 of the PSR 2017 states:
(1) Where a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the 
payment order is deemed to have been correctly executed by each payment service 
provider involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee specified 
by the unique identifier
The impact of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went to the account
number and sort code instructed by the payer. There was no regulatory requirement for 
Bank of Scotland to check the beneficiary account any further. So I cant fairly say that    
Bank of Scotland didnt follow Mr Ls instruction when it sent the payment to the account 
number and sort code provided, and I am not persuaded it should have done more to check 
the beneficiary name in the circumstances of this payment.
I understand Mr L has mentioned a voluntary code. I think what Mr L is referring to is The 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code). The CRM code was introduced on 28 May 
2019 and isnt retrospective. Therefore, as this scam occurred before the code came into 
effect, I cant take it into consideration when deciding this complaint. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Bank of Scotland did what it shouldve done once Mr L 
reported to it that company A had been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts 
Bank of Scotland made to recover the money, once Mr L reported the scam. In order for me 
to be able to fairly ask Bank of Scotland to refund the money to Mr L, I need to be satisfied 
that Bank of Scotland should have acted sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont 
think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it made any difference.
In this case I can see Bank of Scotland raised the claim against the receiving bank on the 
same day Mr L reported the scam to it. But the response from the receiving bank was that 
the money had already left the receiving account. So, Bank of Scotland wasnt able to 
recover the money Mr L had paid the fraudster, because it had already been removed from 
the recipients account. From what Ive seen, Im persuaded Bank of Scotland did what it 
should have and didnt miss an opportunity to recover any funds. 
Its very unfortunate company A has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated 
scam, and I understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Bank of Scotland should have done more to 
prevent them losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Bank of 
Scotland to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold company As complaint 
against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman