DRN-2474266
The complaint
J and Js complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to Barclays giving an 
erroneous notice of closure of J and Js business account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here in any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. In 
summary, Barclays gave J and J notice that it was intending to close its account. On behalf 
of J and J Mr T tried to find out the reason why, but Barclays were unable to tell him. Mr T 
also went into a branch but the staff there werent able to assist either. J and J then switched 
bank accounts as it could not operate without one. 
When Mr T complained on behalf of J and J, Barclays responded saying that it didnt think it 
had done anything wrong. However, later during this services investigation Barclays said 
that upon review it concluded that the notice of closure had been sent to J and J in error. In 
recognition of that Barclays offered J and J £200 in compensation.
Our investigator thought that Barclays offer was sufficient to put things right, but as J and J 
didnt agree the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A bank can decide who it wants to deal with as a customer. And if it decides to close a 
customers account, it doesnt have to give a reason. But it must follow the process it has set 
out in the accounts terms and conditions.
For this account, the terms and conditions say, at section 11, that Barclays can close an 
account upon giving two months notice, or less than that in certain circumstances. There is 
no requirement upon Barclays to give reasons to its customers for doing so. So, having 
considered Barclays actions, I think it followed the process set out in its terms and 
conditions as they gave J and J proper notice.
Whilst I can understand that it was upsetting for Mr T to have been told he was required to 
arrange alternative banking facilities elsewhere, Barclays were entitled to ask J and J to do 
that and without giving any reason. I accept that Barclays have said that was most likely a 
mistake, but it was still an action it was entitled to take. 
J and J feel that it has suffered reputational damage and been put to an administrative 
burden in explaining to its business contacts and clients that it was changing its banking 
facility. J and J also feel they no longer have the status with their current bank since leaving 
Barclays. But that would be J and Js position if Barclays had intended to require it to close 
its account. And whilst subjectively I understand Mr T believes there to have been 
reputational damage there is no evidence that this is so. In any event J and J could have 
approached another major bank of similar status to Barclays if it had wished. On stronger 
ground is Mr Ts complaint that J and J has been put to an administrative burden it ought not 
to have been. 
In this case Barclays have said it has been unable to locate the documentation which would 
show why it required J and J to close its account and so concludes it was an error. It may of 
course have been intentional, but I shall work on the basis it was not. Because of that error 
Barclays has accepted it made an error and offered J and J £200 in compensation. Whilst J 
and J doesnt think that is enough, and contend that £1,000 would be acceptable, I cant 
agree. 
When this service considers levels of compensation we take into account a variety of factors, 
including the trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that may have been caused. On 
occasions a complainant is able to provide documentary evidence of a direct loss caused, 
but that is not the case here. J and J, as a company cannot become distressed or upset, but 
it can be put to inconvenience and trouble, and I think it was. The awards we make can be 
categorised within the brackets of modest, substantial, severe or extreme, and examples of 
these can be found on our website. 
Looking at the evidence provided and considering the impact of Barclays error on J and J, it 
seems to me that in this case an award should fall within the bracket of moderate. So, Ive 
given this some further thought, and in the absence of any evidence showing a direct loss, I 
think what Barclays offered is fair representing a reasonable figure to reflect the general 
trouble and inconvenience J and J experienced. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay J and J £200 to settle this 
complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that it should pay J 
and J £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J and J to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman