DRN-4297306
The complaint
Miss F complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a private medical 
insurance claim for her son, Mr F. 
What happened
Ive only described what happened in brief as both parties are familiar with this complaint. 
Miss F had a private medical insurance policy. It was underwritten by Aviva and provided 
cover for her son, Mr F. When he became unwell in 2022 a claim was submitted, and after 
some discussion about fee limits Aviva authorised Mr F to see a consultant paediatric 
neurologist. 
That neurologist referred Mr F on to a hospital (which Ill call P) for an MRI under general 
anaesthetic plus blood and urine tests. However, P wasnt included on the specific key 
hospital list that formed part of Miss Fs policy. 
A different hospital (which Ill call C) was included on that list. It was the only hospital that 
had availability in the near future, could admit Mr F, and could provide the diagnostics 
needed. But Miss F didnt want to take Mr F there and detailed numerous concerns about it. 
She said, for example, that C wasnt a dedicated childrens hospital and shed been told the 
neurologist didnt normally refer children there. That shed had a previous bad experience 
with C and difficulty getting in touch with it. And that even when she had spoken to it was 
concerned by what shed heard in the background. 
Miss F asked Aviva to authorise cover for P instead, but Aviva declined and explained P 
wasnt included on the policy. It confirmed C was, and could admit Mr F and provide the 
diagnostics recommended. It explained how the policy would work if Miss F were to go 
ahead with P  namely that itd leave her with a shortfall in costs covered. It also said the 
policy was designed to cover the cost of healthcare, not the healthcare itself, and P would 
have only been available if the extended hospital list had been selected for the policy, which 
wasnt what Miss F had chosen when she bought it. 
Unhappy with what had happened Miss F approached this service. She told us shed 
decided not to renew the policy and said she now wanted a refund in premiums to put 
towards Mr Fs care. 
Our investigator thought Aviva had acted in line with the policy terms. They said the 
diagnostics recommended for Mr F were available at C, which was a hospital covered by the 
policy. And that even though thered been some poor customer service from C itself, the 
available evidence had indicated C would have been able to book Mr F in. Our investigator 
also said it wouldnt be fair to recommend a refund in premiums because Aviva had paid 
more in claims than Miss F had paid in premiums, meaning shed benefitted from the policy. 
Miss F disagreed and reiterated her concerns. She also said shed continued to have 
difficulty contacting C, so even if she had wanted to take Mr F there she wouldnt have been 
able to. She said the policy didnt reflect what a policyholder was actually able to get from it 
either, Aviva had lied and tried to cover up the fact there were no hospitals available, and itd 
gotten out of paying. 
Our investigators opinion remained the same, so as no agreement was reached the matter 
was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I want to highlight that Ill not be addressing every point or argument raised. 
I will instead focus on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. 
For the avoidance of doubt Ill not be considering any of Miss Fs concerns about the sale of 
her policy either. It wasnt sold by Aviva and as I understand matters her sale-related 
concerns have been shared with the relevant party. 
I was sorry to read about the circumstances surrounding this claim, but I will not be 
upholding this complaint. Aviva acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, and I 
dont think its position was unfair or unreasonable based on the information it had available. 
Let me explain:  
Aviva had a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly, and to not reject 
them unreasonably.
A key hospital list was chosen when Miss Fs policy was purchased, and C was included 
on it. At the time of Mr Fs claim the other hospitals on that list werent in a position to 
provide the recommended diagnostics for a number of different reasons. I understand 
Miss Fs frustration with that, but C had the ability to perform them and so despite there 
not being a wider choice in the specific requirements of this claim, cover was still 
available.
Miss F may have wanted to use hospital P, but Aviva wasnt required to authorise cover 
outside of the policy terms. P wasnt included in the key hospital list that had been 
selected and Aviva correctly explained how the policy would work should Miss F choose 
to go off-list:
If you have a hospital list, hospital charges for in-patient and day-patient treatment are 
covered in full if you have treatment at a hospital on your hospital list, a facility on one of 
our networks or an NHS pay-bed at an NHS hospital. 
If you receive treatment as an in-patient or day-patient in a hospital or facility that is not:
included on your hospital list, or
included on one of our networks, or
an NHS pay-bed at an NHS hospital
but is recognised by us, we will calculate the average hospital charges for equivalent 
treatment across all hospitals on your list and that average cost is the maximum we will 
pay. This could leave you with a shortfall that the policy does not cover. If the actual cost 
of the treatment is less than the average cost, we will pay the hospital costs in full. We 
will cover specialists fees up to the limits in our fee schedule.
There was evidence of delays with C making a booking for the diagnostics, but I dont think this demonstrated to Aviva that C was completely unable to book Mr F in and/or 
provide what had been recommended for him. As our investigator explained, the last 
email from C said itd be in a position to book Mr F in after the person responsible for 
doing so returned from annual leave.
Following our investigators opinion Miss F told us shed gone on to make a further two 
unsuccessful calls to C. As far as I understand matters Aviva was not aware of that at 
the time it considered Miss Fs complaint. But, and as I think Aviva rightly explained, its 
role was to cover the costs of private healthcare in accordance with the relevant terms 
and conditions, it was not responsible for the service provided by an individual medical 
facility. Outside of the delay issue Aviva wasnt provided with evidence to corroborate a 
number of Miss Fs wider concerns about Cs suitability, for example that C wouldnt 
have known how to deal with Mr Fs needs, and I dont think its position based on the 
evidence available to it was unreasonable. 
Without wanting to diminish any of the wider concerns Miss F had about the suitability of 
C, Aviva acted in line with the relevant policy terms, I dont think its position in this claim 
was unreasonable, and it is not on risk anymore because this policy is no longer in place.
When the policy was live, Aviva paid more in claims than Miss F paid in premiums. 
Benefit was therefore had from the it and itd be unfair of me to direct a refund of 
premiums as a result. However, even if I were to have found a refund fair, I would have 
directed Aviva to deduct any claims paid so no money would have actually been due to 
Miss F. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman