DRN-1504077
 
The complaint
Mr T complains about an international transfer repeatedly failing to reach the beneficiary 
abroad.  
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr T instructed HSBC UK to process a payment in USD to an account abroad. This 
payment was sent via another part of the bank group in the USA as the intermediary 
bank. When the payment didnt arrive with the beneficiary, HSBC UK reasonably 
tried to ascertain what had happened. The funds were returned because of what the 
intermediary bank did and not HSBC UK. 
HSBC UK also checked if a manual payment could be made but, although this had 
been done for Mr T in previous transactions, it couldnt be done here as HSBC UKs 
new system prevented this. That was no doubt disappointing for Mr T but we arent a 
regulator and cannot tell a bank how to run its business or require it to change its 
practices and procedures. 
The payment was attempted again but it was apparently returned due to another 
banks internal policy. But that isnt something I can hold HSBC UK responsible for. 
And I dont think I can reasonably require it to ask any other bank for a more detailed 
explanation, as Mr T would like.
Taking everything into account I dont think I can fairly conclude HSBC UK has done 
anything wrong. It attempted to make the payment and when it wasnt received it 
followed up matters in a fair and reasonable way. Mr T says the beneficiary bank has 
told him it has successfully received other transactions from the intermediary bank. 
That may be the case but the intermediary bank is a separate entity from HSBC UK. 
And HSBC UK isnt responsible for the actions of the intermediary bank even if it is 
part of the same global banking group. HSBC UK also cannot be held responsible for 
anything the beneficiary bank abroad mayve done. 
Even so, HSBC UK has recognised Mr T was caused distress and inconvenience by 
what happened and spent time trying to put things right. And it has paid him £500 
compensation for this. I think thats fair.
Overall, although I recognise Mr Ts frustration and strength of feeling, I think HSBC 
UK has acted fairly and I cant reasonably require it to do anything more or 
differently, including reimbursing him for a lost deposit on a property purchase as 
hed like.
 For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman