DRN-2810873
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited approved her for a credit account that was 
unaffordable for her at that time.  
What happened
In November 2015, Mrs B applied for a credit account with Vanquis. Her application was 
approved, and Vanquis issued Mrs B with a credit account with an initial credit limit of £500.
In July 2016, Vanquis assessed Mrs Bs account and increased her credit limit to £1,250. 
Three further credit limit increases followed, with the credit limit reaching £3,500 following 
the final credit limit increase in November 2017.
In August 2019, Mrs B raised a complaint with Vanquis on the basis that she felt that the 
credit account that she had been approved for in 2015, as well as the subsequent credit limit 
increases, had been unaffordable for her at those times.
Vanquis looked at Mrs Bs complaint, but they felt that they had undertaken checks into Mrs 
Bs financial circumstances at the time of the credit account application and the credit limit 
increases and that there had been nothing resulting from these checks that gave them cause 
to consider that the credit being offered might be unaffordable for Mrs B. So, they didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Vanquis response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that there had been nothing in the 
checks undertaken by Vanquis at the time of the credit account application that should have 
given Vanquis cause for concern. 
However, our investigator felt that had Vanquis undertaken reasonable and proportionate 
checks into Mrs Bs financial position at the time of the later credit increases, from July 2016 
onwards, that Vanquis would have found information that suggested that these credit limit 
increases werent affordable or suitable for Mrs B at those times. So, our investigator 
recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mrs Bs favour on that basis.
Vanquis didnt agree with the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide who it will offer credit to, and if so, on what terms. What this 
service would expect would be that the business undertakes reasonable and proportionate 
borrower focussed checks into any new credit being offered, such that the business can 
demonstrate that the new credit is affordable for that customer at that time.
Vanquis say that they did that here. They took detail of Mrs Bs income and expenditure at 
the time of the account application and they also conducted a review of Mrs Bs credit file. 
Vanquis also conducted further credit file reviews at the time of the credit limit increases, and 
also reviewed Mrs Bs management of the Vanquis credit account at those times to ensure 
that Mrs B wasnt having difficulty maintaining the account.
Im aware that Mrs B feels that Vanquis didnt take due regard of the historical activity on her 
credit file at the time that she applied for the credit account, including the fact that there was 
a default present on her credit file at that time. But while a default was present on her credit 
file, the date of default was some time prior to the credit account application, and Mrs Bs 
recent credit history at that time didnt present anything which I consider should have given 
Vanquis cause to doubt that the credit account, with the relatively low initial credit limit of 
£500, would be affordable for Mrs B.
So, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Vanquis to have approved Mrs Bs initial 
application for a credit account on the basis of the information they had available to them at 
that time, and to have issued Mrs B with a credit account with a £500 credit limit.
However, Im not convinced that it can be fairly or reasonably said that any of the 
subsequent credit limit increases can be considered as being affordable or suitable for Mrs B 
at the times that they were implemented. And I say this because of the usage of Mrs Bs 
Vanquis credit account, which demonstrated a high number of gambling transactions which I 
feel should have given Vanquis cause for concern, as well as the deteriorating wider 
financial position of Mrs B, as demonstrated by her credit file.
Its notable from the Vanquis credit account statements that the first three transactions on 
the account are all transactions to gambling firms, and that these transactions total £460 and 
therefore used up the majority of Mrs Bs initial £500 credit limit on the very first day of 
account usage by Mrs B. Furthermore, Vanquis charged Mrs B a total of £15 on the very 
basis that these were gambling transactions, which demonstrates that Vanquis were aware 
of the nature of these initial transactions.
Vanquis explained to this service that they wouldnt discriminate against an account holder 
on the basis of how they use their account. But Im not convinced that this argument can be 
considered reasonable when an account holders transactions highlight a potential gambling 
addiction. And its difficult to reconcile Vanquis statement here with the fact that they 
charged Mrs B precisely because of the fact she was making gambling transactions.
In circumstances such as this, it would be expected by this service that Vanquis would have 
recognised the potential damage that increasing Mrs Bs credit limit, and therefore potentially 
further facilitating Mrs Bs possible gambling addiction, could have caused. But I cant see 
that Vanquis did consider that here, even though they had charged Mrs B for gambling 
transactions a total of ten times between the account opening and the first credit limit 
increase in July 2016.
Its difficult then, not to conclude that the information readily available to Vanquis regarding 
Mrs Bs usage of the Vanquis credit account should have given Vanquis cause for concern 
such that they should have conducted a more thorough check into Mrs Bs financial position, 
including the possibility that Mrs B might have been struggling with a gambling addiction.
Similarly, its difficult not to conclude that had Vanquis undertaken such checks, they would 
have discovered that Mrs B was struggling financially at the time of the first credit limit 
increase, and had been spending disproportionately on gambling transactions such that it 
would have been irresponsible for Vanquis to have increased Mrs Bs credit limit given that 
there was a reasonable chance that Mrs B might have used the additional credit made 
available to her to make further gambling transactions and further increase her level of debt. Finally, its also evident from Mrs Bs credit file that, in the period between the credit account 
being approved in November 2015 and the first credit limit increase in July 2016, Mrs B 
applied for and used several payday loans. While the use of payday loans isnt of itself 
necessarily an indicator of financial difficulty, I do feel that in this instance, in consideration of 
the information already explained above, it should have provided a further indication to 
Vanquis that the credit limit increase it was considering might not be appropriate and that 
further, more detailed investigation, was necessary.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Vanquis were wanting here, but if follows from 
this that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mrs Bs favour on the basis that I feel that the 
credit limit increase in July 2016, and all later credit limit increases, shouldnt have been 
offered. I hope that Vanquis can understand, given everything that Ive have explained, why I 
have made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Vanquis must reimburse to Mrs Bs account all interest, fees, and charges applied to the 
account on the balance above the initial credit limit of £500 subsequent to the credit limit 
being increased for the first time in July 2016.
If these reimbursements result in a credit balance in Mrs Bs favour, this balance must be 
paid to Mrs B in addition with 8% simple interest calculated from the date that the interest, 
fees, or charges were applied to the account to the date of payment to Mrs B.
Vanquis must also remove all adverse information from Mrs Bs credit file relating to this 
account from the point of the first credit limit increase in July 2016 onwards.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Vanquis Bank Limited on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman