DRN-3811809
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain about how Ageas Insurance Limited dealt with a claim on their 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B and Mr B have a home insurance policy with Ageas. In February 2022 Mr B contacted 
Ageas to put in a claim for storm damage to their chimney. Ageas asked for a quote to repair 
the damage and when it was provided said it would need to assess the damage themselves 
to see if it was covered. 
Ageas then sent a surveyor to inspect the property and produce a report on the damage. 
When Ageas reviewed the report, it turned down the claim. Ageas said the damage to the 
chimney was due to the deterioration of the mortar due to wear and tear which was excluded 
under the policy. 
Mrs B and Mr B werent happy with Ageass decision and complained. They also said the 
surveyor had turned up and inspected their property without their permission and had 
dangerously climbed scaffolding, which was on their property, to assess the damage. 
Ageas reviewed the complaint and stood by the decision to decline the claim. However, 
Ageas accepted the surveyor hadnt taken the correct health and safety measures when 
assessing the property. Unhappy with Ageass response to the complaint, Mrs B and Mr B 
referred their complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found 
that Ageas had based the decision to decline the claim on the surveyors report, which she 
thought was fair and reasonable. She also acknowledged the surveyor hadnt taken the 
appropriate health and safety precautions but found this hadnt caused Mrs B or Mr B a loss. 
Mrs B and Mr B didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B and Mr Bs policy covers them for certain insured events, one of them is storm 
damage. The policy also excludes storm damage which is the result of wear, tear and 
deterioration.
When deciding whether an insurer acted fairly by declining a claim for storm damage, we 
consider three questions. Firstly, whether there is evidence there were storm conditions at 
the time the damage was caused. Next, whether the damage is consistent with storm 
damage and lastly whether the storm was the main reason for the damage. If were satisfied 
that the answer to all three questions is yes then we would say the insurer wasnt fair to 
decline the claim under storm cover. 
Here, the first two questions arent in dispute. Ageas is in agreement that there were storm 
conditions around the time Mrs B and Mr Bs chimney suffered damage. And the pot on the 
top of the chimney stack leaning the way it did, is consistent with damage caused by strong 
winds in a storm. The question in dispute is whether the storm was the main cause of the 
damage, so Ive considered whether Ageas has done enough to prove that the storm wasnt 
the main cause and acted fairly by applying the exclusion. 
Ageas sent a surveyor to inspect the chimney after the claim. In their report theyve 
commented on the ageing of the materials as being the cause of the damage. Theyve also 
provided photos that show significant gaps in the mortar in several areas around the top of 
the chimney stack. Based on this Im persuaded there were issues with the chimney before 
the storm. And as the problems identified are with the mortar that bonds the bricks and the 
pot on top of the chimney together, it seems this would make the chimney weaker and more 
susceptible to damage by external forces. So, Im persuaded that the proximate cause of the 
damage is the poor mortar bonds, rather than the storm. As the policy excludes storm 
damage which is the result of wear and tear and deterioration this means there is no cover 
under the policy
Mrs B and Mr B have provided their own report from a builder who had done some work on 
their neighbours property a couple of months before. In their report they said there had been 
no visible defects spotted to Mrs B and Mr Bs chimney. Ive considered this report as well, 
and when taking it into account Im more persuaded by Ageass report. I say this because 
the surveyor inspected the chimney up close and has included photos which support their 
comments. For that reason, Im not going to tell Ageas to do anymore in relation to the claim. 
Ive also considered Mrs B and Mr Bs comments about the surveyor and them not adhering 
to correct health and safety measures when assessing their property. I can see Ageas 
acknowledged this and explained they had let Mrs B and Mr B know the surveyor may 
assess their property when they werent there. However, Ageas has said they will provide 
feedback regarding the surveyor not adhering to the correct health and safety measures as 
its not what theyd expect. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances as 
this didnt impact Mrs B and Mr B in a way Id make an award for, so Im not going to tell 
Ageas to do anything more than it already has. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman