DRN-3893271
The complaint
Mr N has complained that his insurance broker, Hastings Insurance Services Limited 
(Hastings), renewed his motor insurance policy despite him asking it not to.
 
What happened
Mr N had taken out a motor insurance policy through Hastings which was about to renew on 
30 September 2022. Hastings wrote to Mr N around a month before to let him know the date 
it would renew and the new price. 
Mr N raised a complaint with Hastings on 24 September 2022 and said he didnt want the 
policy to auto renew or for any money to be taken out of his account and added that its 
renewal email did not enable him to cancel his policy. He also said his renewal quote was 
£536.01 compared to £411.27 the year before and that Hastings was trying to extort an 
unjustifiable extra £124.74 from him for no reason at all. He added that he had found a 
cheaper quote with Hastings via a price comparison website but was prevented from 
proceeding with it. He said this was Hastings dishonestly preventing him from purchasing a 
cheaper policy. He added that he had complained about Hastings practices before and was 
awarded compensation and that he wanted £500 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered.
The policy renewed on 30 September 2022. Mr N then complained to us. He said Hastings 
had been acting fraudulently and that despite him asking it not to, Hastings renewed the 
policy and took the payment from his account. He said this affected him mentally and 
financially and that he wanted £500 in compensation. 
Hastings responded to Mr Ns complaint on 19 October 2022 and said that it would arrange 
for the policy to be cancelled as of 30 September 2022 and issue a full premium refund 
within a few days. It said the policy auto renewed because, instead of asking for a 
cancellation of the auto renewal, Mr N logged a complaint which can take up to eight weeks 
to resolve. It said a lot of its policies auto renew so that consumers dont drive around 
uninsured unintentionally. It said in relation to the cheaper quote Mr N said he obtained 
online, this may have been based on different information to what Hastings had used to 
generate the renewal quote, and also that it could have been with a different insurer. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said Hastings documentation made it clear that the policy would auto renew. She said 
instead of following the cancellation process Mr N made a complaint, which can take up to 
eight weeks to resolve. 
Mr N didnt agree. He reiterated he had been prevented from taking out a cheaper policy 
online. Our Investigator asked Hastings for more information regarding this. Hastings said 
the cheaper quote may have been based on different information but in any event if the 
details were the same it would have matched the price had Mr N asked it to. It said it may 
prevent its customers from taking out new policies if they have existing ones with it but this is 
in order for them to call so it can match the details.
 
Our Investigator reconsidered the complaint but still didnt think it should be upheld. Mr N 
didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said when he got the other online 
quote a message saying something went wrong came up and he was asked to restart the 
quote not to call Hastings. He reiterated that his complaint was made before the policy auto 
renewed and that Hastings tactics amounted to fraudulent trading. He repeated that he 
wanted £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he suffered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold it.
 
Mr N has raised a number of points when bringing his complaint to us and to Hastings. I 
have considered them all but, as this service is an informal dispute resolution service, I wont 
be addressing all of these points individually in this decision. Instead, I will be looking at the 
ones I consider to be the most important.
Mr N had a policy with Hastings the year before this auto renewal. The documents sent to 
him at the time said that his policy would auto renew but if he wanted to opt out he could. 
From what I have seen, he didnt opt out at that time.
 
Hastings wrote to Mr N on 1 September 2022 to say that his policy would auto renew on 30 
September and that it would cost £536.01. The letter said that if Mr N didnt want to 
auto renew he could call Hastings on a particular number. The documents attached to the 
letter also said Mr N could choose not to auto renew by logging onto My Account or on 
Hastings application. I think Hastings made the process whereby Mr N could cancel the 
auto renewal clear in its documentation. As far as I am aware Mr N didnt get in touch with 
Hastings to cancel the auto renewal at that time either.
Hastings sent Mr N a further reminder on 13 September 2022. He responded to it on 24 
September 2022 by making a complaint- his email contained the words formal complaint in 
the title. In addition to the points he made which I set out in the previous section, he said he 
proceeded to buy another policy online which was still cheaper than Hastings renewal 
quote. He also said he forbade Hastings from renewing his policy on 30 September 2022 or 
from taking any money out of his account and demanded £500 in compensation.
Mr N said that the renewal letter didnt show how he could cancel the auto renewal but I 
dont agree. As I said the letters Hastings had sent him gave him various options on how the 
cancellation of the auto renewal could be carried out so I think Hastings did enough to make 
him aware. Also, as Mr N mentioned, he made complaints about Hastings processes in the 
past. One of those complaints was very similar to this one and was considered by another 
Ombudsman from this organisation in 2021. And in that decision the Ombudsman mentioned 
that Mr N had complained about Hastings renewal process prior to that complaint. I am 
therefore persuaded that Mr N was familiar with Hastings processes or what to look for 
when wanting to cancel an auto renewal.  
As I said above Hastings responded to Mr Ns complaint before the eight weeks (within 
about four weeks) it has to respond to complaints and agreed to cancel the policy from 30 
September 2022 and to issue a full refund without charging a cancellation fee. I think this is 
fair and reasonable. I appreciate that Mr N said his complaint was made before the policy 
renewed, but as he decided to proceed with a complaint instead of following the auto 
renewal cancellation process this took longer to resolve. I dont think this was due to any 
errors on Hastings part.Mr N also said he was fraudulently prevented from taking out a cheaper policy. He said he 
got error messages when he tried to purchase one. Hastings accepted that he may have 
been prevented from taking out another policy if he already had one through it. It also said 
that the quote has now expired and it is not possible to compare the information it was based 
on but if it was based on the same information it had used to generate Mr Ns quote, it would 
have honoured it. I think this is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mr N is frustrated he couldnt proceed with the online quote. And he said he 
wasnt asked to call Hastings so it could match the quote- as Hastings said he should have 
been- but was asked to restart the quote. I appreciate this may have been the case but at 
the same time when Mr N did get in touch with Hastings, before his auto renewal, he didnt 
ask it to match the cheaper quote. And he said hed already taken out another policy and 
didnt want his existing policy to auto renew. So I dont think Hastings was given the option to 
do the price match and I note it ultimately cancelled the policy as per Mr Ns request.
 
I appreciate that Mr N will be disappointed with my decision but for the reasons I have given 
this is not a complaint I am upholding. I think the action Hastings took in refunding Mr Ns 
premium in full and not charging a cancellation fee was sufficient in the circumstances and I 
dont think any further compensation is warranted. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman