DRN-3358682
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited (Hiscox) has unfairly 
treated them in relation to a subsidence claim on their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well established so Ive summarised events.
In 2010 Mr and Mrs S made a subsidence claim. This was investigated, works were 
completed in 2014, and a certificate of structural adequacy was provided. 
The cause of the damage was due to defective drainage dispersing water below 
foundations causing erosion to soils. Drains were repaired and following crack 
monitoring Hiscox said the property was completely stabilised. Some tree works were 
also carried out at this time following some back and forth with the local authority.
In 2016, Mr and Mrs S reported further issues. This included:
oVoiding beneath the foundations discovered by their own builders who said a 
section of underground drains hadnt been repaired previously. Hiscox said 
this appeared to be a legacy issue of the leaking drain from the first claim and 
responsible for cracking to the front right corner of the building. And it agreed 
to cover the cost of any additional necessary repairs.
oCracking to front rooms of the property. Hiscox attributed this to subsidence 
caused by vegetation in the front garden, including shrubs against the 
property and nearby trees.
Hiscox accepted a further claim for subsidence, and said it required a second excess 
as it said the causes of damage was separate across the two claims.
Our Investigator looked into what happened. He didnt uphold the complaint, saying 
the cause of the two claims was distinct, based on the technical reports provided. 
And that it was fair for Hiscox to cover the costs associated with any repair works 
from the first claim. So, he felt it was fair for Hiscox to request a second excess.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed, saying the additional water from the drain issue wouldve 
likely negatively impacted the property. He described the emergency repairs needed 
to fix the drain problem not resolved from the first claim, and clarified that Hiscox had 
agreed to cover all the related costs. He also mentioned concerns about the original 
drainage investigation report, and said his local water utility company had attended 
on several occasions to complete works on the drains.
Our Investigator looked again but didnt change his mind. He said the arboricultural 
report suggested the drains were surveyed and had no significant defects. And the 
report was clear the cause of damage for the second claim was separate to the first. 
Mr and Mrs S still disagreed, saying Hiscoxs view that the second incident of 
subsidence was caused by the vegetation was wrong and felt he was being asked to 
pay two excesses unnecessarily.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I will only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. In this case, the 
focus of the complaint is whether or not it is fair for Hiscox to charge two excesses.
Mr and Mrs S policy includes an excess for subsidence claims. They argue the 
events between 2010 and 2016 are linked, and the second occurrence only took 
place as a result of Hiscoxs mistakes so should be considered a single claim. 
Theyve also challenged its account that the second incident is caused by vegetation 
and not the drainage system.
Mr and Mrs S have commented on the possibilities for this to have an alternative 
cause  but this hasnt been supported by any expert evidence or opinion. So, while 
Ive carefully considered what theyve said, Ive gone on to consider the available 
expert evidence.
Hiscox has provided a certificate of structural adequacy from the 2010 claim following 
monitoring. This persuades me the earlier incident of subsidence related to the drains 
was resolved. 
I understand Hiscox has since accepted costs for additional repairs that relate to the 
drains. While it seems right to me for Hiscox to cover this if this was its error  as it 
has done so  I have to consider whether this is the cause of the second incident of 
subsidence. And the evidence Ive seen, including the arboricultural appraisal report, 
instead shows the second subsidence claim is caused by vegetation at the property.
I recognise some of the affected vegetation from the second claim were pruned 
previously within the first. But when handling a claim of this nature I wouldnt expect 
Hiscox to take steps to prevent all possible future subsidence. And instead Id expect 
it to resolve the subsidence in hand  which in this case related to the drains  and 
which it did, evidenced by its certificate of structural adequacy.
So, while the damage may be similar in places, Im not persuaded the cause of the 
damage is not the same nor caused by Hiscoxs actions during the first claim. It 
follows Im satisfied Hiscox has acted fairly by seeking a second excess.
Hiscox has agreed to reconsider the matter if Mr and Mrs S obtained their own 
independent survey, and it has said the cost of this would fall to them. I think this is 
fair although I would expect Hiscox to consider reimbursing these costs depending 
on the findings of any such report.
I also recognise that Mr and Mrs S have provided commentary about the quality of 
works and investigation carried out previously. But Ive been given very little to 
consider in this area. So, it hasnt changed my mind.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman