DRN-4285877
The complaint
Mr C and Ms B complai n that Handelsbanken plc (HB ) wont refund money they lost in a 
scam.
There is a related complaint brought by Ms B and Mr Cs company (which I will refer to as 
A)  which is about the same scam. To give clarity, this decision refers to the background 
and facts of both, but Ive come to my decision in the individual circumstances of each 
complaint.
What happened 
What Mr C and Ms B say:
Ms B wanted to complete so me roofing work on her house  for repairs and  the installation 
of four windo ws. She wanted to get this done as she had had previous delays in the house 
refurbishment and the roof was leaking. She wanted to get it completed a s winter was 
approaching  she had a young son. Because of this, she felt vulnerable. 
Ms B had a personal mortgage agreed with HB, and the final tranche of £28,000 was due to 
be drawn fo r building work.
Mr C and Ms B found a building company to d o the work  which I will cal l Z. Z quoted a 
price of £20,600 and wanted a 50% deposit. A and Ms B paid the deposit of £10,300; and 
later agreed to pay a further £3,240 for further works agree d. A total of £13,540 was paid for 
the depo sit and further work as follows:
Current Account - A
Date Payments/ Account activity Beneficiary
16 August 2021 £6,300 Z
17 August 2021 £6,300  from Ms B personal account A
Current Account  Ms B:
Date Payments/ Account 
activityBeneficiary
17 August 2021 Credit: £28,000  mortgage 
drawdown Ms B current account
17 August 2021 £6,300  transfer to A A
19 August 2021 £4,000 Z
30 September 2021 £3,240 Z
A and Ms B made online payments to Z. On 16 August 2021, £6,300 was paid from As 
current account with HB.  On 19 August 2021, £4,000 was paid from Ms Bs personal 
account with HB, and a further amount of £3,240 was paid on 30 September 2021. This 
complaint deals with the payment made by Ms B for £7,240  the other payments made by A 
are the subject of the related complaint .
Z failed to start any of the agreed work. On 30 September 2021, three of the four windows 
were delivered, but not the fourth. Therefore, allowing for the three windows that were 
delivered, Ms B said the loss was a total of £12,310 (between her personal account and A).
She said she had every reason to believe Z was trustworthy. He had come recommended by 
friends who had used his services, as had other friends of theirs. Ms Bs husband had 
walked past another project in the area that Z was apparently working on and had seen Zs 
banner and workmen there. She later became aware that that work proved to be a scam. 
She said she took reasonable steps to ensure the payments were legitimate and that she 
was dealing with a legitimate person and company. She was sent an invoice from Z showing 
the company name, account details and address. Zs website showed the same details as 
the invoice.
She reported what happened to Action Fraud and Trading Standards. Trading Standards 
confirmed the address given by Z was bogus, Z wasnt registered the address it said it was, 
and it wasnt registered at Companies House. Trading Standards confirmed Z was acting 
fraudulently.
Ms B said that the episode was traumatic and stressful for her and her family. They had 
been duped by someone they thought they could trust; the building work was delayed (and 
had been so before). Ms B said the family were left in a severe state of psychological, 
emotional, and physical stress for months. The house was left with a broken roof during part 
of the winter, and the house couldnt be properly heated. They believed it had an effect on 
their young son, who also showed signs of anxiety. The work wasnt completed (by another 
contractor) until January 2022, and in the meantime, there was scaffolding at the house for 
five months, and she had to pay for a pavement licence (£550 per month) and scaffolding 
inspections (£90 per week). Ms B had to borrow £12,000 from a family member to complete 
the work with anther contractor.
Ms B wrote to HB in January 2022 - she said she had been dealing with a fraudster. The 
payment from As account and from her personal account had been approved by HB and 
had passed their checks. She said she and A should be reimbursed for the payment.
What HB say:
HB said Ms B had been quoted £20,600 for the completion of the work and was asked for a 
deposit of 50% for materials. £10,300 was paid - £6,300 from As account and £4,000 from 
Ms Bs account. A further £3,240 was paid by Ms B in September 2021 for the cost of four windows, as Z said it needed the money as it hadnt been paid for a previous job.
HB said the online payment by Z was properly authorised and consented to by A and Ms B  
as they were made in accordance with the bank mandate. Once Ms B raised her concerns 
with HB, they contacted the recipient bank but there were no funds left to return. HB didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Our investigation so far:
Our investigator issued two views. She firstly /Ms B said Z intended to scam A and Ms B and 
not provide the service paid for. So HB should refund £6,300 plus simple interest of 8% p.a. 
She said the payment was out of line with normal account activity and HB shouldve asked 
probing questions. If they had, the scam wouldve come to light.
HB didnt agree and argued:
HB had agreed a mortgage loan of £158,000 to Ms B for the total work being done on 
her property. Funds had been drawn down over a period to pay various contractors.
£28,000 remained to be drawn in August 2021. Ms B transferred £6,300 of the 
remaining mortgage monies to A, which were used to pay Z.
Ms B wouldve received warnings about potential scams when making the online 
payment. Ms B had made payments from her account to building contractors. For 
example, there were payments of £4,921.13 and £1,506.85 in September 2020. 
Shed also paid building contractors substantial amounts from her other current 
account. So  the payment wasnt unusual. 
When Ms B asked to draw down the final tranche of £28,000, she showed Zs invoice 
for the deposit of £10,300 and a supporting email from the architect. HB said Ms B 
advised a member of staff that she had done her own due diligence on Z. She had 
met him, checked his website, seen his previous work and had got 
recommendations from more than one person.
HB said it didnt need to intervene and question the payments.
Our investigator then issued a second view. This said the payment wasnt suspicious or 
unusual and there was no need for HB to have intervened.
Mr C and Ms B asked that an ombudsman look at As complaint. Mr C also made the point 
that HB had promised that they would carry out due diligence on the contactor when a 
payment was to be made to them  to ensure they were a trustworthy and bone fide 
operator. Mr C said HB said that was to be part of the service they promised. He said the 
responsibility lay with HB to check out Z and therefore the payments shouldve been flagged 
and questioned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards.
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code doesnt apply in this
case. This is because HB is not a signatory to the Code.
Im sorry to hear that Mr C and Ms B have lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question 
that Ms B authorised and consented to the payments in this case. She made the online 
payments of £4,000 and £3,240. So Ms B is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first 
instance.  
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HB should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I need to decide whether HB acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with A when it made 
the payment, or whether HB should have done more than it did. I have considered the 
position carefully.
Firstly, I considered whether it wouldve been reasonable to expect HB to have intervened in 
the payment made by Ms B. I looked at whether the payments of £4,000 and £3,240 were 
unusual enough for HB to do that.
In doing so, theres a balance to be struck: HB has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams 
and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction 
as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, I think HB 
acted reasonably in processing the payments.
I can see that the payment wasnt out of line with the normal account activity of Ms B. There 
were payments to builders or contractors in September 2020 - £4,921.13 and £1,506.85. 
I can see there were other large payments of £1,188.23 and £1,249.05 (September 2020); 
£8,596.02, £1,640.27, £3,744.20, £3,540.05, £1,800 (October 2020); and £1,472 (December 
2020). So  in the context of Ms Bs normal account activity, the size of the payments made 
to Z werent out of character.Therefore - I dont think it wouldve been reasonable to expect HB to have intervened and 
questioned the payment. 
The payment was also consistent with the payments being made for the work being done on 
Ms Bs house  and HB had provided a mortgage to her to finance this. And  I can see that 
there was a drawdown of Ms Bs mortgage at the same time. 
Ms B had asked for the drawdown of the final tranche of her mortgage on 16 August 2021. 
She wrote to HB to ask that that took place and the email said  We are going ahead with the 
roofing work now as part of our build, and attached is an invoice for the 50% deposit for that 
roofing work, for James to approve. Could you arrange for us to draw down the final tranche 
of the loan. £28,000 was drawn from Ms Bs personal mortgage, credited to Ms Bs current 
account and she then made the payments to Z. So  the payment was consistent with the 
work being done on Ms Bs house, and which was being financed by HB.
I also saw the payment authorisation completed by HB when Ms B called them to make the 
payments of £6,300 and £4,000. This recorded that she spoke to HB and confirmed she was 
happy to make the payments to Z.
So - in this case, I dont consider HB acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the payments 
to be made. Whilst I understand the loss has had a big impact on Ms B, I dont consider the 
payments were so out of character that HB ought reasonably to have had concerns that Ms 
B may be the victim of a scam.
Did HB say they would check Zs credentials?
Ive considered what Mr C said to us  that HB promised to carry out due diligence on Z. He 
says that HB had a responsibility to check that Z was a legal entity and that its registered 
address was legitimate. He says - if HB had done so and informed them that Z was bogus, 
they wouldnt have made the payments. And Mr C also referred to a statement made by our 
investigator that HB wouldve checked out Z. 
I was concerned by this and so asked HB more. They told us they would never undertake to 
check out a contractor in the way Mr C described. They said that isnt part of what they offer 
as a bank, nor would they be qualified to do so. 
I asked to see HBs customer notes to see if there was any reference to such a commitment 
by HB, but I couldnt see anything. I can see that no checks on Z were carried out by HB. We 
asked for recordings of calls  to see if there was a conversation about this point - but HB 
told us they didnt retain them at that time. 
HB wanted to approve the drawdown of funds from Ms Bs mortgage loan, and they required 
confirmation from an architect each time. Ive seen the correspondence between HB and the 
architect  which confirmed the drawdown of the mortgage on 16 August 2021 was 
supported by the architect - to ensure the amount to be drawn was appropriate for the work 
done or to be undertaken. But  thats not the same as HB carrying out due diligence on Z.
I think what HB have said here is reasonable  and I agree that it would be very unusual for 
a bank to do what Mr C has said. So  I dont think that means HB shouldve checked the 
credentials of Z as Mr C has said.
 
Recovery:Ive also gone on to see what HB did to try to recover the money. Ms B contacted HB in 
January 2022, and at that stage HB contacted the recipient bank. But by that time, no funds 
were left in the account with them.  Ive seen the evidence the recipient bank gave to HB. So 
 HB did all they could here. 
I was sorry to hear that the work wasnt carried out as Ms B wanted. This must have been 
very disappointing and frustrating  and I sympathise with that Ms B and her family have 
gone through. It has cost her a lot of money. I know that my decision will be disappointing, 
but Im not asking HB to do anything here
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman