Page 1 of 9The complaint
Mr C complains that Fortrade Limited pressured him into re-opening a Contracts for 
Difference (CFD) trading account and gave him bad advice on what to trade. He complains 
that as a result of Fortrades actions, he suffered financial losses for which he should be 
compensated. 
What happened
Mr C initially opened his account in 2017  at which point he deposited $100 but withdrew it
two days later without carrying out any trades.
Sometime in March 2020 Fortrade contacted Mr C via email. The email explained that the
recent crash with crude oil was an event that only happened a few times in a decade. It
said that if Mr C wanted to make money 100k, 200k, this was the time. In response, Mr C
said that his account was inactive. Fortrade therefore reactivated Mr Cs account by
obtaining certain documents from him, and updated the appropriateness questionnaire  Mr
Cs answers hadnt changed from 2017.
In relation to his reason for trading, Mr C circled other (instead of capital growth, income,
speculation or hedging). In answer to the question knowledge of trading, Mr C circled from
a relevant role in the financial services sector. He said he had no experience in FX or CFD
trading, but he did have significant online trading experience. He had substantial annual
income.
As a result of this assessment, Fortrade allowed Mr C to open an account  which he did. He
initially deposited around $5,600  but he lost over $4,000 on one trade the day after
opening his account. Between 12 March 2020 and 23 March 2020 Mr C deposited over
$30,000, and eventually withdrew $11,200 and stopped trading.
Mr C complained to Fortrade about its decision to allow him to trade. He said that he had no
experience with CFDs and explained that during the second day of his trading, he suffered a
great loss, because he hadnt understood that by depositing more money to cover his 
margin, he was taking on more risk. He said he initially told the trader that he needed time to
learn the platform and thats why he had only deposited $5,000, but the trader kept on telling
him to deposit more money in order to avoid being margin called and this led him to incur
even larger losses.
Fortrade looked into Mr Cs complaint, but didnt think it had done anything wrong. In short it
said that the account was appropriate for Mr C and that he had been given all the relevant
risk warnings and explanations. 
DRN-3333634Page 2 of 9It said that the account was execution only which meant trading was Mr Cs responsibility. It 
also said that the support manager provided him with education in the form of explaining to 
Mr C the main features of the platform, what open profit and loss meant, equity, margin 
level and other tools to manage risk such as stop loss and take profit orders. Overall, it 
concluded that Mr C had lost money on trades he wanted to make and it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong, so Mr C referred his complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2021. In it I said:
Mr C has told this service that he had no experience in trading CFDs, and his professional
role was as a corporate banker. This gave him an understanding of investing, but it didnt
have anything to do with trading derivatives or CFDs.
Im persuaded by Mr Cs testimony  I consider it has been consistent and persuasive.
And the form he filled out reflected this  its very clear that he told Fortrade that he had no
experience in CFD trading. In fact theres nothing in the form that indicates he had any
experience which would allow him to understand the risks of CFD trading. And Fortrade did
nothing to establish whether, in the absence of any experience, he had the necessary
knowledge to understand those risks.
The whole assessment and Fortrades conclusion that CFD trading was appropriate seems
to be based on one answer  that he had knowledge of trading from a relevant role in the
financial services sector. But it isnt clear from the form what type of trading this refers to 
because the form talks about CFD trading and online trading, which Mr C acknowledged he
had experience in. Theres no indication that this particular question specifically relates to
CFD trading  and Im satisfied that if this had been the question, Mr C would not have
answered it in the same way, because his job or role, whilst in financial services, did not
relate to CFD trading. Subsequent conversations which he had with Fortrade confirm this.
There is simply no evidence at any stage that Mr C had any knowledge or experience of
CFD trading  and therefore, there was insufficient evidence for Fortrade to conclude, at the
time, that Mr C had the necessary knowledge and experience to understand the risks
involved in trading CFDs.
In my view, therefore, CFD trading was not appropriate for Mr C. I dont agree that his
experience in investments generally, even if it was at a very high level, meant that he
understood the very specific risks he was about to face. And in my view, Fortrade ought to
have tested Mr Cs knowledge in order to establish whether, in the absence of any specific
experience, he understood specific features of CFD trading, like the basics of trading on
margin, and the consequences of adding more margin to avoid margin calls. Im persuaded,
on balance, that if it had done this, it wouldve concluded that Mr C did not understand the
risks and that CFD trading was therefore not appropriate. This means that it wouldve been
required to warn Mr C that CFD trading was not appropriate for him and that he should not
go ahead.
Putting things right
The question Ive therefore needed to consider is whether, on balance, this warning wouldve
dissuaded Mr C from going ahead and opening his account. I need to consider this because
if I conclude that the warning wouldve made no difference to Mr Cs decision, then it
wouldnt be fair to ask Fortrade to pay compensation  after all, the trades Mr C placed were
his own, and Im satisfied Fortrade didnt advise or pressure him into making them.
On the other hand, if I consider it likely that a warning wouldve stopped Mr C from opening
his account, then I think Fortrade ought to bear the financial consequences of its inadequate
assessment of Mr Cs knowledge and experience.Ive therefore considered this aspect of the complaint very carefully. And taking everything
into account, Ive provisionally concluded that its more likely than not that a warning by
Fortrade to the effect that it concluded, on the basis of the answers Mr C gave, that trading
CFDs wasnt appropriate for him, wouldve been enough to stop Mr C opening his account. I
say this because:
Ive seen no evidence that Mr C was intending on reactivating his account but
for Fortrades repeated contact with him  including the last email which
prompted his reply.
Mr C stopped trading very shortly after opening his account  which in my
view is evidence that he was not prepared for the type of risks he was taking.
Mr C had no experience in CFD trading, and Im satisfied hed not understood
just how different this was to the type of trading he was used to. In my view, a
warning that this wasnt appropriate for him, by the very business that had
been inviting him to reopen the account, wouldve persuaded him not to go
ahead.
This means that in my view, Mr C would not have traded  and I m satisfied theres no 
evidence he was intending to trade elsewhere because he only did so following the invitation  
from Fortrade and wa s not actively looking to trade. Im therefore satisfied that it is fair and 
reasonable to ask Fortrade to refund the mone y Mr C deposited, minus any withdrawals.
Ive considered whethe r interest should be added to this sum, and I m not currently 
persuaded that would b e fair. However, I d o think th at losing the sums that he did wouldve  
caused Mr C distre ss and inconvenience, for which Fortrade oug ht to pa y some 
compensation  and Im currently minded to award £250 fo r that.
Mr C agreed with my provisional decision. He said th at during the time he had calls fro m a 
relationship officer who was advising him and pushing him to buy CFDs in Petroleum and 
Palladium. Mr C explained th at he didnt even know what Palladium was, but Fortrade kept 
telling him it was the most popula r instrument and a lot of peopl e had become rich. Mr C 
confirmed that to this day he didnt know what CFDs are or how the y work.  
Fortrade didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said the relevant rules didnt say th at a 
customer must have some experience of trading CFD s in order for it to b e appropriate for 
them to trade. It said the rules are clear that it wasnt necessa ry for some one to have 
experience of a particula r product in order for it to be deemed appropriate. 
Fortrade also said th at the rules didnt require Fortrade to be satisfied that Mr C did 
understand the risk involve d in trading CFDs, but rather that he was capable of 
understanding the risk. It said that the fact that Mr C had never traded CFDs didnt mean 
that he was incapable of understanding the risks involved in tradin g, or that he was 
incorrectl y assessed by Fortrade. 
Fortrade said that it was clear beyond any doubt that Mr C had sufficient knowledge and 
experience to understand the ri sks involved. It pointed to COBS 10.2.6G which sai d that a 
firm may be satisfied that a client s knowledge alone is sufficient for him to understand the 
risks involved in a product or service. Fortrade said that it was fully and justifiably satisfied 
that Mr Cs knowledge and professional experience meant that he was more than capable of 
understanding the risks in trading CFDs. It said that Mr C had spent 30 years as a corporate 
banker, held a degree in Economics and had many years trading other financial products. It 
said that given his background, it cannot be the case that [Mr C] was incapable of 
understanding the risks associated with trading CFDs. 
Page 3
 of 9Page 4 of 9It said that while CFDs are relatively complex, the concepts are not difficult for someone 
with an Economics degree to understand, particular someone who already had experience 
of financial markets. 
Furthermore, it said that Fortrade explained the risks of trading CFD to Mr C on more than 
one occasion. It said that the FCA confirmed that a client may have appropriate knowledge 
and experience if the firm has provided information to the client about the nature of the 
product or service and the risks that it entails. 
It concluded by saying:
Given that [Mr C] is a highly qualified, intelligent and experience professional person, there 
was no reason for Fotrade to have doubted his ability to understand the information 
presented to him. Indeed the risk warnings were both clear and stark. It must be the case 
that someone with [Mr Cs] educational and professional background would be quite capable 
of understanding and assessing the information which was presented to him prior to trading 
his account. The fact that he had no prior experience of trading CFDs does not render him 
incapable of understanding the information provided to him by Fortrade.
It referred me to a telephone call between Mr C and Fortrade during which Mr C repeatedly 
said he understood what he was being told, and made reference to his significant academic 
and professional background. Fortrade said this call was evidence that Mr C knew exactly 
what he was doing and how the process worked. It therefore said that it would be unfair and 
irrational for me to hold Fortrade responsible for the losses he sustained. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, Ive considered Fortrades comments in response to my provisional findings 
very carefully. However, Im not persuaded to change my findings for a number of reasons. 
I should start by correcting Fortrades interpretation of my provisional findings  I did not 
provisionally conclude that in the absence of any experience in trading CFDs, a consumer 
could never pass appropriateness. But I dont agree that the test is whether, overall, Mr Cs 
background allowed him to understand the information provided to him by Fortrade. That is 
not the test as set out in COBS10A. In my view, Fortrades response to my provisional 
decision demonstrates that it has not appreciated how inadequate its assessment of Mr Cs 
knowledge and experience was. So for clarity, Ive decided to set out the rules as they are in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Conduct of Business Rules (COBS). Ive then set 
out some relevant guidance issued by both the FCA and the European Security and Markets 
Authority (ESMA). 
Before I do, its important I address another aspect of Fortrades comments  namely the 
education it says it gave Mr C after he opened the account. This information did not, in my 
view, increase Mr Cs level of understanding such that he now had sufficient knowledge to 
understand the risks involved in trading CFDs. But in any event, this information was 
provided to Mr C after he opened his account  in other words, after Fortrade had already 
concluded that trading CFDs was appropriate for him. Guidance at COBS10A2.9 clearly 
refers to this happening before assessing appropriateness, not afterwards. It could 
therefore not have used this as a reason to conclude he had sufficient knowledge, because 
at the point it made that assessment, it had not yet provided him this additional information. Page 5 of 9Relevant rules and guidance
COBS10A required Fortrade to assess whether Mr C had  the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the product or investment 
service offered or demanded. In doing so, Fortrade needed to ensure that  the information 
regarding a clients or potential clients knowledge and experience in the investment field 
includes the following, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and 
extent of the service to be provide and the type of product or transaction envisaged, 
including their complexity and the risks involved:
(a) The types of service, transaction and financial instrument with which the client is 
familiar;
(b) The nature, volume and frequency of the clients transactions in financial instruments 
and the period over which they have been carried out;
(c) The level of education and profession or relevant former profession of the client or 
potential client. 
COBS10A.2.8 also allowed Fortrade to be satisfied that knowledge alone was sufficient for 
him to understand the risks involved in a product of service and, where reasonable, a firm 
may infer knowledge from experience. 
ESMAs Questions and Answers Relating to the provision of CFDs and other speculative 
products to retail investors under MiFID provided some further guidance to firms on how to 
apply this rule. 
It said that in order to be able to assess the appropriateness of CFDs or other speculative 
products for retail investors, firms should ensure that the information collected about the 
clients knowledge and experience is sufficiently detailed and granular, including covering 
the specific product to be traded and the relevant underlying asset class. And furthermore, 
the more complex or risky the instrument is, the more detailed the information collected by a 
firm should be in order to be able to correctly assess the appropriateness of the product for a 
retail investor. This meant that firms, like Fortrade, offering CFDs or other speculative 
products should therefore ask specific questions to identify relevant experience and 
knowledge of the retail client of both the underlying asset and market, and types of 
speculative financial instruments that will be offered to the client . 
ESMA said that, for example, the questions designed to ascertain a retail investors 
knowledge and experience to trade in binary options should be different from the questions 
designed to assess a retail investors knowledge and experience to trade in CFDs, which 
incorporate the element of leverage.
It gave some examples of bad practice, including asking overly broad questions, or asking 
questions about knowledge and experience in trading financial instruments in general, not 
specific to the speculative products to be traded. 
ESMA also explained that firms should be obtaining  information about the clients previous 
experience of trading relevant financial instruments. In particular, for CFDs, it said firms 
should get evidence of:
Previous trading in CFDs or similar speculative instruments such as rolling spot FX.
Previous trading in other derivative instruments traded with margin such as futures or 
options.Page 6 of 9Information about volume of trading and frequency. 
Information about the clients professional experience e.g. whether the client has 
worked in a financial services firm in a role that is relevant to trading in OTC 
leveraged financial instruments
In terms of knowledge, ESMA said that in order to be specific enough to enable the firm to 
assess correctly the appropriateness of a product for a given retail client, questions about 
the clients knowledge should assess his or her understanding of at least the key risk areas 
for each product that will be offered. ESMA then gave a list of questions or areas that firms 
should be exploring when testing the clients level of knowledge. 
Finally, when taking into account information about academic or professional experience that 
may demonstrate knowledge relevant to trading in CFDs or other speculative products, firms 
should be obtaining sufficiently granular information about educational qualifications. 
It said that firms  should not count general education, course or qualifications in non-financial 
service related topics as relevant knowledge for trading in CFDs or other speculative 
products. 
In 2016 the FCA sent Fortrade, and other CFD providers, a Dear CEO letter in which it 
outlined a number of concerns around how firms were carrying out appropriateness 
assessments.
It said that many firms gathered insufficient detail regarding the types of service, transaction 
and designated investments with which the client is familiar. And, furthermore, did not take 
into account the nature, volume and/or frequency of the clients previous transactional 
experience or the time period over which such transactions had been carried out. 
In 2017 the FCA concluded a further review on the extent to which CFD providers were 
complying with COBS. It concluded that a firms assessment questions should aim to obtain 
from the client relevant information about the clients knowledge and experience (including 
relevant qualifications), and seek evidence in support of answers provided. It highlighted 
how knowledge assessments benefit from inclusion of general risk management-based 
questions (for example, knowledge and use of leverage, stop-losses and other risk 
mitigation mechanisms)  and it said that assessments of appropriateness that do not 
adequately evaluate a prospective clients knowledge and experience will not comply with 
COBS 10.2.1R. Finally, it also reiterated firms failure to take adequate account of the 
nature, volume and/or frequency of prospective clients previous transactional experience, or 
the time over which such transactions had been carried out. This is required by COBS 
10.2.2R(2). 
Fortrades appropriateness assessment
Based on the information above, Im satisfied that the regulator requires a comprehensive 
assessment of a clients knowledge and experience before a firm can conclude that trading 
CFDs is appropriate. And Im satisfied this means that there will only be very specific and 
limited scenarios in which a firm can simply infer knowledge from experience  and, in any 
event, Im satisfied a firm would need to have detailed and granular knowledge about that 
experience before inferring a level of knowledge that makes trading CFDs appropriate for a 
consumer. So Im satisfied that overall, experience and knowledge require a thorough 
assessment before a firm can conclude that trading CFDs is appropriate. Page 7 of 9In responding to my provisional decision, I think Fortrade has confused knowledge with 
experience. It has on the one hand explained that Mr Cs professional role and academic 
qualification conferred on him a certain amount of knowledge  and this knowledge, it 
concludes, must have been enough for him to understand the risks of trading CFDs. In other 
words, it has attempted to rely on COBS 10A.2.8  a firm may infer know ledge from 
experience. And then it has also relied on this same rule which says a firm may be satisfied 
that the clients knowledge alone is sufficient for him to understand the risks involved in a 
product or service. 
But Fortrade has failed to appreciate that COBS 10A.2.8 requires some assessment of the 
clients experience and/or knowledge. If Fortrade was intending to conclude that Mr Cs 
knowledge alone was sufficient, given his lack of experience in trading CFDs, then it needed 
to actually test this knowledge in order to be able to reasonably determine whether it was 
sufficient. Equally, if it wanted to conclude that his professional role was enough, it needed 
to ascertain precisely what the role was. And it needed to do this before concluding that 
trading CFDs was appropriate. 
Instead, Im satisfied that Fortrades assessment was inadequate and not in line with what 
the regulator expects firms to do. Fortrade didnt have sufficient information about Mr Cs 
professional role at the point that he applied to re-open the account  although it knew it 
didnt have any relevance to CFD or derivatives trading. Mr C has confirmed that his role did 
not involve trading on margin, CFDs, or anything else related to the account or the service 
he was asking Fortrade to provide to him. And during the application it took no steps to 
ascertain whether Mr C had any actual knowledge of CFDs  including his understanding of 
the differences to normal stock trading and the risks associated with trading on margin or 
other similarly high risk investments. 
And whilst Ive noted that Fortrade thinks that CFDs are relatively complex but wouldnt be 
hard for someone with an Economics degree to understand, I fundamentally disagree. CFDs 
arent relatively complex  theyre a very complex and high risk financial instrument which 
causes losses to the majority of consumers who trade them. And as the FCA also says, are 
not going to be appropriate for the majority of retail consumers. I dont agree that a degree in 
Economics gives any particular knowledge or understanding of CFDs and Fortrade has 
provided no evidence or argument to back up this assertion. In any event, as Ive said 
above, if Fortrade wanted to rely on Mr Cs degree, it needed to either fully probe what Mr 
Cs degree was in  or it needed to test Mr Cs knowledge in order to confirm its assumption 
that Mr C fully understood the risks he would be taking. It did neither. 
Mr C has explained that he did not understand what CFDs were, and to this day still does 
not. He said that he had traded stocks before in the past, and thats why answered the 
questions on the application form the way he did. But he has confirmed that he has never 
traded CFDs in a personal capacity, nor in a professional one  and he has no qualification 
or degree in this area that would allow him to have the kind of knowledge required to 
understand the risks which are specific to trading CFDs. 
For all these reasons, Im satisfied that Fortrades assessment was not adequate, because it 
neither properly assessed what experience Mr C actually had, nor did it assess what 
knowledge he had. As a result, Im persuaded its conclusion that he had the knowledge and 
experience to understand the risks of trading CFDs was flawed and not based on relevant 
considerations. Furthermore, given everything the FCA has said about how such 
assessments should be carried out, Im satisfied Fortrades process for establishing whether 
trading CFDs was appropriate for Mr C fell significantly short of what was required by the 
regulator and the rules. Therefore, Im satisfied that Fotrades conclusion that trading CFDs 
was appropriate for Mr C was not fair and reasonable.  Page 8 of 9Putting things right
COBS10A.3 says that if a firm decides that a particular service or product is not appropriate, 
it must warn the consumer about this. 
In Mr Cs case, he did not receive such a warning, because Fortrade concluded that the 
account was appropriate. But in my view, Fortrade ought to have concluded that based on 
the answers he gave, trading CFDs was not appropriate for Mr C  and so Im satisfied that it 
should have warned him about this. 
This means that I now need to decide what wouldve happened if Fortrade had in fact 
provided Mr C this warning  would Mr C have traded anyway, either with Fortrade or 
elsewhere? Or would a warning have been enough to convince Mr C that trading CFDs was 
not the right thing for him, and therefore dissuaded him from going ahead? 
I note that Fortrade did not provide any comments on this aspect of my provisional findings. 
So Ive reconsidered how to fairly and reasonably award compensation to Mr C. 
And taking everything into account, I remain satisfied that a warning by Fortrade to the effect 
that it concluded, on the basis of the answers Mr C gave, that trading CFDs wasnt 
appropriate for him, wouldve been enough to stop Mr C re-opening his account. I say this 
because:
Mr C never traded on his account when he first opened it. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr C was intending on reactivating his account but 
for Fortrades repeated contact with him  including the last email which 
prompted his reply.
Mr C stopped trading very shortly after opening his account  which in my 
view is evidence that he was not prepared for the type of risks he was taking.
Mr C had no experience in CFD trading, and Im satisfied hed not understood 
just how different this was to the type of trading he was used to. 
In addition, its clear to me that Mr C only decided to reply to Fortrades email because of the 
exceedingly positive commentary in it  to the extent that it was inviting him to potentially 
make profits of 100k, 200k. The email did not give a balanced picture of what trading CFDs 
in oil would realistically achieve for Mr C, and in particular, that rather than making such 
significant profits, the likelihood was hed lose his money  as most of Fortrades clients do.  
Im satisfied a warning that this wasnt appropriate for him, by the very business that had 
been inviting him to re-open the account in this way, wouldve persuaded him not to go 
ahead.  
For these reasons, Im persuaded on balance that if Fortrade had warned Mr C as it should 
have, he would not have traded with it. Im persuaded he wouldve likely left the account 
dormant much as he had done in the past. 
And whilst I acknowledge the trades he eventually placed were his  in my view, he would 
never have been exposed to the significant risks this type of trading involves had Fortrade 
done what it was supposed to do. 
Therefore, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable that Fortrade, and not Mr C, bear the financial 
consequences of the inadequate assessment it carried out of his knowledge and experience. 
And Im satisfied that making such losses wouldve caused Mr C distress and inconvenience, 
for which Im satisfied £250 is fair and reasonable compensation. Page 9 of 9Ive considered whether any interest ought to be added to the sums which Mr C traded and 
lost  but I remain of the view that this wouldnt be fair in the particular circumstances of this 
case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Fortrade Limited, who must pay 
the compensation Ive outlined above within 28 days of when we tell it Mr C has accepted 
this final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman