DRN-3691518
The complaint
Miss P was unhappy with Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her claim.
What happened
After Miss P had an accident Admiral decided that her car was uneconomical to repair and
paid her its market value. But she felt shed had to do too much to help Admiral, they hadnt
kept her updated, and they still hadnt resolved her claim properly. She said that this had
caused her distress. She wanted Admiral to apologise, investigate her claim properly, and
compensate her.
Admiral accepted theyd made some service failings, and offered her compensation, but they
didnt accept her other complaints. Miss P didnt agree and didnt think the compensation
was enough. So the case was passed to me to decide and I issued my provisional decision 
on 14 June. Both Admiral and Miss P made some comments and I deal with them below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said as follows:
 Miss P had an accident in late January and said that she reported it to Admiral that day. So
she was unhappy when Admiral contacted her in early February asking for details of the
incident. She said shed already spent hours talking to Admiral about it and had sent them
images.
 
She said shed been contacted by a salvage company who pretended to be
Admirals affiliate and wanted to collect her car. But she realised the pretence and Admiral
confirmed they were not affiliated. She was unhappy as she felt that Admiral must have sold
the salvage agent her details and breached data protection. Our investigator explained to
Miss P that she could take this up with the Information Commissioners Office if she wishes.
However Admiral searched their records but couldnt find any record that Miss P had already
contacted them. Ive looked at their records and they show that Admiral first heard of the
claim through the third partys solicitors in early February. They then contacted Miss P
promptly. 
Admiral asked Miss P to what numbers she had reported the incident and sent
photos. They checked those numbers and thought that they were probably from a scam
organisation impersonating Admiral in internet adverts. So Admiral thought that it was more
likely than not that Miss P had reported the incident to the impersonator by mistake and not
Admiral. Miss P was upset that the salvage agents had her details, and she felt that Admiral
had breached data protection. But although I can see why Miss P would be upset about that
situation, I havent seen anything to suggest that Admiral caused that situation. And as it
hasnt been shown that Miss P did report the accident to Admiral , I cant hold Admiral
responsible for failure to act on her report. In any event, their file shows that they did act
quickly once they first heard about it from the third partys solicitors.
However, while I can see from Admirals file notes that they thought she had called a
scammer impersonating them, I dont see that Admiral explained their thoughts to Miss P .
And so I think that the matter has continued to cause Miss P confusion. Ill come back to this
below.
Miss P also complained to Admiral that after they paid her claim, and Admiral were
responsible for her car, she received two traffic contraventions and fines for her car, and it
caused her time and stress to clear them. I understand that Miss P and Admiral have dealt
with these as a separate complaint and so I dont deal with that issue here.
Admiral decided that her car was uneconomic to repair and paid her its market value. But
she felt that Admiral hadnt dealt with her claim properly overall. She said that Admiral and
their approved repairer didnt get back to her and that Admiral hadnt kept her updated about
their investigations into liability and the third party claim. She said that they still hadnt told
her the outcome after about a year after the incident, although shed spent a lot of time
helping their investigators. 
Admiral accepted that their communication with Miss P could have been better. But they 
explained that they hadnt established liability at that point, and it could take some time to do 
that. I think this is not an unreasonable time for an insurer to take with a claim investigation, 
and I can see from their file that Admiral were still investigating it. But I think that Admiral 
could have been better about keeping Miss P informed that they were doing that.
She also claimed that Admiral took a premium renewal payment from her account even
though theyd written her car off a year earlier. She said they persistently requested
payment, which felt like harassment, and they took too long to refund it. Admiral apologised
for this. They said theyd made a mistake in not cancelling Miss Ps policy after they paid her
for her written- off car. They therefore issued her a refund of £409.42 plus interest on the
period shed lost use of that amount.
Admiral offered Miss P compensation totalling £150 for not keeping her updated about her
claim and mistakenly taking the renewal payment. They also refunded her the renewal
payment and interest for the time theyd had it. I think that is fair compensation for those
issues.
However, while there will always be some inconvenience for a consumer in dealing with an
accident claim, I think that there were two matters where Admirals actions have made Miss
Ps claim experience worse than it had to be.
Miss P complained that Admiral didnt do anything to help with her wellbeing after the
accident. She said that the third partys behaviour towards her during the incident had been
threatening and she still felt unsafe when driving. She felt that Admiral should have done
more to help her and get her therapy or a medical assessment. Admiral apologised if she felt
that theyd not asked her about her wellbeing following the incident. But theyd listened back
to their recording of their first call with her about the incident. They didnt feel she had
mentioned it then, and she had cut the call short due to her working commitments and her
belief that she had already told them about the incident. 
However they were willing to look into it further if Miss P could show that she had spoken to 
them. As Ive said above, Admiral think that Miss P first reported the incident to someone 
who was not Admiral but was impersonating them. And so it was likely to have been an 
impersonator she told about the circumstances of the incident. But I think that Admiral did 
not do enough to help Miss P understand why they believed shed first reported the incident 
to scammers and not them. And I see thats continued to cause her confusion and distress.
Admiral have shown that they advised Miss P by email in early February about what she
should do if she wanted any medical help and to claim any uninsured losses. They said itwas not up to them to advise her what to do about that. They said that she had motor legal
protection on her policy, and so she could contact Admirals associated lawyers, who would
advise her about those things.
Admiral are correct that it is not their responsibility to deal with any personal injury aspects of
a motor insurance claim. And they did correctly advise Miss P by email that she should
speak to their associated lawyers about those aspects. But a consumer does not necessarily
understand how the accident claims process works. Miss P was still telling Admiral that she
remained troubled by the incident and in pain. So I think it should have been clear to Admiral
from what Miss P was saying that she didnt understand that she should contact the lawyers
about that. And so I think that Admiral should have done more to explain to Miss P that she
should contact their associated lawyers and why.
I think that Admirals failure to deal effectively with these two matters has caused Miss P
distress and inconvenience.
My provisional decision 
For the above reasons its my provisional decision that Admiral Insurance Company Limited
should compensate Miss P an additional £150, on top of what they have already offered 
her.
In response to my provisional decision, Miss P replied wanting us to obtain a recording of the 
call she says she made to Admiral when she first reported the incident. But as I said in my 
provisional decision, Admiral say they dont have that call and they think she called someone 
impersonating them.  Its not in their interest to deny that Miss P called them, because an 
insurer wants to know about an incident as soon as possible, so they can deal with a claim 
right away. So I see no persuasive reason why Admiral would pretend about this. 
Admiral replied to my provisional decision showing us that they had sent Miss P a letter in 
which they explained their investigation into the information shed given them about the call 
she thought shed made to Admiral. This covered why Admiral thought that Miss P must 
have spoken to someone impersonating them and why this may have happened. I think that 
was reasonable of them and I wouldnt expect them to do any more. And so I dont think that 
warrants any compensation from them about that matter.
In their response to my provisional decision Admiral repeated that they are not required to 
deal with or provide any advice to a customer about making a personal injury claim or to do 
anything about Miss Ps wellbeing. They repeated that theyd sent her details about who he 
could contact about making a personal injury claim via her motor legal protection. But 
theyve also shown us that after that she called them saying she was still having a problem 
with her health due to the accident.
Im not suggesting that Admiral should have evaluated Miss Ps health. Its rather that what 
Miss P said about her health should have suggested to Admiral that she still didnt 
understand about her options about a personal injury claim. And it should reasonably have 
prompted them to do more to inform her about the options she had under her policy to make 
a claim for that. So at that point it would have been reasonable for Admiral to remind her 
about that, but they failed to do so, and this caused her distress and inconvenience. And so I 
think that they should pay her £100 for that. 
Putting things right
This means that I make a minor change to my provisional decision and I require Admiral to 
pay Miss P £100 in compensation, on top of what they have paid her.  My final decision
For the above reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I require Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss P an additional £100 in compensation.*  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
* If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Miss P how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
