DRN-4314358
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds (Tescos) proposed settlement 
of a claim she made for jewellery that was stolen during a burglary at her property. 
What happened
In March 2022, Mrs Ms home was burgled and approximately 70 items of jewellery were 
stolen. Some of the items had sentimental value for Mrs M, including her mothers 
engagement and wedding rings, and some were gifts dating back to her 21st birthday, for 
which no receipts are available. 
Mrs M contacted Tesco to notify them of her claim for the stolen jewellery. She was told that 
before the claim could be validated, Mrs M needed to provide proof of ownership of the 
stolen items, such as photographs, receipts, valuations, bank statements, guarantee cards 
and so on. 
However, as Mrs M didnt have any photographs or receipts to prove her ownership of, or 
the value of the jewellery, Tesco advised her that it was unable to proceed with her claim. 
Mrs M wrote to Tesco in December 2022 to express how disappointed she was with its claim 
decision. She explained that the more expensive items were given to her by her late parents 
for her 18th and 21st birthdays, and by her husband in the early stages of their relationship. 
The items taken included gifts from family and friends throughout the last forty years. The 
lack of photographic evidence was explained by the fact that Mrs M and her husband had 
not gone out very often, so there werent many opportunities to take photographs. Her letter 
concluded by saying that Mrs M and her husband felt very hurt that their claim had been 
turned down due to there being no photographs of the items. Mrs M said she never would 
have thought about photographing her jewellery.
Mrs M complained to Tesco about the way theyd proposed to settle her claim and received 
their final response letter in February 2023, not upholding her complaint. 
In March 2023, Mrs M obtained some photos of her wearing various items of the jewellery 
shed claimed for, from friends and family, and forwarded those to Tesco. She indicated on 
each photo what the piece of jewellery was, for example, ring, bracelet etc.  
On 10 April 2023, Tescos loss adjuster offered Mrs M £6,574.86 (having deducted the £350 
excess) in settlement of her claim for 27 items (from a list of 76) that she had been able to 
provide photographs of. 
Mrs M replied to say that she was declining the offer as her policy offered cover for jewellery 
up to £15,000. In her letter to Tesco, she said that she was shocked when the loss adjusters 
valued the jewellery at £29,000 which was far more than what she was insured for. She said 
at the time that she wasnt expecting to get anything more than she was insured for. When 
taking out the policy she says she didnt once ever think of the cost of the jewellery going up 
in price as a lot of the items had sentimental value for her. 
In response to Tescos offer, Mrs M also said the policy wording Tesco had highlighted to 
her didnt state that photographs of all items must be provided. She said that she had 
provided photographs of her wearing the jewellery for almost half of the items, which Mrs M 
felt was substantial proof.
Tescos loss adjuster responded by offering revised sum of £6,796.60 (which included an 
additional £221.74).
Unhappy with the way Tesco had dealt with her claim, Mrs M brought her complaint to this 
service. She said the policy terms didnt say there had to be photographic evidence of each 
and every item and she believed no-one would have photographs of them wearing every 
piece of jewellery they owned.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and issued a view upholding the 
complaint. He explained that Tescos request for photographs of the items was fair. 
However, he said that where a claim is for a large number of items, it would be rare that this 
service would consider it fair for an insurer to insist on proof of ownership for everything that 
was being claimed for. He concluded that Mrs M had been honest with her claim and should 
be compensated in part for the items where no proof of ownership was obtainable. He 
concluded that as there was an element of underinsurance, and as only 27 of the 76 items 
had been evidenced, a fair resolution of the complaint and claim could be achieved by Tesco 
paying Mrs M half of the balance of the limit of cover, bringing the total settlement of the 
claim to £10,898.30.
Tesco didnt agree with our investigator and requested an ombudsmans decision on the 
complaint. In summary, it said that in view of the validation and underinsurance issues, 
theyd followed guidance from their underwriters, suppliers and this services technical 
helpdesk and had done everything it should have on the claim. Tesco says it paid out on 
what was validated as per the recommendations it received.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I will explain why, by first setting out 
the relevant policy terms and conditions.
Page 21 of the policy terms and conditions, under the heading: Contents cover specifies: 
6. Theft or attempted theft
On page 8 of the policy terms and conditions, under the heading: How we settle your claim, 
paragraph 4 says: 
The most we will pay for any one claim for valuables.is the maximum claim limit 
shown in your schedule.
Valuables is defined on page 6 as: 
Jewellery, watches, items of gold, silver and any other precious metal, stamp, coin or 
medal collections, pictures, other works of art and furs.
The insurance schedule included the following limit: Maximum for all items of valuables in the home £15,000.
On page 7 of the policy terms and conditions, paragraph 6, under the heading: Claim 
conditions  what you need to do, it says:
6. You must cooperate with us fully in providing information and assistance to 
investigate and validate your claim. We will require proof of ownership and/or proof of 
loss (e.g. receipts, valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee 
cards). We will only ask you to provide information and assistance that is relevant to 
your claim.
So, the theft of the jewellery was covered by the policy, up to the limit of £15,000, subject to 
proof of ownership and proof of loss being provided to Tesco.
For any insurance claim its a requirement for the policyholder to show that they have a valid 
claim. It is accepted that the burglary occurred (evidenced by the PSNI reference number), 
so the remaining question is whether Mrs M has shown that she owned the items she 
claimed for. 
Mrs M has provided photographic evidence to satisfy Tesco of her ownership of 
approximately £6,800 worth of the jewellery shes claimed for. In agreeing to pay that sum to 
Mrs M, I would initially conclude that Tesco have acted in accordance with the policy terms, 
in partially settling her claim. 
But where an insurer seeks to decline a claim, or part of a claim because it doesnt think the 
policyholder has provided sufficient proof of ownership or value, I need to decide whether 
that claim decision is fair in the circumstances of the complaint. Having considered all of 
Mrs Ms circumstances, I dont think Tesco have acted fairly and reasonably in declining to 
cover any item of jewellery that Mrs M has not been able to provide photographic or other 
evidence to support her claim. I will explain why.
The general position taken by this service is that while there is a duty on policyholders to 
provide some form of proof of ownership or purchase (as is also set out in paragraph six of 
the claim conditions quoted above) there will be circumstances where it isnt fair for insurers 
to require proof to be provided for every item being claimed for. As our investigator 
explained, this is because even the most careful policyholder wont usually be able to prove 
the purchase or ownership of every single item they own. 
In Mrs Ms case, the jewellery that was stolen had been gifted to her or purchased over a 
period of more than 40 years. Mrs M also explained that she didnt have a lot of opportunities 
to be photographed wearing her jewellery, as they didnt often go out.
Photographic evidence was provided of most of the large value items, including a gold ring 
with three diamonds, and two sapphire and diamond engagement rings. Photographs of a 
further 24 items of jewellery were also provided. If a consumer has been able to provide 
proof of ownership for a number of high value items and the items they are claiming for are 
consistent with the other contents in their property and their overall lifestyle, then we think it 
is fair, and in line with good industry practice, for the insurer to not insist on proof of 
ownership being provided for every individual item. 
However, Tesco has applied a strict burden of proof to Mrs Ms claim on the basis that she 
hasnt been able to evidence the majority of the items claimed for. I think this is an 
unreasonable approach to take in this case, given Mrs Ms circumstances. Where an insurer 
has concerns about the items being claimed for not being consistent with the consumers 
lifestyle, or where there are any questions of potential dishonesty, it might be justified in imposing a strict burden of proof. But I dont think that is warranted in Mrs Ms case, 
particularly where there were no suspicious circumstances surrounding the claim.
The experts validation report, prepared for Tesco, dated 20 April 2022, valued 76 items at a 
total of £29,884, with a discounted value of £16,200. The report noted they had received no 
proof of ownership to support the claim and also noted that the total values indicated 
underinsurance. The assessed values were based on replacement through the personal 
jewellery service which would replace the items to the same specifications, however it also 
noted that Mrs M had confirmed that she wasnt looking to replace the jewellery.
In the loss adjusters report, they confirmed they had no concerns about the theft being 
genuine nor about the honesty of Mrs M. I also think it reasonable for Mrs M to have 
amassed a large number of items of jewellery over a period of 40 years, and the items seem 
to comprise a collection of jewellery that would likely be owned by a person in Mrs Ms 
circumstances. Based on what Ive seen, I think it would be reasonable to believe all of the 
items stolen were of a similar quality or value to the ones Tesco has already accepted. 
So, I think Tesco have unfairly settled Mrs Ms claim by only including items that she has 
been able to provide photographic evidence of. However, I do need to bear in mind that 
Mrs M has not provided evidence for two-thirds of the items she has claimed for. 
Approximately one-third of the items have been evidenced. But given a number of the 
remaining items were of lesser value, and in the absence of any circumstances to suggest 
items have been dishonestly claimed for, I think that Tesco needs to increase its offer to 
settle the claim.
I note that Tescos experts made Mrs M aware that she was underinsured, but Tesco didnt 
seek to apportion her claim nor take retrospective action in relation to the underinsurance. 
Im also mindful that two-thirds of the items cant be evidenced, with Mrs M not even being 
able to provide a description of the item (as was requested by Tescos agent). So that does 
make it difficult for a value to be given for the excluded items. 
Our investigator suggested an approach to settling this claim and complaint that I think is 
reasonable in the circumstances. Although the jewellery was valued at approximately 
£29,000, the limit of cover provided by the policy is £15,000. Tesco agreed to pay £6,796.60 
leaving approximately £8,200 of the limit of cover available to meet the claim. Mrs M 
believes that the £15,000 ought to be paid by Tesco. However, the £15,000 doesnt 
represent a guaranteed payment; rather, it is the upper limit that Tesco will pay for items that 
can reasonably be included in the claim.
In this case, our investigator suggested that Tesco increase the settlement offer by half of 
the remaining limit of indemnity, giving a total settlement sum of £10,898.30. In some 
circumstances we might suggest that a claim be re-considered by the insurer, however, in 
this case, there is no new evidence for Tesco to take into account. Having considered all of 
the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Tescos application of a strict burden of 
proof provides a fair outcome for Mrs M, or a fair settlement of her claim. Given the lack of 
specific evidence regarding the individual items of jewellery, I think our investigators 
approach provides a fair and reasonable way to settle this claim and complaint. I therefore 
uphold this complaint and require Tesco to settle Mrs Ms claim as set out below.
Putting things right
Tesco Underwriting Limited should pay Mrs M £10,898.30 (having already deducted the 
£350 excess) in settlement of her claim. 
I am not awarding 8% interest in this case because I can see that Tesco Underwriting Limited has worked with Mrs M to try and achieve a resolution of her claim and I dont think, 
in these circumstances, there was an apparently straightforward pathway to fairly settle the 
claim.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Underwriting Limited to 
pay the award detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman