DRN-3995875
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that National Westminster Bank Plc has unfairly charged them a 
high rate of interest on their mortgage account. 
What happened
In 2009 Mr and Mrs R took out an offset mortgage with NatWest. They borrowed £259,029 
inclusive of fees. The mortgage was agreed on an interest only basis over a term of 
18 years. A variable rate of interest was applicable for the term of the mortgage. 
In 2020 Mr and Mrs R complained about being charged what they considered to be an 
unfairly high rate of interest on their mortgage. They said theyve been unable to switch rates 
with NatWest over the years or remortgage with a different lender due to their 
circumstances.  
An investigator at our service looked into things and upheld the complaint. NatWest said that 
it didnt offer fixed interest rates on its offset mortgages, but it could consider an application 
from Mr and Mrs R for a core mortgage. NatWest said although Mr and Mrs R would need to 
go through the usual advised mortgage application process including undergoing an 
affordability assessment  the outcome of their application wouldnt be reliant on 
affordability.  
The investigator thought NatWest needed to do more in the circumstances. He thought that 
NatWest should have made it possible for Mr and Mrs R to switch to a fixed interest rate on 
a core mortgage sooner. He recommended that NatWest should re-work Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage account by applying a backdated fixed interest rate. The exact rate would depend 
on product availability at the time in question (from the point when Mr and Mrs R first 
enquired about switching deals) and their preferred product(s) amongst the range.
To account for the overpayments made to date, due to higher variable rate being applied, 
our investigator recommended that NatWest refund the difference to Mr and Mrs R after 
applying the new rate and apply 8% simple interest from the date of each overpayment 
to the date of settlement.
Both parties accepted the resolution. But Mr and Mrs R were subsequently unhappy with 
how NatWest has calculated and applied the settlement. Despite out investigators attempts 
to explain why he thought the settlement was in line with his recommendation, Mr and Mrs R 
remained unhappy and asked for the case to be decided by an ombudsman.
Since raising this complaint, Mr and Mrs R have raised other reasons why theyre unhappy 
with the service theyve received from NatWest. Our investigator has explained why my 
decision will only focus on the initial complaint raised and the next steps Mr and Mrs R need 
to take if they want to pursue any new complaints.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The original complaint issue has been resolved in this case. Both parties have accepted the 
investigators recommendations. The remaining issue for me to decide is whether NatWest 
has settled this case fairly in relation to the redress due. 
Its not the role of our service to forensically audit any calculation breakdown to establish 
specifically how the figures have been reached. Its my role to decide if NatWest has applied 
the general principles correctly when settling the complaint and whether the settlement 
seems fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case, which I think it does, for 
reasons Ill explain. 
NatWest has conducted its rework of the offset account from January 2018, which it says is 
the earliest Mr and Mrs R enquired about switching their mortgage rate. To account for the 
overpayments made since then, depending on Mr and Mrs Rs preference, NatWest should 
(in line with the general principles for settling a complaint of this nature) either:
Apply the overpayments to their mortgage account to further reduce their balance 
which will in turn reduce the amount of interest they pay on the new interest applied
until the end of the current fixed term period; or
Pay Mr and Mrs R the overpayment amount back in cash, as well as a payment of 
8% simple interest* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If NatWest considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs R how
much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing this if they ask for
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
In January 2008 Mr and Mrs R were paying interest at 4.00% on their variable offset 
mortgage until September 2018, at which point the interest rate increased to 4.25% until the 
date of redemption in March 2022.
NatWest calculated the rework of the account based on the following backdated rates:
Two-year fixed rate of 2.69% from 29 January 2018 to 31 December 2019.
Two-year fixed rate of 2.25% from 1 January 2020 to 14 March 2022.
In March 2022 Mr and Mrs R switched to a core mortgage and agreed to a rate of 1.39% 
fixed for five years. 
Based on this, NatWest calculated that Mr and Mrs R had been overcharged £18,908.74 in 
interest when considering the difference between the rate they paid on the offset mortgage 
from January 2018 and the rates they should have paid, until March 2022, as above.
On an interest only mortgage (as is the case here) where a customer is only making 
payments to cover the interest charged and not the capital, the calculation is generally more 
straight forward than it would be, had this been a repayment mortgage. When carrying out a 
rework of this nature on an interest only mortgage, what the customer is overcharged in 
interest is theoretically what theyve overpaid and what they should get back. 
However, in Mr and Mrs Rs case, although theyd been charged £18,908.74 more in interest 
than they should have been, NatWest calculated that they had in fact only overpaid by 
£16,295.40 after reworking the account and applying the lower interest rates. The difference between these two amounts could arise for several reasons  including, but 
not limited to how the offset mortgage account was being utilised, or as a result of the 
arrears which had accrued on Mr and Mrs Rs account over the years due to late or missed 
payments, which would in turn also attract subsequent fees, including additional interest on 
the increased balance. 
As set out previously, Mr and Mrs R could choose between having the overpayment amount 
of £16,295.40 added to their mortgage account or refunded back to them in cash. They 
chose the latter. I can confirm, in no circumstances would they receive both as that would 
result in a double award. 
As Mr and Mrs R opted for the overpayment amount to be paid to them directly, NatWest 
carried out the readjustment of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage account (which included a credit of 
£18,908.74) and then deducted the overpayment amount of £16,295.40 from their mortgage 
which was paid to their personal bank account along with 8% simple interest calculated at 
£2,763.65. 
As explained, our service doesnt provide an auditing service. I have, however, examined the 
records of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage accounts and the calculation information provided by 
NatWest. Having done so, I find nothing to suggest that NatWest hasnt applied the broad 
principles correctly when settling this complaint. 
I hope my explanation provides some assurance to Mr and Mrs R. If Mr and Mrs R want 
further clarity about how the specific calculations have been reached, they are free to have 
their account and NatWests calculations examined by an independent accounting or 
checking service. Such a service is likely to be able to run through their account in detail. 
Mr and Mrs R would need to meet the cost of any check themselves.
Putting things right
Based on what Ive seen, NatWests calculations seem reasonable, and it has settled this 
complaint in the way Id expect. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
expect National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything more to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman