DRN-3517867
The complaint
Mr W complains that Jarvis Investment Management Limited bought back shares hed sold 
at a loss without his permission.
What happened
Mr W has a trading account with Jarvis. In August 2020 he purchased 1,240 shares in 
Company A. In December 2020 there was a corporate action affecting the shares in 
Company A. This was a share consolidation  that is that every 100 shares would be 
consolidated into one share. Mr W wasnt told about this corporate action.
On 21 December Mr W still had 1,240 shares in his trading account. The price of the shares 
were significantly higher. Mr W sold his shares and expected to receive over £5,000. On 22 
December, Jarvis said it realised an error had occurred and Mr Ws trading account hadnt 
been updated. As he shouldve only had 12 shares, Jarvis bought back 1,228 shares. The 
share price had increased so Mr W was left owing Jarvis around £1,400 with no shares in 
Company A. Mr W complained about this.
Jarvis explained that the error was caused by CREST  the electronic share registrar. It said 
it had asked CREST to reimburse Mr W for his losses but it didnt do so. Jarvis said its terms 
set out that it isnt responsible for any losses caused by third parties. It has continued to 
charge Mr W interest on the money he owes it due to this action. Jarvis also felt that it was 
unreasonable for Mr W to believe his holding had increased so much overnight.
Our Investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She explained that Jarvis shouldnt 
seek to exclude its liability if it isnt in the clients best interest. In this case she said she 
accepted there was an error caused by CREST, but that Mr W doesnt have a relationship 
with CREST. He is a customer of Jarvis and the trade he placed on was on Jarvis platform  
that displayed incorrect information. The Investigator felt that Jarvis is in a better position to 
seek any losses it incurs due to the error but by buying back shares at a loss, and charging 
Mr W the loss Jarvis is protecting itself rather than Mr W.
Our Investigator also explained that had Mr W queried his holding and the stock price hed 
likely have received the same misinformation that was on the platform. He believed he held 
1,240 shares, he hadnt been told anything differently. And if hed looked at the share price it 
was accurate. Given Jarvis says it hadnt been made aware by CREST of the issue with 
consolidation, its likely Jarvis wouldve confirmed Mr Ws shareholding and the price. So she 
felt the transaction wouldve gone ahead even if Mr W had queried it.
The Investigator recommended Jarvis compensates Mr W for the loss. In this case she 
recommended that his shareholding be reinstated  as 12 shares -  and cancel Mr Ws debt. 
This would put him in the position hed have been in had the error not occurred.
Both Mr W and Jarvis disagreed with the Investigators findings and asked for an 
Ombudsman to reach a decision. Mr W would like the full value of the trade he placed  over 
£5,000. Jarvis said it carried out the instructions of Mr W and it was this instruction that 
caused him the loss, not Jarvis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the Investigator for similar reasons. Im upholding this complaint 
and Ill explain why.
Its not disputed that there was an error. The share consolidation was effective from 21 
December 2020  when Mr W made the trade  but it didnt show in Mr Ws account. Jarvis 
has explained, and provided evidence to show, that the delay in consolidating the shares on 
the platform was due to information from CREST.
I first want to explain to Mr W that he should never have had 1,204 shares when he sold 
them at the price he did on 21 December 2020. I appreciate he would like the full value of 
that trade but its something that wouldnt be right. He should have only had 12 shares at 
that time. So, Ill now turn to whether I think Jarvis couldve done more.
Jarvis is the nominee of Mr Ws shares. That is, that its the legal owner of the electronic 
shares. So, Mr W is entitled to rely on information he gets from Jarvis on this matter. Jarvis 
has said throughout that the error lies with CREST and that its terms limit its liability when 
the loss has been caused by a third party. But in this case, CREST is the share registry 
system. Mr W doesnt have a relationship with CREST and should be allowed to rely on 
information Jarvis gives him. Jarvis didnt tell Mr W about the corporate action  despite 
evidence suggesting it knew about it - so to Mr W, he was making a transaction he believed 
he was entitled to make.
Jarviss platform displayed incorrect information  this isnt in dispute. I understand it relies 
on the information it receives from CREST but as nominee it had access to the relevant 
information to know the holding hadnt consolidated in the way it was supposed to. I 
appreciate that it took Mr W making the trade for Jarvis to realise this but I dont agree that 
Mr W should be responsible for the loss in this case. Jarvis has explained throughout that it 
bought back the shares in a timely manner when it realised, on 22 December 2020, that 
something had gone wrong. And I agree it did this, but I cant agree that Mr W should bear 
this loss. The trade was executed based on misinformation showing on Jarviss platform. It 
needs to take responsibility, as nominee, for the information it gives to its customers.
Jarvis has argued that the loss was caused by Mr Ws actions. To some extent this is true, 
its the trade he made that caused the overall loss  but I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Mr W to make this trade. He did so on misinformation provided on Jarviss platform and I 
think Jarvis excluding itself from any liability isnt in the best interests of its client in this case. 
Mr W has no recourse to CREST, and his trade was able to go through because of what was 
displayed on Jarviss platform. Jarvis, as nominee, had the ability to know there had been an 
error and I cant see it did anything to stop the trade or reverse the trade. It simply bought 
back the oversold shares at a loss to Mr W. I can also see its continued to apply interest to 
the debt Mr W owes it. I dont think its fair or reasonable for Jarvis to be excluded from 
liability when it was its platform that displayed incorrect information and allowed Mr Ws trade 
to be executed.
I have considered Jarviss argument that the increase in share price shouldve alerted Mr W 
to question the trade. In this case Ive thought about Mr Ws circumstances and his trading 
account. I think its likely that had Mr W questioned his share price in Company A, hed have 
found the same information that the share price had increased. I also think if hed called 
Jarvis about it, hed have been told his shareholding was 1,204 and the price of the shares was what he was seeing  this is because Jarvis maintains it wasnt aware of an issue with 
the consolidation until 22 December 2020, the day after Mr W placed his trade. So, I dont 
think this trade wouldve been avoided and I dont agree that Mr W was trying to exploit an 
obvious error  as I dont think this was obvious to Mr W.
If the error hadnt occurred, I dont think its likely Mr W wouldve sold his shares. So, Jarvis 
needs to put Mr W in the position hed have been in had this been the case. I understand 
that this may come at a cost to Jarvis. But Ive explained why I think Jarvis should bear 
responsibility for Mr Ws losses, despite the overall error being caused by a third party. 
Jarvis can then explore its own options to recoup its losses through the third party.
Putting things right
Jarvis Investment Management Limited must do the following:
- Cancel the debt on Mr Ws account that is associated with this particular trade 
(including the interest Jarvis has applied to that debt).
- Purchase 12 shares in Company A for Mr W at no cost to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Jarvis Investment Management 
Limited must follow the instructions Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman