DRN-2138302
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy HSBC Bank UK Plc (HSBC) hasnt reimbursed him for his losses after he 
transferred money to an investment company that turned out to be a scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much detail 
here. Mr R has explained he has been the victim of a scam and was tricked into sending the 
following payments to someone he believed to be an investment company:
25 April 2019 £5,000
3 June 2019 £9,500
Mr R made the payments online and feels HSBC shouldve noticed they were unusual, 
blocked them and contacted him to make further enquiries. Had it done so it wouldve 
discovered the payments were being made to an account that wasnt held in the name of the 
investment company hed thought he was dealing with and the scam wouldve been 
uncovered. He also felt HSBC shouldve done more to try and recall the funds when he 
reported the scam to it. 
HSBC didnt agree it should have done more in this case so Mr R asked our service to look 
into things. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They felt that:
Although HSBC shouldve made enquiries into the transfers, they didnt think this 
wouldve alerted Mr R or HSBC to the scam or prevented it
They agreed HSBC hadnt recalled funds as quickly as it should have, but as the 
receiving bank didnt cooperative when the request was made, they didnt think this 
delay had impacted the situation or prevented retrieval of the funds
As Mr R didnt accept their findings the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should HSBC have done more to prevent the transfers Mr R made?
Theres no dispute the transfers Mr R made were authorised payments even though he was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam. He made the payments himself and under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, and so Mr R is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar 
with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Having considered Mr Rs account statements I can see that the transfer of £5,000 he made 
on 25 April 2019 was for significantly more than any other transaction on the account, aside 
from transfers to and from his own savings account. I can also see this transfer was being 
made to a new payee and an overseas account. I think both this payment and the payment 
of £9,500 he made later were unusual enough that I wouldve expected HSBC to have 
identified, stopped and contacted Mr R to make further enquiries into what they were for. 
Would HSBCs intervention have made a difference?
Mr R has said that had HSBC contacted him, it wouldve recognised the scam and prevented 
him from making further transfers. But based on the available evidence and the balance of 
probabilities, Im not persuaded this is what wouldve happened.
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I think its reasonable to expect HSBC should have had 
an awareness of investments scams, how they might work and systems in place to try and 
protect its customers from them. 
I see no reason Mr R wouldnt have told HSBC he was making an investment if theyd asked 
after identifying either of the unusual transactions Ive mentioned above. After all, he thought 
he was investing in a genuine company. And after ascertaining this, there are a number of 
enquiries Id have reasonably expected HSBC to make after identifying an unusual transfer 
like this and if Mr R had told them he was investing the money. For example, the bank could 
have asked if he was cold-called, how he came across the company and what returns hed 
been promised to see if any of the answers mirrored what the bank ought to have known 
about the way investment scams tend to be perpetrated. 
I think there is also information HSBC ought reasonably to have given Mr R when it was 
making these enquiries. For example, I think it ought to have warned Mr R that fraudsters can and do try and pass themselves off as existing regulated investment companies. I also 
think it ought to have drawn his attention to the FCA website, specifically the information on 
avoiding fraudulent investment scams including its fraud warning list. 
HSBC has referred to a warning that wouldve appeared when Mr R made the payment, but I 
dont think this wouldve alerted Mr R to a problem or prompted him to think twice as it didnt 
mirror what he was doing. It was a general warning that didnt mention anything about 
investment scams or cloned firms.
But, Im not persuaded, on balance, that had it provided generic information about the fact 
these type of scams exist or that, even when making specific enquiries with Mr R, HSBC 
likely wouldve been given reasonable cause for concern. 
Mr R has said the investment company was recommended to him by a trusted family 
member whod already made a number of investments. He tells us he carried out his own 
checks which, given everything Ive seen, mightve included checking the FCA register. 
Which suggests to me some understanding of the importance of dealing with a genuine, 
reputable firm. And the FCA didnt add any warnings to its website about the genuine 
investment firm having been cloned until after Mr R made his last transfer.  
As well as the assurance from a trusted family member, Mr R had also been given 
persuasive literature and contracts relating to the investments he thought he was making 
and the rate of return wasnt so unrealistic that I think it wouldve given HSBC reasonable 
doubt about its authenticity. So, overall, its clear he was persuaded the transactions were 
genuine and I think it wouldve taken more than standard fraud warnings to persuade him not 
to continue or alert him to the scam.
Ive also thought about whether anything else at this point ought to have alerted HSBC to the 
scam, but Im not persuaded it shouldve. As Ive mentioned, the FCA wasnt aware of the 
fact the original investment company had been cloned and didnt place a warning on the 
register until after Mr R made his last transfer. So when HSBC shouldve enquired about the 
activity on Mr Rs account, there was no other information or additional checks HSBC 
couldve carried out at that time that wouldve given it reasonable cause to believe Mr R was 
the victim of a scam. 
Ive considered whether I think it wouldve been reasonable grounds for concern that Mr R 
was making transfers to an overseas bank account or that the account was in a different 
name to the company he thought he was dealing with. But I think Mr R had a plausible 
explanation for sending the money overseas and there are legitimate reasons a customer 
might do this. So I dont think this alone wouldve been enough to alert HSBC to a scam in 
this particular case. And overall, its not unusual for scammers to coach victims into giving 
cover stories for the payments theyre making. I think its more likely than not that if the 
bank had prompted Mr R to ask about the bank account being in a different company name 
or probed more about the payment being made to overseas account I think the scammers 
wouldve provided a plausible and persuasive explanation for this.
Having considered everything very carefully I dont think its more likely than not that an 
intervention from HSBC wouldve prevented Mr R from continuing to make transfers to a 
company he thought to be genuine.
Did delays caused by HSBC prevent recovery of the funds?Mr R told HSBC hed been a victim of fraud on 26 June 2019. Once it had discovered this I 
wouldve expected it to act immediately in trying to recover the funds from the beneficiarys 
bank account. HSBC didnt do this and requests were made several days after the fraud was 
reported. But, despite what Mr R says, I dont think this delay prevented the successful 
return of the funds.
Upon receiving the recall request the beneficiarys bank in Singapore contacted the 
beneficiary who stated fraud hadnt taken place and Mr R had received the services hed 
paid for. As such the matter became a civil dispute and beneficiarys bank wouldnt intervene 
further at that stage. Theres nothing more I wouldve expected HSBC to have done to try 
and retrieve the funds.
I havent seen anything to suggest this answer wouldve been different had HSBC made the 
request earlier so Im not persuaded the delays caused by HSBC were the reason the funds 
couldnt be successfully returned to Mr R. Although it is unfortunate the funds couldnt be 
returned, Im satisfied HSBC fulfilled its obligations in making the requests it did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman