DRN-2430921
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd renewed her motor insurance policy 
for her campervan when shed asked for it to be cancelled. She wants a refund of the fees it 
charged.
What happened
Mrs Hs policy was due for renewal. Herts said it sent Mrs H a renewal notice giving her 
warning to contact it if she didnt want to renew her policy. Herts said it didnt receive a 
response, so the policy was renewed. Mrs H said shed replied before the renewal date 
saying that the policy wasnt needed as shed sold the van. But Herts said it hadnt received 
this email. Mrs H then called Herts and her policy was cancelled but she was charged an 
admin fee and for her time on cover. Herts offered to backdate the cancellation if Mrs H 
provided evidence that the van had been sold before the renewal date. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Herts 
had warned Mrs H of the impending cancellation. And he couldnt see evidence that shed 
cancelled this before the renewal date. He thought its charges were fair and reasonable and 
in keeping with Herts Terms of Business. He thought Mrs H hadnt provided sufficient 
evidence to show that the van had been sold before the policy renewed. 
Mrs H replied that a company had taken the van to be sold. She said shed provided emails 
showing that the van had been sold before renewal. She said shed not received warning 
that the policy was due for renewal. Mrs H asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs H feels frustrated that her van was sold and yet her policy was 
renewed. And when she then cancelled the policy, she was charged £70. Our approach in 
cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with the terms of business 
and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Herts Terms of Business explain the renewal process. This is stated on pages 
7 to 8:
Automatic renewals
For your protection, we reserve the right to automatically renew your policy up to five 
working days prior to the renewal date and take payment by the same payment method as 
this year. If we exercise this right we will write to you prior to the renewal date, informing you 
how much the premium will be and giving you time to let us know if you wish to opt out of the 
automatic renewal process
If we automatically renew a policy and you did not opt out of the automatic renewal process, 
you will need to provide proof of alternative cover or that the vehicle has been SORN, sold or 
scrapped, you may be liable for charges for time whilst cover was in force.
Mrs H said she hadnt received a renewal warning notice from Herts. But I can see that it 
was emailed to the correct address and so I cant say it wasnt sent. Mrs H said the first time 
she was aware of the pending renewal was from an email three days beforehand. She said 
her husband had replied to this email saying that they didnt want to renew. Herts said it 
didnt receive this email. Ive looked at what Mrs H has provided. The emails text was:
We do not want to renew. We sold the camper. Please cancel down this policy.
And I can see that Mr H sent this email cancelling the policy to Mrs H, not to Herts. So it 
looks like an error was made by Mr H. And so Herts continued with the renewal and the 
policy went live. 
Mrs H noticed the premium had been taken from her account and contacted Herts to cancel 
the policy. She was then charged £70. I can see that this included Herts non-refundable 
admin fee of £37.50. This is set out in the Terms of Business, and so I think this deduction 
was fair and reasonable. And it also included £32.50 which was the policy underwriters 
change for cover, which is also explained in the Terms of Business. So I cant say that Herts 
needs to make Mrs H any refund.
Herts offered to ask the underwriter to backdate the cancellation if Mrs H provided proof that 
the van had been sold before renewal. I think thats in keeping with the paragraph set out 
above about automatic renewals. Mrs H provided an email chain of correspondence with the 
company that sold the van for them. But Herts wouldnt accept this as it was editable. I cant 
say that this was unfair or unreasonable. Mrs H also provided a letter from the DVLA, but 
this was dated after renewal. 
So I think Mrs H hasnt provided Herts with reasonable evidence to prove that the van was 
sold before renewal. And so I cant say that it was unreasonable for Herts to not refund 
charges for time on cover, as stated in the Terms of Business.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman