DRN-4074947
The complaint
Ms F complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont remove her details from a fraud database.
What happened
Barclays contacted Ms F to let her know her account was blocked and under review because 
of payments shed received. Barclays invited Ms F to explain where the money had come 
from and what it was for.
Barclays then wrote to Ms F to tell her it was closing her account with no notice.
Ms F complained to Barclays and it sent a final response saying it wouldnt remove the fraud 
database loading it had made. Barclays confirmed Ms Fs account was closed with a credit 
balance, and it seems Ms F was able to withdraw the balance later.
Unhappy her details were still on a fraud database Ms F brought her complaint to this 
service. An investigator looked into things and didnt think Ms Fs complaint should be 
upheld.
The investigator said a large amount of fraudulent money had passed through Ms Fs 
account, and they couldnt see why Ms F hadnt reported this to Barclays. The investigator 
could see Ms F had contacted Action Fraud about things, but not her bank.
The investigator didnt understand why Ms F had given her card and personal identification 
number (PIN) to someone else and thought Ms F had likely benefitted from the fraudulent 
use of her account.
The investigator thought Barclays was fair in keeping Ms Fs details on a fraud database.
Ms F didnt agree. Ms F said shed provided as much evidence as she could around why the 
payments had come into her account. Ms F didnt have all the messages, and realised shed 
been naive in allowing someone else to pay into, and use, her account.
Ms F said she thought she was helping a friend and didnt know the money was fraudulent. 
Ms F also said she didnt benefit from the fraudulent money coming into her account.
Ms F asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For Barclays to fairly load, or maintain, a fraud database loading it has to be satisfied Ms F 
received fraudulent money. Barclays also has to be satisfied Ms F was somehow complicit in 
receiving this fraudulent money, so she knew it was fraudulent or benefitted from it.
Ive looked at the evidence Barclays has, and Im satisfied Ms F received fraudulent money 
into her account. The amount Ms F received was significant, over £25,000, and for a long 
period of time, between 11 February 2022 and 4 March 2022.
Ms F says she was contacted by someone she knew, and they needed to use her account to 
receive money for a car. Ms F was told it would be around £10,000 and shed just need to 
withdraw the money and give it to the person.
Ms F says she did this, withdrawing money from cash machines and handing the money 
over. Ms F then gave this person her card and PIN to access the money themselves.
Ms F says she got uncomfortable when more than £10,000 was paid in, and says she asked 
the person to stop paying in. When money continued to be credited Ms F says she continued 
to cooperate with this person to catch them out.
Ms F contacted Action Fraud and named the person she was dealing with. Ms F says she 
didnt contact Barclays because she thought Action Fraud was a higher level of reporting, so 
wouldnt need to tell her bank.
Ms F says she wasnt given an opportunity to defend herself as Barclays didnt ask her to 
explain the money coming in. And Ms F cant open an account now because of the fraud 
database loading.
Ive looked at a message Barclays received after it asked Ms F to explain the credits into her 
account. The message says the payments were for a car and she knew the person paying 
in, it was a relative of hers, and the message is signed off with Ms Fs name. I think Ms F 
was given a chance to explain the money coming into her account.
Ms F says she didnt send this message to Barclays, it was sent by the person she gave her 
card to. Whilst its possible this happened, I dont believe the message was sent without 
Ms F knowing about it.
Barclays has explained it wrote to Ms F and sent an email, explaining how to upload her 
version of events. I think Ms F must have shared the letter or email with the person she gave 
her card to, I cant otherwise see how that person would know to upload an explanation.
And this explanation is very different to what Ms F told the investigator. I cant understand 
why, if Ms F was looking to catch this person out and already suspicious of them, she 
allowed them to reply to Barclays on her behalf.
Ms F has said she initially withdrew money for this person, then gave them her card and 
PIN. Ms F says this person told her they didnt have a card, but doesnt explain why it meant 
they couldnt access their money another way, for example in branch.
It seems Ms F believed this person had an account, but was unable to access the money. 
But this doesnt explain why this person would make repeated credits to Ms Fs account. 
If the plan was to access £10,000 for a car, I cant understand why Ms F thought it wasnt 
suspicious she was receiving different, lower amounts spread over a significant time rather 
than a single payment of £10,000.And each payment had the senders name on, this name is different to the person Ms F 
reported to Action Fraud. I think it should have been clear Ms F wasnt receiving money from 
the same person she gave her card and PIN to.
Ms F says she became suspicious when more than £10,000 was paid in. But rather than 
speak to her bank to cancel the card shed given away, or explain her concerns, Ms F chose 
not to tell Barclays anything about what had happened.
Ms F contacted Action Fraud on 10 March 2022. But Ms F had received in excess of 
£10,000 long before that date. I think its more likely Ms F contacted Action Fraud after 
Barclays blocked her account, not whilst the fraudulent payments were being received.
If Ms F was looking to catch this person out, I think its more likely shed have told Action 
Fraud when the total payments went over £10,000. This was sometime in February 2022, 
but instead she didnt raise her report until the following month.
And when Barclays contacted Ms F to query the payments, rather than explain what had 
happened, and provide the Action Fraud report, it seems Ms F turned to an untrustworthy 
fraudster, someone she was already suspicious of, to explain the payments.
On balance, I think Ms F was aware the payments into her account were fraudulent. 
Because of this I think Ms F was complicit in the receipt, and use, of the fraudulent money.
The investigator said they thought Ms F likely benefitted from the money coming into her 
account. I dont think I have enough evidence to say this is right, but this doesnt change my 
thinking around Ms Fs complicity.
Because I think Ms F was complicit in receiving the fraudulent money into her account, 
Barclays was fair in loading her details to a fraud database. And because of this I wont be 
asking Barclays to remove Ms Fs details.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman