DRN-3561577
The complaint
As complaint is about a claim made on an Allianz Insurance Plc legal expenses insurance 
policy for damage to property and loss of rents.
A is represented by Mr B in this complaint.
What happened
A made a claim on an Allianz Insurance Plc legal expenses insurance policy in relation to 
a property it owned. The property was tenanted. Mr B said the tenant caused 
considerable damage to the property and owed A monies in rent.
Allianz considered the claim. They said that most of the damage to property claim didnt 
attract cover under the policy because there wasnt enough evidence to show it 
originated from a one-off event. They did however offer £1,450 in respect of what their 
loss adjuster thought amounted to damage caused by a one-off event.
Allianz also declined the loss of rent claim because the policy terms required the property 
to be rendered uninhabitable due to an insured event. Allianz thought the condition of the 
property wasnt such that it would be considered uninhabitable.
Mr B didnt agree with Allianz stance on either of the claims so referred the matter to us. 
An investigator considered the complaint. He said he thought Allianz had acted reasonably 
and there wasnt enough evidence to show that the damage being claimed for fell outside 
of wear and tear or that the property was uninhabitable. Mr B, on behalf of A, didnt agree 
so the matter was referred to me.
I considered As complaint and issued provisional findings in June 2022 as follows:
 I dont uphold As complaint. Ive explained why under the headings below.
Property Insurance and Loss of Rents claims
The starting point is the policy terms. They cover:
Specified Events
Fire, lightning, explosion, aircraft or other aerial devices or articles dropped from them, 
riot, civil commotion, strikers, locked-out workers, persons taking part in labour 
disturbances, malicious persons other than thieves, earthquake, storm, flood, escape of 
water from any tank apparatus or pipe or impact by any road vehicle or animal.
Given the claims A had made, it looks like Allianz considered them as malicious persons 
and escape of water from any tank apparatus or pipe. Thats because Mr B said the tenant 
deliberately caused damage to the property because she was seeking to devalue it, 
having made a previous offer to purchase it, which A refused. There was also an escape 
of water which was thought to have originated from the installation of a shower hose in the 
bathroom by the tenant.
Ive noted however that the policy also covers Damage which is defined as Accidental 
loss or destruction of or damage to Property Insured.
Either way, both sections exclude:
1. Damage caused by or consisting of:
a. Inherent vice, latent defect, gradual deterioration, wear and tear, frost, change 
in water table level, its own faulty or defective design or materials
On the loss of rent issue, the policy says:
Where as a result of Damage the buildings of a Residential Property are rented 
uninhabitable or access is prevented to such Residential Property the Insurer will 
indemnify the Insured in respect of..
b. The loss of rent paid or payable to the Insured by tenants for 
accommodation provided and services rendered including service and 
management charges at the Premises
during the period necessary to restore the Residential Property to a habitable condition 
or to make it accessible
Provided that
i. cover for such costs shall only apply to the extent that such costs 
are not otherwise insured
ii. the maximum period during which payment under this Extension will be made 
shall not exceed 24 calendar months from the date of the Damage unless agreed 
otherwise by the Insurer in writing
iii. the liability of the Insurer under this Extension shall not exceed in total 
30% of the Declared Value applying to the Residential Property or to the 
parts of the Residential Property Damaged.
The word uninhabitable isnt defined so Ive taken the ordinary dictionary meaning 
when considering this term- namely that the property is not safe or suitable to be lived 
in.
In September 2019 Allianz instructed a loss adjuster to consider As claims and advise on 
the outcome of them. In October 2020 the loss adjuster provided a report showing the 
problems Mr B was complaining of. Some of them were documented within the report, but 
it was noted that the policy wouldnt cover all of them. The only damage the loss adjuster 
said Allianz should potentially consider, after applying various policy excesses (£500 for 
the escape of water claim, £350 policy excess per incident for damage by tenant, and 
£100 for accidental damage) was as follows:
1. Theft of front bedroom 1 carpet
2. Damage to Bedroom 2 carpet
3. Damage to sink in bathroom
4. Stolen vinyl flooring in kitchen
The offer made on these items totalled £1,450 after the applicable excesses were 
deducted.In a separate email in March 2021 the loss adjuster also addressed the remainder of 
As claims. In summary, he said:
1. Work to windows £1,875
There appears to be no evidence of this damage occurring. I cannot see the contractor 
has specified this damage either. This is more a maintenance related issue without 
evidence to the contrary.
2. Work in respect to leaking shower £3,700 plus £800
This work included repairing the actual leaks which is not covered under the terms of 
the policy. The other works appear to be betterment, so not covered under the terms 
of the policy.
3. Downstairs Switch £75
There is no evidence of this damage or what caused it. This would also fall under 
the policy excess.
4. Drain Galley £150
This appears to be a maintenance related issue.
5. Paving £700
This appears to be a maintenance related issue.
6. Repair to the side gate £500
This appears to be a maintenance related 
issue. Other matters for which Council 
ordered
7. a) Finish plaster to ceiling
This appears to be a maintenance related issue.
b) Matter of extractor fans
This is an improvement to the property and not damaged from a fortuitous event.
c) The matter of internal mould
This appears to be a maintenance related issue.
d) Door between Kitchen and sitting 
room Not related to a fortuitous one-off 
event.
e) Broken Handbasin in Bathroom
An offer for this head of claim has already been made.
8. The Carpet £2000
This appears to be a maintenance related issue.
9. Repainting £1800
This appears to be a maintenance related issue.
10. Kitchen Lights £150
This appears to be a maintenance related issue.
11. Rent claim £750/PCM to date £3750
The claims made do not cause the property to be uninhabitable.
Mr B didnt agree with what the loss adjuster had said and thought the claims all 
represented malicious damage by the tenant so cover should be available for them. Hes 
made considerable submissions and provided several photographs showing the state of 
the property after the tenant left it. Hes also provided a statement from a local letting 
agent which says the property was uninhabitable after the tenant left as well as a condition 
report predating the tenants occupation in April 2016. Mr B also says A received an 
enforcement notice by the Council requiring some of the repairs to be carried out and as 
such Allianz should meet the cost of them.
Overall A was seeking settlement of £16,700 at the time the claim was made. Since then 
A has increased its request to roughly £46,000 excluding an award of compensation. Mr 
B says this includes the costs of rectifying the property as well as the costs of associated 
with dealing with the Councils enforcement notices (which I refer to in further detail below), the loss of rent claim and the fees incurred by A in dealing with the claim to 
Aviva.
Ive thought carefully about what both parties have said and in particular the loss adjusters 
findings as against everything Mr B has provided. I dont doubt that the property was in 
good condition when the tenant moved in. The question for me however, isnt whether the 
tenant caused the problems that needed putting right, its whether the issues attract cover 
under the policy. In order for that to be the case, theyd need to be evidence that the 
damage didnt fall into the gradual deterioration or wear and tear exclusion. Whilst Mr B 
feels strongly that the issues complained about are the consequence of malicious 
damage, I havent seen any evidence of equal standing to that of the loss adjusters report 
that conclusively supports this. An example of this might have been a report from a 
building surveyor including a commentary on the likely cause of the damage. In the 
absence of that, I dont think I can say that its more likely than not the exclusions relied 
upon by Aviva dont apply here or that Aviva were wrong to rely on the evidence theyd 
been provided with by the loss adjuster they appointed. If A wants to accept the offer Aviva 
has made to settle the claim it made, they should contact Aviva directly.
Ive also thought about what the letting agent has said in relation to the property being 
uninhabitable and weighed that up with the loss adjusters report. Whilst doing so Ive 
looked at photographs of the property after the tenant left. Whilst the situation was less 
than ideal, Im not persuaded the property was uninhabitable. By that I mean not safe or 
suitable to be lived in. It might have attracted a lesser rental income in the state it was in, 
but the policy term doesnt provide for this scenario. Rather it requires the property to be 
fully uninhabitable for a loss of rents claim to be paid so I think Allianz were entitled to turn 
down this claim on basis on the evidence they had. Had A provided something to the 
contrary from say a building surveyor, I might have reached a different conclusion.
Because I dont think Allianz have done anything wrong, I havent considered As claim for
£46,000 in any detail. It is worthy of comment however that even if I thought Allianz had 
done something wrong when making the decisions it did, we wouldnt as a service award 
many of the items A is claiming for. For example, the claim for As costs in dealing with 
matter isnt something wed award anything for even though I appreciate Mr B feels A 
incurred time in dealing with this matter that would come at a cost to it. Thats because 
wed view the time A spent in dealing with a claim as part and parcel of owning a 
tenanted property and dealing with the insurance claim that arose out of it.
Its worth noting that the policy A took out isnt a pure landlords insurance policy. So, 
whilst it does provide cover in certain circumstances, its possible A could find an 
alternative policy with a higher level of cover elsewhere thats aimed specifically at 
covering rental properties as well as the risks associated with them.
Legal Expenses Insurance Claims
The investigator didnt consider As complaint about the legal expenses insurance 
claims it made in respect of both pursuing the tenant and the enforcement proceedings 
brought against A by the local Council.
On the second claim, A thought it was wrong for the Council to issue the improvement and 
subsequent enforcement notice. So it asked Aviva for cover to challenge them. Aviva said 
it wasnt prepared to consider the claim because the policy didnt cover the situation A was 
claiming for. Rather it provided criminal prosecution defence cover and cover for damage to 
As premises.Under the damage to property section of the policy, cover extends to the pursuit of legal 
rights of A in a dispute relating to physical damage to As property caused by another 
person or organisation resulting in a proven financial loss to A.
The claim A wanted to bring was to defend or challenge proceedings brought by the local 
Council which required A as the owner of its property to do certain works to it. The action 
A intended to take wasnt to pursue its legal rights in a dispute relating to physical 
damage to its property resulting out of a proven loss. Rather it was seeking to challenge 
the Councils requirement to for it to do the works. And those works didnt amount to a 
proven financial loss. For example, there was nothing in the form of a Court Order or 
otherwise to show they were caused by or the responsibility of the tenant, even though I 
appreciate A feels strongly that this was the case. So, I think Aviva correctly declined to 
cover this claim.
A has said that whilst Allianz did agree to fund possession proceedings against the tenant, it 
said A would need to settle the claim for loss of rents. A says the settlement was based on 
recovery of only part of the sums due after the tenant agreed to vacate the property. A feels 
this didnt release Allianz from its obligation to pay for the damage the tenant caused. Ive 
already explained above why I dont think Allianz needs to do anything more than it has in 
respect of its offer to settle As claim for damage to property. I dont think outcome of the 
possession claim has any bearing on this. And that claim was covered under the legal 
expenses section of the policy which doesnt extend to covering the items A wants Allianz to 
fund.
A is also unhappy that Allianz didnt fund an action for their loss adjuster to access the 
property to assess the damage sooner. This isnt a complaint Allianz addressed in any of 
their final response letters so its not one Im able to address within this decision. Its of 
note however that the policy was limited to the specific claims Ive pointed out above. So I 
think its unlikely that an application for access to the property would fall under the 
coverage it provided.
I asked both parties to respond to my provisional decision within 14 days. Since then both 
parties have responded. Mr B has queried my reference to the policy under which A claimed 
for damage to property and loss of rents not being a pure landlords insurance policy. He 
asked for confirmation that Ive applied the correct policy terms and enclosed a copy of a 
policy schedule and policy terms he thought A was claiming on.
He also asked for more time to obtain expert evidence from someone he referred to as a 
court assessor of As property. He said this expert acted for A in the eviction proceedings 
against As tenant and inspected the property.
I agreed to an extension of a further day to allow Mr B to provide As reply. Mr B was 
unhappy about this. He said it was very unlikely he would receive a report in that time and 
asked for an extension of a further week. In response I asked the investigator to explain to 
Mr B that obtaining an expert report at this late stage isnt going to make a difference to my 
original findings. Thats because the complaint Ive been asked to address is whether Allianz 
acted unfairly in turning down As various claims. That relates to their conduct during the life 
of the claim and possibly shortly thereafter. I explained that Mr B was welcome to send that 
evidence to Allianz separately, but I wont take it into account when issuing my decision on 
this complaint.
Mr B made a number of submissions in response. Ive summarised what I think covers his 
main points in relation to my provisional decision below:
The policy A purchased was designed to cover the total losses it was claiming for;The loss being claimed for is for a lot more than Allianz is prepared to pay. For example, 
As expert agrees that it likely the damage to the kitchen ceiling was caused by the 
tenant as a result of an overflowing bath and not a leaking shower.
The tenant continued to destroy repair work to the shower resulting in an extra £800 cost 
to A. The expert gained access to the property after 12 months during the period the 
shower continued to be used by the tenant- but there was no leak from the shower into 
the kitchen.
The tenant had previously overflowed the bath and had been charged the cost of minor 
rectification because the bathroom floor covering protected the ceiling.
After As last inspection there was still a vinyl floor in the bathroom and there was 
evidence she was using the shower. There was no damage to the kitchen ceiling which 
means it was extremely unlikely the cause of that damage was due to a shower and poor 
workmanship. The total claim for this is £5,000.
The cost of the stolen floor covering is high for which A had cover under the policy.
There are missing items that have not been offered on by Allianz, namely light fittings, 
the fireplace surround, the combustion heater, window dressing which was all in As 
inspection report.
As expert says As right to loss of rent was valid and damage was caused by the tenant. 
He can confirm the property was thrashed meaning total redecoration was required. 
The property was not in a safe and hygienic condition. There was mould growing in the 
bedroom, bathroom and kitchen and the kitchen had no working lights or safe electricity. 
The smoke and air quality detectors had been removed and there was no ceiling in the 
kitchen.
Allianz acknowledged the need to remove the tenant because of the damage she was 
doing to the property but theyre not paying for the correction and consequences of the 
damage that is covered by the policy.
The excess that was charged should be for one event which is the date of regaining the 
property.
A will pursue this matter against Allianz through the Courts as Mr B is disillusioned with 
this Service.
My decision represents a cover up and denial of procedural fairness. I havent 
understood this complaint and my decision represents a total lack of expertise.
In response to Mr Bs submissions about the policy, I asked Allianz for clarity about the 
policy schedule and terms Mr B sent over to confirm their understanding of things. In my 
provisional decision I considered and determined As complaint based on two of the policies 
Mr B had provided, but I hadnt been presented with a copy of the schedule he supplied. 
Allianz confirmed the schedule was applicable to the legal expenses insurance claims I 
referred to under the section headed Legal Expenses Insurance Claims in my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that As complaint shouldnt be upheld for the same 
reasons set out within my provisional decision.
I appreciate Mr B is concerned that I havent reviewed the correct policy terms when 
deciding this complaint. I can assure him I have, but I didnt have a copy of the policy schedule he recently produced which refers to the insurances A has purchased as Property 
Owners MTA. Within that schedule I can see that several properties are covered for 
landlords contents and loss of rents. 
When I reviewed As complaint, I only had a copy of the policy terms that relate to its specific 
claims and not its policy schedule in relation to various other properties that accompany all 
the policies that sit under it. The policy I reviewed in relation to the claims I dealt with under 
the Property Insurance and Loss of Rents claims heading in my provisional decision is called 
Property Damage All Risks. Those terms appear to sit under the schedule Mr B has 
provided. The other terms I referenced are the commercial legal expenses insurance policy 
which Mr B has also provided a copy of. The relevant term Ive referenced is on page 78 of 
that document under the heading Cover Event 4 Damage to Premises. 
Allianz have told me that these specific policies apply to the claims made by A. Mr B hasnt 
challenged their applicability to the claims A has made and the policies hes provided 
accord with the terms I applied when reaching my conclusions. His concern was rather that 
Id referenced Property Damage All Risks insurance as not being a pure landlords policy. I 
can see why he thought that was wrong but as Ive explained I wasnt in receipt of the 
schedule hes now provided and my reference was to this specific policy only and not the 
group of policies A purchased when buying insurance, including the legal expenses policy 
which I have dealt with separately. 
I understand all of Mr Bs concerns about the property insurance and loss of rents claims 
and I sympathise with A about the situation it now finds itself in but as I said in my 
provisional decision, I havent been provided with any evidence of equal standing to that of 
the loss adjusters report that conclusively supports what Mr B has said other than his own 
assertions. I appreciate that he was seeking to obtain the evidence of an expert now, but I 
cant consider that because this complaint is about whether Allianz acted unfairly when 
handling As claims. For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think it did.  A is of course 
free to put any further evidence to Allianz in the form of a comparable experts report, 
should it wish to. Id expect Allianz to consider that evidence, but A should note that Allianz 
may reach the same conclusion. That is however a matter for the parties and not one that I 
can deal with in this decision.
Mr B has referred to the excess being incorrect. This wasnt an issue A raised when the 
complaint was made and its not one that Allianz have had the opportunity to address so Im 
not going to consider it at this late stage.  
 
In closing, Im sorry to hear Mr B feels my decision is unfair but I hope Ive provided a 
thorough explanation of why I dont think Allianz were wrong to decline As claims in the 
way that they did.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold As complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman