DRN-1748120
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mrs I says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1997 Mrs I took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a high street store card 
during a store visit.
The policy provided protection for Mrs I's store card payments in the event she couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy benefit was 15% of the 
outstanding account balance each month and it would pay out until Mrs I returned to work or 
the balance was paid off - whichever happened first. It cost £1.00 for every £100 Mrs I owed 
on the card.
At the time of the sale Mrs I was employed, and she initially said she was entitled to sick pay 
of six months' full pay followed by six months' half pay.  She said she had no other means 
she could've used to make her repayments, and she was in good health at the time.
AXA's records show Mrs I paid around £130 for PPI in total and the account ended in 2003.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
the available evidence showed that Mrs I chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing 
to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs I, through her representative disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs I's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Is complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
 
did Mrs I have a choice about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?Mrs I says that it was only recently she discovered she had PPI. I've therefore considered 
this point carefully. 
Having done so, I think AXA made it clear that Mrs I didn't have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant now remember this.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs I's store card application. Looking at this I can see there 
was a separate section about PPI, which required a customer to tick a box if they wanted to 
take out PPI. And in Mrs I's case she ticked the box. If Mrs I didn't want to take out PPI she 
could've left this section blank. 
I'm also mindful that the PPI premiums would've appeared on Mrs I's statement for several 
years. So if she didn't recognise what they were, I might've expected her to have queried it 
with AXA at the time.
So, overall I think Mrs I chose and agreed to take out PPI. 
the information  
AXA says it didn't recommend or give advice to Mrs I to take out PPI, and I've not seen 
anything to suggest that it did. So AXA didn't have to ensure the cover was right or suitable 
for Mrs I. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information about the policy, so 
she could make an informed decision about it.
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information AXA gave Mrs 
I about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. I also accept that because the sale took 
place in a non-financial business there wasn't likely anything that could reasonably be 
described as a conversation about PPI.
But as I found above, Mrs I chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and given her existing means it seems 
like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs I off taking 
out the cover. 
This means I dont think Mrs I has lost out as a result of having PPI, so AXA doesn't have to 
pay back to Mrs I what she paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mrs I and her representative have said - including what 
they've said about Miss I's good sick pay benefits. But these points don't change my 
decision.
I said above that I accept things didn't happen as they should have. But Mrs I appears to 
have chosen the cover, so I think she was interested in the type of cover provided. And while 
Mrs I had reasonably good sick pay, the policy would've paid out in addition to this. It also 
had the potential to clear the outstanding balance in full. So, I still think the policy was useful 
to Mrs I, and she'd have still thought the cost and benefit proposition worked for her had 
AXA done anything more - I think she'd have taken it out in any event. 
My final decision
For the reasons above I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman