DRN-3709041
The complaint
Mr M has complained about restrictions imposed by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset
Management Limited (Hargreaves Lansdown) on his SIPP (self invested personal pension).
Mr M is also unhappy with Hargreaves Lansdowns requirements to verify his address and
which has meant hes been unable to transfer his SIPP to a new provider.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 6 September 2022. In the main, for the reasons I set out, I 
didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ive repeated what I said about the background leading up to 
the complaint and my provisional findings. Ive corrected some typing errors for which I 
apologise.  
Mr M is currently living abroad. He wants to switch his SIPP to a new (UK) provider. But hes
been unable to provide the proof of address documentation that Hargreaves Lansdown
requires before it will process the transfer.
Ive set out how Mr M came to be a client of Hargreaves Lansdown in 2015 and whats
happened since. I may not have referred to every letter or communication but Ive mentioned
the key exchanges.
Mr Ms SIPP, Drawdown Account and Fund & Share Account were transferred to
Hargreaves Lansdown in 2015 as part of a bulk transfer from his previous provider who was
withdrawing from that type of business.
Mr M signed an application form on 14 September 2015 to move his SIPP to Hargreaves
Lansdown. The form showed his address  which was outside the UK. Mr M signed the
declaration which referred to Hargreaves Lansdowns terms and conditions which, in using
Hargreaves Lansdowns services, Mr M would be taken as having accepted and by which
hed be bound.
Ive seen the terms and conditions which applied at the time. Condition A2 (General
Information about [Hargreaves Lansdowns] Service) included the following:
Although we offer the same level of service and treat all transactions the same, those
dealing with us from outside of the EEA [European Economic Area] or another member state
are NOT afforded the UK legislative protections and should check their own states
legislation and tax laws before undertaking a transaction with us.
Condition A5 (Applications) included the following:
We may approach a credit reference agency to confirm your identity  and by dealing with
us you confirm that you consent to this. We may also need to seek additional information to
verify your address, in which case we may (i) delay your application; (ii) return your
application form and/or (iii) withhold settlement of any trade you have placed until we have
successfully verified your identity.
Condition A6 (Communications with you) said:
You must provide us with your permanent residential address to which we shall send all
postal correspondence. If you change your postal or email address in the future, please tell
us immediately. You accept that it is our responsibility to ensure that the postal address and
the email address we hold for you are active and up to date.
Condition A7 (Changes to the Terms) said that Hargreaves Lansdown could change the
terms by giving reasonable notice of the change which would be notified by post or email.
The terms would only be changed for certain reasons as set out. These included to reflect
current or future changes in the law, FCA (Financial Conduct Authority) rules or regulations,
to meet regulatory requirements, industry guidance or best practice and to reflect the way
Hargreaves Lansdowns services were used.
Condition A2 (general information about Hargreaves Lansdowns service) didnt include any
reference to a client residing in the UK or EEA in order to open an account. But, as Ive said
below, revised terms and conditions later introduced did. And the key features document
which Hargreaves Lansdown has produced and which it says was in use in 2015 said that
applicants must live in the UK  it included a section headed, Am I eligible? which said:
Most people are. To contribute and claim tax relief, you should be under 75 and a relevant
UK individual. You must live in the UK or EEA when you start the SIPP. How someone
qualified as a relevant UK individual was also set out.
It appears there was some discussion about the service Hargreaves Lansdown could offer
Mr M, given he wasnt a UK resident. Hargreaves Lansdowns then Chief Executive Officer
(CEO) wrote to Mr M on 23 December 2015. He said Mr Ms temporary visa status had been
interpreted by Hargreaves Lansdown as having the same implications as permanent
residency, which was a mistake. If Mr M became permanently non resident, then, although
hed be able to retain his existing investments with Hargreaves Lansdown, hed be unable to
make future contributions. The CEO said that Mr M had been deemed a temporary resident
of the country in which he was living, on the basis he had a one year residency visa. Mr Ms
application to open the SIPP was accepted.
Hargreaves Lansdown wrote to Mr M on 15 January 2016 about the transfer of his SIPP.
The letter referred to UK anti money laundering (AML) regulations which meant that clients
names and addresses had to be verified when accepting business. To avoid unnecessary
trouble to clients with a request for paper documents, Hargreaves Lansdown would attempt
to very clients details electronically via an external credit reference agency. But, as Mr M
lived abroad, that wasnt possible.
Mr M was asked to provide original or certified copies of two documents  two from List A or
one from that list and one from List B. List A includes driving licence, passport and national
identity card. List B includes utility bills or current bank statements, both less than three
months old. And the documents have to be certified. That can be by an embassy, consulate,
or high commission for the country of issue or by certain professionals as listed. Im not sure
if Mr M was able to comply with Hargreaves Lansdowns requirements at the time.
But, in any event, there was a problem in 2017. On 24 October 2017 Mr M notified
Hargreaves Lansdown of his new address in a different country. Mr Ms address was
updated and a letter sent to Mr M on 31 October 2017 setting out Hargreaves Lansdowns
requirements. The letter said Mr Ms account would be restricted until the documents were
received. Further contributions couldnt be accepted and Mr M wouldnt be able to make a
withdrawal. Hargreaves Lansdown said, as soon as acceptable identity documents were
received, the restriction would be lifted.Mr M was unhappy and wrote to the CEO on 13 November 2017. Hargreaves Lansdown
replied on 15 November 2017 saying that, to comply with AML regulations, Hargreaves
Lansdown was required to verify Mr Ms identity after a change of address. As electronic
identity checks on an overseas address couldnt be conducted, further documentation from
Mr M was required to lift the restriction on his account.
Hargreaves Lansdowns terms and conditions were updated in April 2018 to take effect from
1 July 2018. Notification of the changes was given to clients in May 2018 via the Spring 2018
Investment Report which included the following:
Weve also updated our terms and conditions. The key changes are outlined below:
Weve reduced our overseas share dealing charges.
If youre no longer permanently resident in the European Economic Area (EEA), or
stop being in the future, youll need to let us know. Thats because it might mean we
arent allowed to provide you with some services.
Condition A2 had been redrafted to include the following:
We offer a full range of services to UK residents and may be able to offer limited services
where you are resident outside the UK. You must let us know if you are not, or cease to be,
resident in the UK or the EEA and/or become resident in the USA. For these purposes you
are deemed to be resident in a country if you have lived, or move with the intention of living,
in that country for 12 months or more. We may not be able to offer some or all of our
services to you if you cease to be resident in the UK.
Mr M provided a new address (in the same country) on 22 March 2019. I think he wrote
again to the CEO. Hargreaves Lansdown replied on 27 June 2019 saying it had taken a
commercial decision not to accept business from individuals resident outside of the EEA.
The rules didnt preclude Hargreaves Lansdown from offering its services more widely but it
had chosen not to offer its services to individuals living outside of the EEA due to the
regulatory complexities involved in providing such a service.
Mr M wrote to Hargreaves Lansdown on 1 September 2020. He referred to a rights issue in
respect of a company in which he held shares in his SIPP. Because of the restrictions placed
on his SIPP, he couldnt add funds to buy new shares. He asked for the restrictions to be
unlocked or to be allowed to transfer his shares out with no cost or penalty.
Hargreaves Lansdown replied on 6 October 2020. It said Mr Ms change of address
notification was received in October 2017 and updated to a new address in March 2019.
Hargreaves Lansdown had written to Mr M about its documentation requirements but these
had never been received and his identity hadnt been verified. Hargreaves Lansdown said if
Mr M remained dissatisfied he could complain to this service.
Mr M replied on 9 October 2020. He said hed asked if he could trade normally or exit. In its
reply on 21 October 2020 Hargreaves Lansdown said he should be able to trade as he
wished. And he could transfer to a QROPS (Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension
Scheme) with no charge levied for transferring away. But the letter added:
I must stress however that prior to a transfer out of a withdrawal being processed, we must
ensure that we have completed our due diligence checks on your new address before we
can allow the transfer or the withdrawal to go ahead. As an FCA registered company, we are
obligated to verify our clients identity and address on an ongoing basis. This is set out in our
Terms and Conditions which you agreed to when opening an account with us. We are
therefore required to have sight of the aforementioned necessary certified identificationdocuments before we can allow such instructions to proceed.
In November 2020 Hargreaves Lansdown received a transfer request from another UK SIPP
provider. Mr M didnt hear further for some weeks and so chased things up. I think he also
wrote to the CEO again early 2021. Ive also seen Mr Ms email to Hargreaves Lansdown on
3 May 2021. It referred to the transfer request and attached various documents. But it seems
these werent sufficient for Hargreaves Lansdown to verify Mr Ms address and so facilitate
the transfer of his SIPP.
Ive seen that Hargreaves Lansdowns terms and conditions were further amended and
effective from 6 October 2021. I havent referred to any amendments as I dont think theyd
be relevant given that Mr Ms complaints arose before that version of the terms and
conditions came into effect.
Mr M submitted a complaint form to us in April 2021. He made detailed comments in the tell
us about your complaint section. Amongst other things, he said hed only discovered when
his account with Hargreaves Lansdown was opened that it would be restricted. That wasnt
specified in the agreement yet Hargreaves Lansdown knew he lived abroad (first in one
country before moving to another). All of his financial affairs are in the UK  he has a house
and a UK bank account and no income from outside the UK or any liability to tax other than
in the UK. He also has an unrestricted dealing account with other UK providers.
Hed been unable to take advantage of a rights issue in respect of shares held in his SIPP
because of the restrictions imposed. Hargreaves Lansdown hadnt explained properly why
he cant transfer his SIPP to a different provider and when hes already a client. Hargreaves
Lansdowns references to AML arent relevant to his situation and hes being treated unfairly
and unreasonably. He doesnt want to transfer to a QROPS but to another UK SIPP provider
who will accept the SIPP without restrictions and additional proofs of identity. His existing
dealings with Hargreaves Lansdown have been through its secure on line system but it
seems that isnt sufficient.
His transfer request was sent by post to Hargreaves Lansdown by the new provider on 11
November 2020. He hadnt heard by 18 December 2020 so he sent a reminder. He got a
message on 21 December 2020 saying that Hargreaves Lansdown was working hard on
his behalf. It wasnt until 31 January 2021 that he got an acknowledgement with proof of
identity requested. His correspondence to the CEO hasnt been answered.
Unlike other organisations, Hargreaves Lansdown wont accept an internet generated bank
statement. Hes a tenant and he cant produce a utility bill in his name (in the country in
which he lives utility bills remain in the landlords name). Airmail to and from the UK takes
over two months so it would take four or five months for a bank statement to get to
Hargreaves Lansdown. Mr M requested flexibility but Hargreaves Lansdown has demanded
certified documents which are expensive and unnecessary and not provided by the embassy
in the country hes in. He isnt a new client and Hargreaves Lansdown is discriminating
against him by making unreasonable demands and not allowing any flexibility.
To put things right, Mr M sought compensation for the restrictions placed on his account and
to transfer his SIPP without penalty. He didnt think he should have to provide what he
considered to be unnecessary proofs of identity or he should be able to provide something in
a simpler form given his circumstances.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms concerns. But for the reasons she explained she
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators views. He said the investigator hadnt asked thefinancial adviser (whod twice claimed he could definitely transfer funds to Hargreaves
Lansdown for foreign residents) or the Money Advice Service whod made enquiries of a
wealth management firm whod confirmed that Hargreaves Lansdown accepted transfers like
his. And it wasnt the case that hed initially been offered unrestricted access. There was a
suggestion but no formal offer. What the investigator had said about AML didnt always apply
and when he hadnt moved any money in. Hed offered a solution about his address which
although perfectly logical was refused by Hargreaves Lansdown. Theyd telephoned him and
had been satisfied with his identity. Theyd refused to employ methods commonly used by
banks and other financial firms to identify and accept changes of address by telephone.
The investigator considered what Mr M had said but she didnt change her view. She
acknowledged that it was possible that Hargreaves Lansdowns approach could be different
if a regulated adviser was involved. But Mr M hadnt sought advice from an adviser.
Hargreaves Lansdown had acted within the terms and conditions and hadnt treated Mr M
unfairly. There was no suggestion that Hargreaves Lansdown suspected money laundering.
But it still needed to verify Mr Ms identify for the security of his account. That wasnt
unreasonable. And Hargreaves Lansdown had spoken to Mr M over the telephone. But the
risk in that was different from that involved in transferring his SIPP so the requirements were
different.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me to decide.
I asked Hargreaves Lansdown for some more information about the terms and conditions
which applied at the time Mr Ms SIPP was transferred to Hargreaves Lansdown. Ive
referred to some of these above and to later changes.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration. Hes unhappy the SIPP he has with Hargreaves
Lansdown is restricted. And hes been unable to solve that problem by transferring to a SIPP
with a different UK provider who is prepared to accept the transfer and provide an
unrestricted service.
Mr M has two separate but related and concurrent issues: first the restrictions placed on his
account due the fact that he lives outside the UK; secondly the requirement for him to
produce identity documents to validate his address so he can transfer his SIPP away from
Hargreaves Lansdown.
Ive looked first at what service Hargreaves Lansdown agreed to provide when Mr Ms SIPP
was transferred.
Even though Mr Ms transfer was part of a bulk transfer, Mr M was still required to agree to
Hargreaves Lansdowns terms and conditions. Hargreaves Lansdown has said its terms and
conditions make it clear that, as a business, it caters for UK residents and it may only be
able to offer limited services to if the customer moves outside the UK. Thats clearly the
position now, as set out in condition A2, which specifically refers to a full range of services
being offered to UK residents.
But, at the time Mr Ms SIPP was transferred to Hargreaves Lansdown, condition A2 didnt
specify that. In fact it appears to have indicated otherwise: it said the same level of service
was offered and all transactions were treated the same but, for those dealing with
Hargreaves Lansdown from outside the EEA, the same UK protections didnt apply. It wasntuntil Hargreaves Lansdowns terms and conditions were updated in 2018 that condition A2
was amended to draw a distinction between services offered to UK residents (a full range)
and those resident outside the UK (the possibility of limited services). That said, and as Ive
referred to above, the key features document at the time, which Id assume Mr M got, did
say the customer had to live in the UK or EEA when the SIPP was started.
Mr M says he only discovered after his Hargreaves Lansdown account was opened that hed
be restricted, even though Hargreaves Lansdown was fully aware that he lived abroad. But it
seems there was some issue at the outset and before Mr Ms application was accepted, abut
his address being in a different country. The letter dated 23 December 2015 from the CEO
records that Mr Ms application was accepted on the basis he was only a temporary resident.
And it said, if Mr M became permanently non resident, then, although hed be able to retain
his existing investments with Hargreaves Lansdown, hed be unable to make future
contributions.
It would therefore seem Mr M knew, from the outset, that his application had only been
accepted because Hargreaves Lansdown thought he was only living outside the UK on a
temporary basis. Mr M also knew, if he became a permanent non UK resident, Hargreaves
Lansdowns service might be restricted.
If Mr M knew when he moved his SIPP to Hargreaves Lansdown that he wouldnt be
returning to the UK or that it was unlikely, I think he shouldve pointed that out to Hargreaves
Lansdown, rather than allowing Hargreaves Lansdown to accept his application on the basis
it did. It may then have been possible to have made alternative arrangements for Mr Ms
SIPP from the outset.
Even if Mr M didnt know for sure what hed be doing, the fact of the matter is that he didnt
return to the UK. I understand hes been living in the country in which he currently lives since
2017 and he holds a permanent residents visa. I dont agree his position is akin to UK
diplomats or servicemen who live abroad. Mr M may have retained financial ties with the UK.
But I think Hargreaves Lansdown is entitled to treat him as a non UK resident. I dont see
that Hargreaves Lansdown is treating Mr M unfairly if hes being treated as Hargreaves
Lansdown treats other non UK residents.
In saying that, Mr M has referred to what the Money Advice Service told him. But I note the
email from Money Advice Service sent to Mr M on 11 August 2017 starts off by saying that
there are very few firms who will touch this type of business. So it would seem Hargreaves
Lansdown isnt alone in not being able and/or willing to provide a service to non UK
residents. The email does say that the adviser the Money Advice Service made enquiries of
was adamant that hed transferred clients not resident in the UK to Hargreaves Lansdown.
But it may thats possible if theres an adviser in place which Mr M doesnt have.
Hargreaves Lansdown says it has taken a commercial decision not to accept business from
someone in Mr Ms position. Hargreaves Lansdown can choose to limit its services and it
has elected to do so for the reasons its explained  the regulatory complexities involved.
Thats a business decision on Hargreaves Lansdowns part and not something wed interfere
in.
Wed look at the impact on Mr M but I dont think hes been unfairly treated  as Ive said he
knew when he transferred his SIPP it was on the basis he was a temporary resident outside
the UK and that, if he became a permanent resident, that would affect the services
Hargreaves Lansdown would provide. He didnt become a permanent resident in that
country but in a different one but the same principle applies. And from what Ive seen hes
being treated the same as other non UK residents in the same position.Id also point out that Hargreaves Lansdowns terms and conditions changed in 2018.
Hargreaves Lansdown reserved the right to change its terms and conditions - condition A7
(of the original terms and conditions) said Hargreaves Lansdown could change the terms by
giving reasonable notice of the change. Hargreaves Lansdown did give Mr M notice and hes
bound by the amended terms and conditions which came into effect in 2018.
Condition A2 as revised is explicit that a full range of services will be offered to UK residents
with the possibility of limited services for residents outside the UK. But, given what Ive said
about the basis on which Hargreaves Lansdown accepted Mr Ms application, I dont think
anything turns on the later revision to the terms and conditions: when it accepted his SIPP
application, Hargreaves Lansdown didnt promise an unrestricted service if Mr M remained a
non UK resident.
The other related and concurrent issue is about verifying Mr Ms address. Mr M now wants to
transfer away from Hargreaves Lansdown but it is unable to facilitate that until its been able
to verify Mr Ms identity/address.
Condition A5 in force in 2015 said that identity needed to be verified and that Hargreaves
Lansdown might seek additional information in order to do so. Shortly after Mr Ms SIPP was
set up, Hargreaves Lansdown got in touch with Mr M asking for documents to verify his
identity/address. I dont think these were forthcoming.
But, even if they were, when Mr M notified a new address (in a different country) in October
2017 Hargreaves Lansdown needed to see documentation to verify Mr Ms address. Mr M
raised the matter with the CEO but Hargreaves Lansdown maintained its stance and said
that until acceptable identity documents were received, Mr M wouldnt be able to make a
withdrawal. I dont think Hargreaves Lansdown was acting other than in accordance with the
terms and conditions notified to Mr M when he transferred his SIPP. So my starting point is
that Mr M wasnt treated unfairly.
I note what Mr M has said about Hargreaves Lansdown being satisfied with Mr Ms
credentials in terms of speaking to him over the telephone and that he can access his
account on line. But I think that there are different risks involved in actually transferring his
money away and which demand a greater degree of security. Even though theres no
suggestion of any money laundering Hargreaves Lansdown still needs to comply with its
regulatory requirements.
Hargreaves Lansdown has referred to some of the specific AML provisions. I dont think
these just apply to new clients. Hargreaves Lansdowns requests are in line with its
regulatory duties  to ensure ongoing verification of a clients identity and, where the client
has not been physically present for identification purposes, to take specific and adequate
measure to compensate for the higher risk, such as requiring additional documentation.
Ive also looked at Mr Ms particular situation and how easy or otherwise it is for him to meet
Hargreaves Lansdowns requirements taking into account hes not living in the UK 
essentially Ive considered whether what Hargreaves Lansdown has requested is
reasonable.
Hargreaves Lansdown has explained, to minimise inconvenience to clients, it will attempt to
verify clients details electronically via an external credit reference agency. But, as Mr M lives
abroad, that method wasnt possible.
Looking at the documents that Hargreaves Lansdown has asked for, I dont think whats
been requested is, on the face of it, unreasonable, even if other financial firms might have
different and less onerous requirements  such as accepting internet generated bankstatements.
I think Mr M can produce a certified copy of a document from List A (which looks quite wide
and isnt limited to photographic evidence) but hes having trouble producing another
document from that list or one from List B. It includes bank statements but thats problematic.
Mr M has mentioned the time  more than three months  it would take for him to get
statements from his bank in the UK by post and then send them back by post to Hargreaves
Lansdown. But I dont think Mr M has actually tried to do that so. Despite his pessimism, it
might work and be quicker than he fears.
And there might be other steps that could be taken. If Mr M explained the problem to his UK
bank, perhaps the statements could be couriered or another delivery service used. The
same is true for sending the statements back to Hargreaves Lansdown. I appreciate thered
be a cost implication but I think Mr M would probably have to accept that  sometimes living
abroad means that some things arent as straightforward as they might otherwise be.
Id expect, if attempts to get the statements to Hargreaves Lansdown dont prove successful,
Hargreaves Lansdown to work with Mr M and explore ways in which he might be able to
meet the requirements and so enable his SIPP to be transferred.
I can see Mr M has made efforts to comply with Hargreaves Lansdowns requirements. I
note what hes said about the way utility bills work in the country he lives in  theyre issued
to the owner of the property and not the tenant, such as Mr M. Hes explained that to
Hargreaves Lansdown and, in his email of 3 May 2021, he supplied a copy of his passport,
certified by a lawyer, whose details he gave. And a letter from his bank plus his tenancy
contract and a water utilities bill in an attempt to match up his address with the bill and the
property owner.
Mr M has referred to some flexibility on Hargreaves Lansdowns part being needed. Id hope
that would be forthcoming. Both parties want the same outcome  Hargreaves Lansdown
doesnt work with clients who are outside the UK and so it doesnt want to retain Mr Ms
business and Mr M, for his part, wants to move to another SIPP provider.
Id ask Hargreaves Lansdown, in response to this provisional decision, to suggest some
ways in which the current impasse might be overcome.
Lastly Hargreaves Lansdown has said it didnt reply to Mr Ms further correspondence to the
CEO as the issue was the same as previously raised. But Hargreaves Lansdown accepts
that as a matter of courtesy it should have told Mr M that it didnt propose to reply. From
what Ive seen there was also some delay on Hargreaves Lansdowns part in dealing with
the transfer request it received from another UK SIPP provider and which Mr M had to chase
up.
These issues will have caused some unnecessary inconvenience to Mr M and I think a
payment of £150 would be appropriate.
Hargreaves Lansdown accepted my provisional decision. And it told us that the transfer of 
Mr Ms accounts to a new provider had now been successfully completed. Mr M didnt agree 
with my provisional decision. Ive summarised his main arguments: 
Hed made two complaints and hed been given separate reference numbers for 
each. Our investigator had decided both complaints were the same and had treated 
them as a single complaint. Mr M attached the submissions hed made in support of each complaint. He said they were obviously separate complaints. One was directed 
at the CEO, the other was against the company itself. 
As to his complaint against the CEO, Mr M had asked if his evidence that Hargreaves 
Lansdown had accepted unrestricted business from UK nationals residing abroad 
was correct or not. Mr M said Id dismissed and largely ignored evidence from the 
Money Advice Service and the named adviser/wealth management firm whod stated 
categorically that Hargreaves Lansdown had and would accept such business. But 
Hargreaves Lansdown hadnt accepted unrestricted business from him. We needed 
to fully investigate his evidence given hed alleged the CEO had by omission lied to 
him and to us. The claim that the failure to respond to his two letters was an 
oversight was disingenuous or worse. 
Its irrelevant that there may be only a few financial businesses who will engage in 
foreign business. Hed referred to a wealth management firm which does deal with 
foreign residents and whod said Hargreaves Lansdown had definitely accepted 
several accounts from it. That had been confirmed by the Money Advice Service, a 
government approved body. Mr M said hed been discriminated against. 
His second complaint, against the company, was about it restricting Mr Ms activities 
after accepting his transferred business and artificially imposing restrictions which 
prevented him from transferring. Mr M said Hargreaves Lansdown had just accepted 
the whole of the previous providers pension book on the basis that any irregularities 
would be dealt with later. 
Id ignored his frustration when requesting proof of the specific anti money laundering 
regulations imposed on him. Hed been sent a clause from the regulator which was 
irrelevant. When hed pressed further hed been threatened with having all 
communications with him cut off. He resent a link from a government website with 
advice on firms responsibilities in identifying money laundering. It says firms should 
look out for evidence of unusual activity. Id ignored what hed said about his account 
being sealed with no new money ever coming in - he couldnt launder money that 
didnt exist. He mentioned other large organisations which he considered to be guilty 
of money laundering or worse. 
The compensation Id suggested was inadequate. Mr M also sought an apology from 
the CEO and a copy of the apology and resolution to be passed to regulator.  
Mr M also provided a welcome letter from Hargreaves Lansdown dated 29 October 
2015. It said Hargreaves Lansdown offered a broader range of investments than the 
previous provider and the charges were different (slightly higher). If Mr M wished to 
transfer his SIPP drawdown account to another provider, he could do so free of exit 
charges if he acted before 21 January 2016.
Mr M confirmed that, whilst in the UK earlier this year, hed been able to transfer to a 
new provider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im pleased to see that Mr M has now been able to transfer to a new provider. So what 
I said in my provisional decision, about Hargreaves Lansdown needing to work with Mr M to 
enable him to meet its requirements and enable his accounts to be transferred, falls away. 
Im sorry Mr M is so dissatisfied with my provisional decision. I appreciate his strength of 
feeling and Ive reconsidered everything carefully. But having done so, Im not going to 
depart from the views I expressed in my provisional decision. Ive set those out above and 
they form part of this decision. And, although Ive read and considered everything, Im not going to comment on each and every point Mr M has raised, just what I see as the key 
issues.  
Mr M originally made two complaints which he says are different because one is made 
against the CEO and the second is against Hargreaves Lansdown itself. Our compulsory 
jurisdiction covers acts or omissions by a firm in carrying on regulated activities. Wed treat a 
complaint about an officer or employee as a complaint against the firm itself. Mr Ms 
complaint is about the restrictions Hargreaves Lansdown placed on his account. It includes 
an allegation that the CEO omitted to respond to an issue raised by Mr M. But thats still part 
of the same overall complaint. I think the investigator was right to say the complaints should 
be dealt with together. 
Looking first at what Mr M has said about the CEOs failure to reply to his letters, Hargreaves 
Lansdown has explained that it didnt have anything further to add to what Mr M had already 
been told. But Hargreaves Lansdown accepted it shouldve told Mr M that it didnt propose to 
reply. I said Id be making an award for any inconvenience Mr M had suffered because of 
Hargreaves Lansdowns failure to tell him it had nothing to add and that his further letters 
had just been filed. Ive confirmed that award below. 
Mr Ms point is that, according to the Money Advice Service and the named wealth 
management firm, Hargreaves Lansdown does accept business from non UK residents. But 
I dont agree thats conclusive in showing Hargreaves Lansdown has treated Mr M unfairly. 
Other customers personal and financial details, such as location (including whether inside or 
outside the EEA), residency status, banking arrangements, nature of the services required 
and if an adviser is in place, will be different. I dont think Hargreaves Lansdown must have 
treated Mr M unfairly simply because it may have accepted business from other UK 
nationals living abroad and whose circumstances wont exactly mirror Mr Ms.  
Although Mr M says Hargreaves Lansdown has discriminated against him, I dont think Mr M 
is alleging discrimination under the Equality Act 2010. It sets out some nine protected 
characteristics and Mr M hasnt pointed to any of those. I think his point is that hes been 
treated differently and less favourably to other customers in the same or a similar position to 
him. But, as Ive said, other customers circumstances wont be identical to Mr Ms. It might 
also be the case that any other customers who dont live in the UK may have encountered 
similar or comparable issues and may not have been able to access Hargreaves 
Lansdowns services in exactly the same way as if theyd been in the UK.  
Mr M also complains that Hargreaves Lansdown accepted his transferred business but then 
restricted his account. Where, as here, theres a bulk transfer of business, I agree that each 
transferring customers precise situation and requirements wont be known. Its probably 
inevitable that some individual discrepancies or difficulties will emerge once individual 
circumstances and requirements are worked through. I note, from the welcome letter Mr M 
has supplied, that, if he didnt want to remain with Hargreaves Lansdown, he could transfer 
to another provider free of exit charges if he did so before 21 January 2016. 
Mr M considers the AML provisions which Hargreaves Lansdown has pointed to dont apply 
to his situation and when theres no evidence of unusual activity on his accounts. I do 
understand Mr Ms frustration. Sometimes regulations or processes which are put in place to 
combat crime or unauthorised activity can be frustrating for genuine customers who want to 
access their own accounts legitimately. But I think thats a price most customers will be 
prepared to pay to ensure that the security of their accounts is maintained. I dont agree with 
Mr Ms comments about why the AML provisions didnt apply to him. Further, Hargreaves 
Lansdown was acting in accordance with the account terms and conditions which provide for 
verification of Mr Ms identity/address. Even if no new money was coming into his account, Mr M was seeking to transfer to a different provider. Hargreaves Lansdown needed to 
ensure the instruction was genuine and Mr Ms money didnt go astray. 
I note that Mr M considers the compensation I suggested was inadequate. But, in the main, 
Im not upholding his complaints. The award I made reflected any distress or inconvenience 
hed suffered for the failing to acknowledge his letters to the CEO, rather than the wider 
issues. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint but only in part. Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited
should pay Mr M £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman