DRN-1898190
The complaint
Mr J complains that a hire agreement for a car was unfairly terminated by Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
What happened
Mr J entered into a lease agreement with VWFS on the 11 June 2019 for a new car. The 
terms of the agreement were for 36 months. An initial rental of £3,188.16 was due in 
advance and 36 further rentals of £354.24 were due at monthly intervals.  
The direct debit for the initial rental was attempted on the 18 June 2019 and was rejected by 
Mr Js bank. VWFS wrote to Mr J on the 10 July 2019 to notify him of the failed payment and 
the arrears now on his account. A further attempt to take the initial rental was attempted on 
the 18 July 2019 at the time of the first rental. The first rental was paid but the initial rental 
was rejected for a second time. VWFS wrote to Mr J again on 31 July 2019 to notify him of 
the arrears.
VWFS attempted to take the second rental on the 18 August 2019 and this was rejected. 
VWFS wrote to Mr J on the 21 August to tell him about this and explained that the arrears 
were now £3542.40. The same pattern continued for the rentals due on 18 September and 
October 2019.
On 23 October 2019 Mr J entered into an arrangement to pay the arrears. The first payment 
of £704.48 was agreed by 24 October 2019 and three further repayments of £1062.72 were 
agreed to be paid on the 1 and 28 November and 28 December 2019. Mr J paid the first 
repayment of £708.48 on the 24 Oct 2109 but didnt make the agreed payment on 1 
November 2019. VWFS wrote to Mr J on 1 November 2019 to tell him the arrangement had 
been broken.
A further arrangement was agreed on 5 November and 8 November 2019, but Mr J didnt 
make any of the agreed payments. On 11 November 2019 Mr J contacted VSFS and was 
given a further 7 days to make the repayment. On 16 November 2019 VWFS wrote to Mr J 
and told him it had terminated the agreement which was within the 7 days agreed for 
payment on 11 November. As a gesture of goodwill VWFS emailed Mr J and advised him 
that he could clear the arrears by the 19 November 2019. No repayment was made but, on 
the 22 November, Mr J said the money had been transferred to an incorrect account, so he 
was given a further deadline of 25 November 2019 to pay the outstanding arrears. No 
repayment was made, and a formal default notice was sent to Mr J on the 18 January 2020.
Mr J says that he was given confusing information by VWFS and it sent letters to an address 
he was not living at instead of emailing him as requested. Mr J said that at the time he was 
going through very difficult personal and financial circumstances and VWFS didnt treat him 
fairly.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Js complaint and didnt recommend that it was upheld. They 
thought that VWFS had given Mr J enough opportunities to bring the account up to date and 
had tried to arrange affordable repayment plans when he fell into difficultly. They didnt think 
it was wrong for VWFS to have terminated the agreement.
Mr J didnt agree and replied to say in summary that he was given conflicting information by 
VWFS particularly, about whether the agreement would continue if he made the repayments. 
He said that he did make some repayments and it wasnt fair of VWFS to have terminated 
the agreement.
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked afresh at all the information and Ive carefully considered what Mr J has said. Im 
sorry that he has had difficult financial and personal circumstances. I understand that Mr J 
would like to pay the debt and keep the agreement, but my role is to look at whether VWFS 
have treated Mr J fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement.
Looking at what happened I can see that the initial rental was not paid. Mr J was told that it 
was unpaid and on three occasions the business tried to set up a repayment plan. Mr J did 
not make the repayments under the plan that he had agreed to.
Mr J explains that the agreement was terminated early in November 2019. Despite this 
VWFS gave Mr J a further deadline to make the repayment by the 19 November 2019. Mr J 
has said that he was awaiting confirmation that the agreement would be re-instated before 
making the repayments. I cant see that this was explicitly raised by Mr J during the calls. But 
Mr J didnt make the repayments so I cant say that the business was wrong to terminate the 
agreement. 
I can see that VWFS gave Mr J more than one opportunity to bring the agreement up to date 
and clear the arrears. Mr J made arrangements to pay and then didnt pay the amounts he 
had agreed. The initial rental remained outstanding from the start of the agreement.
VWFS wrote to Mr J and kept him informed of the arrears and the arrangements to pay. I 
can understand that Mr J wanted that information via email, but I cant say it was wrong to 
send it by post given the requirements of the agreement. Mr J was aware that his agreement 
was in arrears and he knew the amounts outstanding.
I do sympathise with Mr J and I appreciate the difficulties he has had. However, where a 
borrower appears to be struggling to make the agreed repayments, as Mr J was in this case, 
and agreed arrangements to pay have been broken I cant say that it is unfair or 
unreasonable for the business to terminate the agreement.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 
16 February 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman