DRN-2626715
The complaint
Mr G has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his home insurance claim 
and cancelled his policy.
  
What happened
Mr G contacted UKI to make an insurance claim for storm damage to his roof and internal 
damage to his home. UKI investigated the claim and turned it down. It said the claim Mr G 
was making was longstanding damage that had been there before Mr G took out the policy 
with UKI. 
UKI felt that Mr G had taken out the insurance policy, with the intent to claim for something 
he already knew was damaged. So, it felt Mr G had breached the fraud condition of his 
policy. Given that, UKI declined the claim, cancelled the policy and added a fraud marker to 
insurance databases.
When Mr G complained to UKI, it maintained its decision to decline the claim and said that 
Mr Gs claim was fraudulent.
So, Mr G complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said 
that although he didnt think that there were storm conditions around the time that Mr G said 
he found the damage, he didnt think there was enough evidence to show that Mr Gs claim 
was fraudulent.
As UKI did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 22 January 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold this complaint in part. I said:
UKI investigated whether Mr Gs claim was evidence of fraud. It appears that Mr G didnt 
have any home insurance until he took out the policy with UKI about three months before the 
storm claim. UKI said that it thought that the damage was longstanding, and that Mr G had 
taken out the policy in order to then make a claim to get the damage repaired.
When noting that a policyholder has breached the fraud condition of their policy, UKI need to 
show it was more likely than not that the policyholder was dishonestly attempting to gain 
something they were not entitled to. So, Ive considered the information UKI used to make its 
decision, to decide whether this was reasonable based on the evidence.
And having done so, Im not satisfied UKI did come to a fair conclusion. I say that because I 
dont think theyve provided sufficient evidence that the damage Mr G is claiming for was 
present when Mr G purchased the policy.
Mr Gs home was being marketed by some estate agents. Im aware that during UKIs 
investigation Mr G was asked about his house being on the market. He seemed to give 
differing explanations about his house being for sale, including that he wasnt planning on 
selling the house, that he had been trying to sell it for years or that he was just testing the 
market. But I dont think this is relevant, as it doesnt help to show anything about the 
damage that was claimed for.
UKIs investigator spoke to the estate agents. Ive listened to those phone calls. And whilst I 
understand UKI felt the content of these conversations raised some concerns, I dont think 
that UKI came to a fair conclusion based on these calls. 
Whilst they do reference some damage to the property prior to the claim Mr G made, I dont 
think the demonstrates that the damage Mr G is claiming for is the same as that noted by the 
estate agents. I say this because the estate agents reference some damage to a wall in the 
kitchen of the property, and highlight a photo showing this. But I cant see Mr G has made a 
claim for any damage in the kitchen. 
On one of the calls the person UKI spoke to had said there was also damage to the office 
and in a bedroom. And Im aware Mr G is claiming for damage to these rooms. But the 
estate agent that did visit the property said they couldnt remember when their visit had 
been. And they werent able to give any details of the type of damage in these rooms, nor 
any photographs of it. So, based on this, it isnt clear Mr G was dishonestly claiming for 
damage caused before the policy was taken out. 
Ive also looked at the report prepared by the company that inspected the damage for UKI. 
This report covered damage to the bedroom, study and garage. It included a very brief 
description of the damage and two unlabelled photos that showed some damage to a ceiling 
and wall and some watermarks and issues with wallpaper in another room.
Looking at what was found through the above enquiries, the only pre-existing damage that 
was evidenced appeared to be in the kitchen, as this was in the estate agents photos. I also 
dont think it was clearly established during the phone calls who it was that saw the damage, 
what that damage was and when it was first seen. So, despite UKI seeming to put a lot of 
weight on this, I dont find this evidence very compelling. I dont think that this shows whether 
the damage claimed for happened before or after the policy was taken out.
Looking at the inspection report, I also dont think this shows when the damage was most 
likely to have happened, including whether it was before or after the insurance policy was 
taken out.
Ive also thought about the other reasons UKI gave for deciding that Mr Gs claim should be 
declined and that there was evidence of fraud. This included that the builder had no contact 
phone number and didnt give the builders opinion on the cause. However, Ive looked at the 
builders invoice Mr G provided to UKI and this gave two phone numbers and said Ridge 
tiles were lifted to high winds. So I dont think it was fair for UKI to say this.
UKI also raised concerns that Mr G phoned to cancel the claim and the policy and that UKI 
wrote to Mr G to explain its concerns to Mr G but he didnt respond.
I dont think the above demonstrates that UKI made a reasonable conclusion that Mr G acted 
fraudulently. It does help to show some of the reason why UKI thought the claim should be 
investigated further, but these issues dont help to show whether the damage was more 
likely to have happened before or after the policy was taken out.  Because of this, I dont 
think UKI acted fairly in voiding Mr Gs policy using the fraud condition. And therefore, it 
should reinstate Mr Gs policy, and remove any record of its previous voidance from any 
internal and external databases.Given that I dont think it was reasonable to void the policy, Ive also considered Mr Gs 
claim, and whether UKI acted fairly in declining this.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked to see whether the weather conditions were such that they 
would be considered a storm. And have done this by looking at weather reports around the 
time Mr G said that the damage happened. Having done so, I didnt see any wind speeds in 
the weeks before the claim that would be considered severe enough to be storm conditions. 
There was a large volume of rainfall recorded in a 24-hour period shortly before Mr G made 
the claim that was just below what would be considered to be storm conditions. So I dont 
think there were storm conditions, which means the answer to the first question is no.
As a result, I havent considered the second and third question, as I think the claim was fairly 
declined, as there wasnt evidence of a storm. 
So, thinking about the above, Im minded to uphold this complaint in part. I dont intend to 
uphold the part about UKI declining the storm claim. I think it is more likely than not that the 
damage was the result of wear and tear, which isnt covered by the policy. However, I intend 
to uphold the part about UKI deciding that the claim was fraudulent. I dont think UKI has 
shown evidence of fraud. UKI has put a lot of weight on the estate agency photos and the 
conversations with the estate agents, but I dont think these show the damage claimed for 
was pre-existing. The only photo of damage was in the kitchen, but this didnt form part of 
the claim. The conversations with the estate agents were mainly with someone who clearly 
said that she had never been to the house and hadnt seen the damage herself. I dont find 
that evidence persuasive.
As a result, I intend to require UKI to remove the reference to fraud from its own and any 
national databases. Im aware that the fraud finding has also had an impact on Mr Gs 
personal circumstances, including his employment, and has affected his mental health, so I 
intend to require UKI to pay Mr G £750 compensation because I think this fairly recognises 
the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 21 February 2021.
Mr G didnt provide any comments.
UKI said one of the rooms being claimed for was the study and that the estate agents had 
confirmed that there was damage when they visited the property. UKI accepted that it didnt 
know when the estate agents photos were taken but said it was obvious they were taken 
before the house went up for sale. Mr G had also confirmed to UKI that there was no 
apparent damage prior to the storm.
UKI also said the call handler spoke to the estate agent who confirmed that the pre-existing 
damage was apparent. However, Mr G then spoke to the estate agent and told them not to 
disclose information to UKI. UKI found this strange as if Mr G had nothing to hide, this could 
have helped with his claim. UKI also said it wasnt normal behaviour for someone to withdraw their claim. In UKIs opinion this supported its concerns that some of the damage 
was pre-existing. UKI said that although it couldnt prove categorically that the damage 
occurred before the policy started, it felt it had enough evidence to show that Mr G was 
aware of at least some of the damage and had then tried to attribute it to an insured event. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my decision to uphold this complaint in part and for 
the reasons previously given.
Ive considered all of the points raised by UKI, even if I dont comment on them here, and 
these dont persuade me that it did enough to show evidence of fraud. Ive read what UKI 
said about the photos and discussions with the estate agent. As explained in my provisional 
decision, the photos dont show the damage that was claimed for. In addition, the 
conversation with the estate agents about the photos wasnt with someone who had been to 
the property, which the person said on a number of occasions. When UKI spoke to the 
person who did visit the property, he didnt confirm any details about the damage or when he 
had visited the property. This doesnt persuade me that UKI did enough to show that the 
specific damage claimed for was present before Mr G made his claim. 
UKI was also concerned that Mr G tried to cancel his claim and that he seemed to have told 
the estate agent not to speak to UKI. I accept that these could cause UKI concern about the 
claim and make it want to investigate further. However, I dont accept that the only thing this 
could indicate was that Mr Gs claim was fraudulent or that it most likely was.
I also think that UKI had a range of information that raised concerns but that some of these 
werent relevant on closer scrutiny. For example, it put emphasis on the damage in the 
kitchen, but that damage didnt form part of the claim. It also said that no contact details had 
been provided for the builder, but the invoice did have contact details on it. This meant that 
there was a more limited range of evidence than was initially suggested. I think there were 
also significant gaps in the remaining evidence. As a result, I dont think UKI did enough to 
show that it was reasonable for it to conclude that the claim was fraudulent. 
  
Putting things right
UKI must remove the reference to fraud from its own and any national databases and pay Mr 
G £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld in part. I require U K Insurance Limited to:remove the reference to fraud from its own and any external databases
pay Mr G £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman