DRN-4337426
Complaint
Ms H has complained about a credit card Bank of Scotland PLC (trading as Halifax) 
provided to her. She says the limit on the credit card was irresponsibly increased.
Background
Halifax provided Ms H with a credit card with an initial limit of £1,000.00 in May 2015. Ms Hs 
credit limit was decreased to £950 in March 2018 before then being increased to £1,700.00 
in April 2022. 
Ms H has only asked us to look into a complaint about her credit limit being increased to 
£1,700.00 in April 2022.
One of our investigators reviewed what Ms H and Halifax had told us. And he thought Halifax 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated when increasing Ms Hs credit limit. So he didnt 
recommend that Ms Hs complaint be upheld. 
Ms H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Hs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Halifax needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Halifax needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether  Ms H 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Halifax says it agreed to increase Ms Hs credit limit after it carried out a credit search and 
overlaid the information it had about her income. In Halifaxs view, the information it obtained 
indicated that Ms H would be able to make the monthly repayments due for this credit card. 
Furthermore, Ms Hs account being relatively well managed at the time since the limit 
decrease since March 2018, was also a factor in her being offered a credit limit increase to 
£1,700.00 in April 2022. 
On the other hand, Ms H says that her credit limit shouldnt have been increased.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Whats important to note is that Ms H was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that Halifax was required to understand whether a credit limit of 
£1,700.00 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than all in one go. A 
credit limit of £1700.00 wasnt insignificant but it didnt require huge monthly payments in 
order to clear the full amount owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Halifaxs credit check did indicate that Ms H had had previous difficulties with credit in the 
form of a county court judgement (CCJ). But its fair to say that this was historic and was 
being well managed given that it had been reduced to an outstanding balance of £8 since it 
was obtained. And Ms H says she didnt have much in the way of active debts or 
commitments at the time of application either. 
The information Halifax relied on suggests that Ms H had total debts of around £2,000.00. 
Given the amount of the likely increased monthly payments, Ms Hs existing debts and the 
total amount of funds shes likely to have been in receipt of, I dont think that Halifax needed 
to do more here. And its checks before increasing Ms Hs credit limit appear to have been 
reasonable and proportionate.
For the sake of completeness, even if I were to agree that more needed to be done, at the 
absolute most it could be argued that Halifax needed to obtain more on Ms Hs actual living 
costs, rather than rely on an estimate of this at the time of the limit increase. But I dont think 
that Halifax would have made a different decision even if it had asked Ms H for more 
information. 
I say this because Ive not seen anything that clearly shows me that when Ms Hs committed 
non-discretionary regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted 
from what she received, she did not have the funds to make a sustainable repayment for this 
credit card limit increase. 
For example, Ms H has confirmed that the CCJ related to a historic utility bill but shes been 
able to settle it. So, in these circumstances, its difficult for me to conclude that Halifax 
wouldnt have lent even if it had tried to find out more about her circumstances at this time. 
Im sorry to hear that Ms H has gone through a difficult time. But it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable for me to use hindsight here, or say that Halifax should have known this would 
be the case. This is especially as the available information indicates proportionate checks 
were carried out and even if more had been done this would not have prevented Halifax from 
offering this limit increase. 
So overall while I can understand Ms Hs sentiments, I dont think that Halifax treated Ms H 
unfairly or unreasonably when increasing her credit limit. And Im not upholding Ms Hs 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Ms H. But I hope shell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman