DRN-3273817
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected his claim against it under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in August 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. Initially, she thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to the consumer, and that fair redress would be 
for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. 
Ikano didnt respond, so the complaint was originally placed in a queue awaiting allocation to 
an Ombudsman. But during this process, our adjudicator revisited the documentation on file. 
And having considered this again, she didnt think the benefits of the panels were mis-
represented to the consumer. Shed seen the point of sale documentation and she was 
satisfied that the information included within this shouldve made it reasonably clear to Mr M 
that the benefits of the panels wouldnt cover the costs of his interest-free credit loan 
agreement. So, although she recognised Mr Ms testimony disputed this, she wasnt 
persuaded Ikano had acted unfairly and because of this, she didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. 
Mr M didnt agree. And he maintained hed entered into the agreement based on the 
misrepresentation of the sales presentation and that he wasnt talked through the purchase 
and loan agreements weve been provided. So, Mr M maintained the solar panels had been 
mis-represented as self-funding. Because of this, the case was passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
adjudicator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr M. I recognise Mr M feels 
strongly that the solar panels were mis-sold to him. And because of this, hes been 
financially dis-advantaged. But for me to agree, I need to be satisfied, based on the evidence 
available to me, that Mr M was mis-led at the point of sale. So, I need to be satisfied Mr M 
had no reasonable way of knowing the solar panels were not likely to be self-funding. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the 
estimated benefit of the panels very clearly. 
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit and above that are the calculations of the three savings Mr M was 
predicted to make, with the total benefit being stated as £748.62. I think this figure is made 
clear; it is not buried in some fine print. To the left it says the finance amount is £8095, with 
the finance type listed as Ikano 60 which I think is reasonable to assume related to the loan 
agreement, where Mr M agreed to pay the finance amount back over a 60 month term. Ive 
seen no evidence that shows Mr M has disputed the fact he agreed for the loan to be paid 
over 60 months. This document was signed by Mr M immediately below those figures, and 
so I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring this information to his attention.
Mr M says he was only shown these documents to sign them and wasnt talked through 
them in any detail. But I would expect Mr M to have read these documents and ensure he 
fully understood them before signing them. So, I think its reasonable for me to assume he 
has on the basis he applied his signature. And think it ought to have been reasonably clear 
to Mr M that the solar panels would cost him £1,619 a year, over the 60-month term. And 
that is more than double the stated benefit figure for the first year. So, I think it shouldve 
been reasonably clear to Mr M that the solar panels wouldnt be self-funding on this basis.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr M about the benefits and 
costs of the panels. I think it was made reasonably clear that the panels would not be self-
funding during the term of the loan. And so, I dont think Ikano need to do anything more on 
this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Ikano Bank AB (publ).
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman