DRN-2937906
The complaint
This complaint is about errors Mrs W says Klarna Bank AB (publ) made in the administration 
of payments on her account, and the way in which it handled her queries about the same.  
What happened
Mrs W purchased some garden furniture online in July 2020. She chose to pay for the goods 
from the retailer in instalments by using their Klarna payment option, which would result in 
her making 10 payments of £364.45 each, with the first repayment deferred until 
1 October 2020. 
In order to take advantage of this option, Mrs W electronically signed a credit agreement with 
Klarna dated 2 July 2020, to open what was described as a Klarna Credit account. This 
was a running-account credit agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974, and 
Mrs Ws purchase was added to the account as the first transaction.
Mrs W received an email from Klarna on 28 September 2020 which said her first payment 
had been scheduled and would be collected from her bank account shortly after 1 October 
2020.
The first repayment was collected as expected via direct debit, but on 5 November 2020 
Mrs W received an email from Klarna which said she was being charged a £12 late payment 
fee for missing her November 2020 payment. Mrs W says she checked her bank account 
and had had enough funds to meet her payment, so she contacted Klarna via webchat and 
complained. Klarna removed the late fee, advised her to set up the direct debit again, 
provided payment details for Mrs W to make a bank transfer, and said it wouldnt be 
reporting the late payment to the credit reference agencies. Klarna also logged a complaint.
Mrs W says she used the payment details given by Klarna to make a bank transfer for the 
uncollected payment on 6 November 2020. On 26 November 2020 she contacted Klarna 
again as her account balance was higher than she expected. Klarna said it looked like only 
one payment had been made towards the account. Mrs W made another repayment to the 
details Klarna had given her on this same day.
On 7 December 2020 Mrs W contacted Klarna again as she had been told she was being 
charged another late fee for a missed repayment. Klarna advised there had been some 
technical issue from our end and said it would remove the late payment fee. Another 
complaint was raised.
Mrs W was concerned that she had now made more than one manual repayment which had 
failed to appear on her account. She made further enquiries of Klarna, who asked for 
information to help locate the payments. Mrs W sent evidence of having made the payments 
and noted she had already provided this during an earlier webchat. 
On 11 February 2021 Klarna wrote to Mrs W with its response to her complaint. It said it had 
not properly informed her of how to set up automatic payments when she opened her 
account, but had done so on 19 November 2020. It had also incorrectly told her no negative 
information would be recorded on her credit file. So, although it would remove any negative 
information from her credit file from before 19 November 2020, but it wouldnt do so for any 
later payments which had been missed. It said it had already refunded all late payment fees 
which had been charged. Regarding the missing bank transfers, it said that Mrs W had 
incorrectly filled out the payment reference on the bank transfers, which is why they hadnt 
appeared on her account, but these had now been found and correctly credited. 
Following a further email from Mrs W, Klarna updated its response to say it believed our 
systems are adding additional information to customers reference numbers when they are 
making a bank transfer. It noted Mrs W was therefore not at fault for the bank transfers not 
being credited to her account, and agreed to remove all negative information from her credit 
file, and offered £100 compensation. It maintained that Mrs W had never set up automatic 
payments on her account and had made her first payment manually. Mrs W disagreed that 
payments had not been set up to go automatically. She also felt that Klarnas offer of 
compensation did not go far enough to recognise the financial and non-financial impact on 
her. In particular, Mrs W said the negative information on her credit file had caused her to be 
turned down for a 0% interest credit card so she was now paying more interest on her debts.
Mrs W had, in the meantime, brought her complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into it and thought that Klarnas failings in this case warranted more compensation 
than it had offered. He concluded Klarna had not been clear about whether payments would 
be collected automatically, and anything Mrs W needed to do to make things happen. He felt 
Mrs W had a reasonable expectation that, having set up a direct debit, her payments would 
be taken as and when needed by Klarna. He also noted Klarna hadnt been capable of 
locating Mrs Ws manual payments due to its own error, and had given Mrs W incorrect 
information about what it would report to the credit reference agencies. He said he couldnt 
be certain that any declined credit application from Mrs W must have been caused by the 
late payments having been recorded, but that it was right the late payments should be 
removed. He recommended Klarna pay £200 compensation in total, and ensure that any and 
all adverse information recorded by Klarna on Mrs Ws credit file and caused by the matters 
complained about, was removed.  
Klarna accepted our investigators recommendation. Mrs W did not. Her view was that the 
compensation amount remained too low and didnt take into account the full impact on her. 
She referred to having paid a significant sum of credit card interest as a result of being 
unable to obtain an interest free deal due to the negative information on her credit file. She 
said she would settle for compensation equal to one of her monthly payments. Our 
investigator asked Klarna if it would agree to pay this (though he did not change his 
recommendation). It said it would not, and as no agreement has been reached the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of matters which it seems are no longer in dispute. I will summarise 
them below:
Klarna gave incorrect information to Mrs W about whether it would record late 
payments on her credit file.
Mrs W made her bank transfers in good time to keep up with her repayments, and 
with correct account and reference details, but Klarna had been unable to locate 
these apparently due to its own technical problems which had caused strings of irrelevant information to be added to the end of Mrs Ws payment references.
Klarna took longer than was reasonable to investigate Mrs Ws concerns and 
responded with information which was  in part  inaccurate. In particular, Klarna 
suggested Mrs W had entered incorrect payment references when this wasnt the 
case. 
Klarna didnt explain to Mrs W how to set up automatic payments (Autopay) until 
19 November 2020, and didnt tell her up front that setting up a direct debit didnt 
necessarily mean it would take any repayments from her.
Our investigator didnt find it necessary to comment on whether Mrs Ws first repayment was 
made automatically or manually, because ultimately Klarna accepted it hadnt told her how to 
set up automatic payments. I agree it isnt strictly necessary to make a finding on this, for the 
same reason, but I do have some observations to make.
Neither partys assertion that the payment in question was made automatically or manually is 
supported by particularly persuasive evidence. Klarna has said its technical team has said 
it was made manually, but hasnt provided specific evidence of the mechanism Mrs W used 
to make the payment manually. Mrs Ws position is that a direct debit had been set up and 
she had received an email saying a payment had been scheduled, so she assumed the 
payment was being taken automatically in line with the agreement (and that subsequent 
payments would be made in the same way).
I think it is possible that Mrs W could have clicked a button on her Klarna account which had 
the effect of telling Klarna to take her next repayment via direct debit, as a one off. As I 
understand it, such a facility does exist on the Klarna app and/or website and it appears this 
is what Klarna may mean by manual repayment. But I note that it should be much easier 
for Klarna to prove that Mrs W made a repayment in this way, than it would be for Mrs W to 
prove that she didnt. Klarna hasnt done so. On balance therefore, I favour Mrs Ws account 
that the payment was an automatic one.
Also, like our investigator, I find it reasonable that Mrs W believed, having set up her direct 
debit, that her repayments would be taken automatically and she didnt need to worry about 
making them herself. This is in line with how direct debits are used generally for consumer 
billing, not just in the consumer credit sphere but for other bills such as utilities and council 
tax. Indeed, Bacs (the organisation which is responsible for clearing and settling direct debits 
in the UK) highlights one of the key benefits of the direct debit scheme as being the peace of 
mind that payments will be made automatically.1 Klarnas default position appears to be that 
it will not take payments on a direct debit automatically after it has been set up. Given how 
unusual this is, I think it is important that it made this key difference in how its accounts 
operate very clear to Mrs W. I find, and Klarna appears to accept, that it did not do so. 
The remaining point of dispute is whether Mrs W should be awarded more than £200 
compensation and the removal of any negative information from her credit file. I think its 
correct that the negative information is removed (if any remains), as the missed payments 
were in fact not missed at all, and the initial late payment was only late because Klarna had 
failed to advise Mrs W that she needed to take additional steps in order for the payment to 
be collected. 
Our investigators recommendation of compensation was based on the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs W by Klarnas errors and unclear communication. I agree that 
Klarnas level of communication was generally rather poor and there were occasions when it 
1 https://www.directdebit.co.uk/DirectDebitExplained/Pages/Benefits.aspx [retrieved 26 July 2021]gave incorrect information. It also made several mistakes (including making the same 
mistake more than once). I dont doubt this would have been greatly annoying and frustrating 
for Mrs W, but looking at the case in the round I think the £200 total compensation 
recommended by our investigator is a fair amount. Our investigator didnt include the 
financial loss Mrs W said she suffered as a result of having her creditworthiness damaged, 
because he did not feel this loss had been proven. He noted that applications for credit could 
be complicated and said: Id need to see clear evidence of the specific reasons for the 
credit card having been declined. 
I agree with our investigator that Mrs W would need to provide more evidence of any 
potential financial loss shes suffered as a result of the unfair recording of missed payments 
on her credit file by Klarna. I accept that damage to ones creditworthiness is likely to affect 
the availability of borrowing and the terms on which lenders are willing to lend. And there is 
information which shows Mrs Ws creditworthiness was damaged. But there is no 
documentary evidence that Mrs W was declined for a credit card, or that the reason the 
application was declined was due to the information recorded by Klarna. In light of this, Im 
unable to conclude she has suffered financial losses or that Klarna should reimburse these.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs Ws complaint in part and direct Klarna Bank 
AB publ to:
Pay Mrs W £200 compensation in total (including any amounts already paid in 
respect of her complaint).  
Ensure that any negative information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file in relation to the 
Klarna Credit account, and which was caused by the payment problems described in 
this final decision, is removed from her credit file at all credit reference agencies it 
reports accounts to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman