DRN-3860251
The complaint
Ms R complains that West Bay Insurance Plc were unfair in their cancellation of her 
insurance policy, and therefore their cancellation charge wasnt reasonable.
What happened
Ms R had a home insurance policy with West Bay, which she paid for by monthly direct 
debit. Unfortunately, one of her payments didnt go through.
West Bay wrote to Ms R about this, saying theyd try for the payment again but that if it didnt 
go through they may cancel the policy. The payment didnt go through, and so the policy was 
cancelled. West Bay charged Ms R for the period shed been covered as well as a £25 fee.
An investigator here looked into the matter and found Ms R to have been aware of the issue 
and so as the amount charged was in line with the policy terms, West Bay had been fair.
Ms R disagreed. She said shed not received the letter West Bay had apparently sent her 
and that shed always been willing to make the payment. Ms R also said the website wasnt 
user friendly.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms R, but Im not upholding her complaint.
First of all, it may be helpful for me to explain that in order for me to uphold a complaint Id 
need to find that the business, in this case West Bay, had done something wrong. And I 
cant see that they have.
While I appreciate Ms R may not have received the missed payment letter from West Bay, 
she was aware that a payment had been missed. Ive listened to a call between her and the 
business where she offers to make payment, but West Bay say itll be automatically tried for 
again.
Ms R says that will be fine. Unfortunately, the second attempt to take payment failed as well 
so West Bay started the cancellation process as per the policy terms. This included taking 
payment for time on cover along with a £25 cancellation fee.
I agree that Ms R has done little wrong here, its clear she was willing to make the payment 
and I dont doubt the possibility of a letter going missing in the post. But Im satisfied it was 
sent and that West Bay applied the terms and conditions of the policy correctly. So, Im not 
able to say they did anything wrong.
I do also appreciate Ms R says the website isnt user friendly. Even if thats the case, its 
evident she was aware of the payment issue and therefore she could have checked with her 
bank or with West Bay to see if the second attempt had been successful.
Overall, I dont think West Bay have treated Ms R unfairly even though I can understand why 
she feels that way.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman