DRN-2333662
The complaint
Mr is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, didnt proceed with a 
chargeback claim he made.
What happened
Mr M attempted to make a transaction online using his Barclaycard but the merchants 
website informed him that the transaction had been declined. So, Mr M made the online 
payment using a different card from a different bank, and the transaction was approved.
Mr M later discovered that the first transaction that he had attempted, using his Barclaycard, 
had in fact been successful, and this meant that he had made the payment twice. Mr M 
contacted the merchant to obtain a reimbursement for the Barclaycard payment, but without 
success. So, Mr M raised a chargeback claim with Barclays to recover the money.
Barclays raised the chargeback claim and provided a temporary credit on Mr Ms account 
pending the resolution of the claim. However, the merchant rejected the chargeback claim, 
and the temporary credit was removed from Mr Ms account.
Mr M wasnt happy with what had happened, so he raised a complaint. Barclays looked at 
Mr Ms complaint. They agreed that Mr M had provided them with sufficient evidence that the 
amount had been charged twice, and so they resumed the chargeback claim, reapplied the 
temporary credit to Mr Ms account, and contacted the merchants bank to attempt to reclaim 
the funds.
But the merchant again declined the chargeback claim and said that they had provided a 
refund to Mr M already. Barclays wrote to Mr M to advise him of this.
Mr M contacted Barclays and explained that the refund that he had received from the 
merchant was for a separate issue, which meant that he had still been charged twice for the 
issue he was complaining about this. Barclays agreed with Mr Ms position and made the 
decision to reimburse the disputed balance amount to Mr M themselves. Barclays also 
agreed to reimburse Mr M for the cost of the calls that he had had to make to Barclays to try 
to get this matter resolved.
Mr M didnt feel that the reimbursements made by Barclays took sufficient account of the 
upset and inconvenience that this matter had caused. Mr M was also unhappy with how 
Barclays had handled the chargeback claim and that Barclays had initially only offered to 
reimburse half of his call costs. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Barclays had followed the 
appropriate procedures when processing the chargeback claim. So, they didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin here by confirming that, in this instance, Mr M hasnt suffered any material 
financial loss. Whilst it is the case that Barclays didnt proceed with the chargeback claim 
following the second rejection of the claim by the merchant, Barclays did ultimately ensure 
that Mr M received the money back that he was claiming by reimbursing that money to Mr M 
themselves. Barclays also reimbursed Mr M the costs of the calls that he had had to make to 
Barclays to try to resolve this matter. It must be noted that, given that Mr M resides 
overseas, the reimbursement amount for the calls wasnt insignificant.
What is in dispute here is whether Barclays actions in reimbursing the claimed amount and 
the cost of the calls back to Mr M represents a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ms 
complaint. Its Mr Ms position that it doesnt, because the reimbursements made dont 
adequately reflect the inconvenience and distress that he has incurred in trying to resolve 
this issue.
But Mr Ms initial claim wasnt against Barclays, but rather was against the merchant. And 
Barclays made the decision to make the reimbursements to Mr M as a gesture of good faith 
and without any admission of error. And while I acknowledge that Mr M was undoubtedly 
inconvenienced by the sequence of events here, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for this 
service to instruct a business to make a compensation payment for any distress and 
inconvenience incurred unless that business could be considered as being responsible for 
that distress and inconvenience.
Having reviewed all the evidence and information available to me, its difficult for me to 
conclude that Barclays can be considered as being as being responsible for the 
inconvenience that Mr M has incurred here. I say this because Barclays were basing their 
actions on information received from both Mr M and the merchant and had to operate within 
the framework of the chargeback claim itself.
Id like to clarify what a chargeback dispute is. Its a process by which some disputes are 
resolved between the card issuer - in this case Barclays - and merchants, under the relevant 
card scheme rules. 
 
These rules are set by the card provider  in this case Visa - whose symbol is on the card. 
Visa has an agreement with banks and building societies as to how its cards are used, and 
this agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made and how they a claim 
is to be conducted. The rules are quite strict, and Barclays doesn't have the power to change 
them. 
 
Its also important to note that a chargeback claim isnt a right that a customer has  its a 
voluntary act, and this means that Barclays werent required to ask Visa for the transaction 
to be reversed via the chargeback scheme, although it is considered good practice for them 
to do so if they think the chargeback claim is likely to succeed, which in this case Barclays 
did.
I understand that Mr M is unhappy that Barclays didnt proceed with the chargeback claim 
after the merchant declined it for the second time. However, the rules for the chargeback 
claim stipulate that when a merchant declines a claim, the customer can provide additional 
information to support their claim within 30-days. Unfortunately, Mr M wasnt able to provide 
additional information within 30-days, and as per the rules of the chargeback claim, the claim 
process was ended at that time.Mr M did contact Barclays shortly after the 30-day period had ended, and Barclays 
acknowledged that the additional information that Mr M was able to provide at that time 
would probably have resulted in a successful claim being made. But the claim process had 
ended at that time and couldnt be re-opened, as has been explained above. So, Barclays 
made the decision to reimburse Mr M the claimed amount themselves, as a gesture of 
goodwill. And it must be noted that Barclays were under no obligation to do this.
Mr M has expressed his dissatisfaction at the trouble that he had in contacting Barclays and 
has referenced making numerous telephone calls to Barclays where he was on hold for 
significant periods of time and had to hang up without the call being answered. Mr M has 
further stated that it was this inability to get connected to a member of Barclays staff that 
caused him to miss the 30-day period within which he could provide additional information 
for the chargeback claim.
I can appreciate Mr Ms frustration here, but other channels of communication were available 
to Mr M which would have allowed him to provide the additional information within the 
required timeframe. And I dont feel that it would be fair for me to censure Barclays on the 
basis that Mr M chose not to utilise these alternative channels.
Mr M also stated that he is unhappy that Barclays initially offered to only reimburse half of 
his call costs, but I can see that this offer was changed by Barclays in a timely manner so 
that all call costs would be reimbursed. While I acknowledge that this may have been of 
some frustration to Mr M but given that the matter was resolved quickly in Mr Ms favour, I 
dont feel that this warrants a payment of compensation by Barclays. 
It follows from the above that Im satisfied that the trouble and upset that Mr M suffered here 
wasnt as a result of any actions of inactions of Barclays themselves but rather were as a 
result of the process that Barclays were attempting to complete on Mr Ms behalf. And this 
means that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action 
at this time.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Mr M was wanting, but I hope that he can 
understand, given everything that I have explained above, why I have made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman