DRN-3443100
The complaint
Ms O is complaining that Sainsbury's Bank Plc hasnt refunded an amount she paid on her 
Sainsburys credit card.
What happened
In April 2021 Ms O bought a mobile phone online through an online marketplace  who I 
shall refer to as A. She paid £101.26 for the phone. However, when the phone arrived, it 
didnt have facial recognition, which she says was contrary to the online advert. So she 
contacted A and raised a dispute and asked for a refund. She was unhappy with As 
response so in May 2021 she contacted Sainsburys to raise a dispute over the transaction.
Sainsburys raised a chargeback claim and asked her to complete a dispute form and send 
information required and it asked her to send this by post, which she did. Sainsburys raised 
the dispute with A and temporarily refunded the amount she paid. However, in July 2021 
Sainsburys reversed the credit. 
Ms O then called to query why the money had been taken back and Sainsburys says it 
wrote to her on 24 June 2021 to explain A had defended the claim because it said Ms O 
needed to return the phone for a full refund, but A had offered her a refund of £30.38 if she 
didnt want to return the phone.
Ms O didnt think she should be required to pay to return the phone as she said it was the 
supplier who she thought had fraudulently falsely advertised the phone. And she said it 
would cost £20 to return it. Following this, Sainsburys credited the account again, this time 
for £70.88 (i.e. the original amount less the refund offered). But in September 2021 it 
reversed the credit again.
Ms O doesnt believe Sainsburys handled the chargeback claim fairly and in line with the 
chargeback rules. In particular she queried where it said it was her responsibility to pay to 
return the phone. She also asked to raise a claim for the dispute under S75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (S75). Finally, she complained about the customer service she received. In 
particular she complained about the following:
She was promised call-backs but didnt receive any;
A call handler put her on hold to find an answer for her, but she was left on hold for an 
hour and never received an answer;
She didnt receive the letter of 24 June 2021.
Sainsburys acknowledged its customer service wasnt of the standard Ms O was entitled to 
expect and offered her £100 in compensation for this. But it maintained that the chargeback 
claim was handled fairly. It also didnt think she was eligible to raise a S75 claim because the 
contract wasnt with A, but with a third-party supplier  it said A was merely acting as a 
trading platform.
Ms O didnt agree with Sainsburys response and asked this service to step in. Our 
investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought it was fair for Sainsburys to say Ms O 
needed to return the phone to raise the chargeback claim. He also didnt think Ms O was 
eligible to raise a S75 claim. Finally he thought the £100 in compensation was fair 
compensation for the poor customer service Ms O had received.
Ms O didnt agree with the investigator and, in summary, raised the following points:
She wanted the investigator to listen to the telephone call of 9 July 2021 she had with 
Sainsburys. She didnt think this complaint could be investigated without doing so. 
Sainsburys told the investigator this call wasnt available, but Ms O didnt think this was 
fair.
She maintained under law it wasnt her responsibility to pay to return the phone. She 
said shed offered to return the phone at the suppliers expense. So she didnt think this 
was a valid defence under chargeback given the supplier hadnt responded to this 
request.
She queried why Sainsburys presented the claim again and also queried where the 
supplier had refunded the full amount she paid. She said she hadnt accepted that as a 
resolution, so didnt think A or Sainsburys should be using this as a defence to the 
chargeback claim.
She maintained that shed received poor customer service and didnt agree that £100 
was fair compensation.
Our investigator remained of the opinion the complaint shouldnt be upheld, so Ms O asked 
for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator for largely the same reasons. Ill now 
explain why.
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Ms Os complaint in a lot less detail 
than she has presented it. Ms O has raised a number of reasons about why shes unhappy 
with the way Sainsburys has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and every 
point shes raised but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to 
think about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature 
of this service. I assure Ms O, however, that I have read and considered everything shes 
provided.
Ms O is complaining about the way Sainsburys handled a dispute over a payment she made 
to a third party for a mobile phone. Where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction 
made on a credit card, the card provider can consider the dispute under two guises  
chargeback and S75. I would expect the card provider to consider both avenues. 
Sainsburys has done so in this case. Ill consider both avenues separately.
Chargeback 
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant. The rules under which the chargeback can be pursued are strict and are set out by the individual card scheme provider. In this case the card provider was 
Mastercard.
In this case, Sainsburys processed the chargeback claim, but A defended it on the basis 
that Ms O hadnt returned the mobile phone and the supplier had offered a partial refund. 
Sainsburys thought this was a valid defence. However, Ms O queried where in the rules it 
required her to pay to return the phone. And she set out that contract law required the 
supplier to arrange to have the goods returned where its shown they werent as described.
I appreciate Ms O feels strongly about this matter. But the chargeback rules are set out by 
Mastercard and are strict. The rules have strict guidelines where a consumer is eligible to 
process a chargeback and the relevant part of the rules set out the following:
Pre-Compliance Condition. The consumer contacted the Originating Institution (OI) claiming 
all of the following:
The consumer engaged in the transaction.
The consumer contacted the merchant, or attempted to contact the merchant, to resolve 
the dispute.
The merchant refused to adjust the price, repair or replace the goods or other things of 
value, or issue a refund.
For disputes involving goods: The consumer returned the goods or informed the 
merchant the goods were available for pickup.
I acknowledge Ms O has queried where in rules it says she needs to pay to return the goods, 
but they set out its her responsibility to arrange for the goods to be returned to the 
merchant. So it wasnt for the merchant to pay to collect them, but for her to return them. Ive 
thought about the fact the rules set out that she could inform the merchant the goods were 
available for pickup. But the merchant wasnt based in the UK. So this wasnt viable. 
Ultimately, the rules are clear here. The merchant didnt refuse to adjust the price, repair or 
replace the goods or other things of value, or issue a refund. But it said Ms O needed to 
return the phone to get a full refund. This is in line with the chargeback rules. Furthermore, 
the contract with the supplier didnt set out that Ms O was entitled to a free return. Given this, 
I dont it was unfair for Sainsburys to not continue to pursue the chargeback claim.
Ive also thought about Ms Os complaint about the way Sainsburys handled the chargeback 
claim. Ive listened to the telephone calls Sainsburys have been able to provide and Im 
satisfied the calls handlers acted in a fair and professional way on the telephone calls. That 
said, there were clearly some customer service failings. As Ms O has highlighted:
 Sainsburys promised call-backs from the disputes team on at least two occasions, but 
that didnt happen.
 She shouldnt have had to wait on hold for an hour without getting a response.
I recognise Ms O feels strongly that shes been treated unfairly. However, Im also conscious 
that the majority of Ms Os concerns and upset rest with the response Sainsburys has given 
to her chargeback claim. And for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied it handled the 
chargeback claim fairly. But she did suffer some avoidable distress and inconvenience. 
However Sainsburys has already paid £100 in compensation for this. And this is in line with 
what I would have awarded. So I dont think it needs to pay anything further.
I note Ms O thinks Sainsburys has deliberately withheld a call recording of a phone call from 
9 July 2021 that she feels is critical to our ability to assess her complaint. However, Im 
satisfied Sainsburys has looked for the call recording, but its not available. But, in any event, Im not persuaded that being able to listen to the call recording would impact the 
outcome of the complaint. Ms O has suggested that Sainsburys told her in that call that it 
made an error in the handling of the chargeback and is unhappy with the way the call was 
handled. But, as I said, Im satisfied Sainsburys handed the chargeback claim fairly. And, 
even if she was given wrong or misleading information, Im satisfied the amount its paid in 
compensation is fair compensation for whats gone wrong over the claim journey.
Section 75
Ms O paid for the mobile phone on her Sainsburys credit card. S75 sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, Sainsburys is jointly liable for any breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier.  
Sainsburys says it didnt process a S75 claim because it said she wasnt eligible to do so. 
Ms O disputes this.
As I said above, in order for S75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied  
one of which is establishing a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS) between the parties. 
In this case, Sainsburys paid A on Ms Os behalf, but Ms Os contract was not with A but 
with a third-party supplier. A acted as an online trading platform whereby third parties can 
sell goods. A provided a dispute resolution arm under the form of a buyer guarantee. But this 
doesnt mean Ms Os contract was with A. Ms O doesnt have a claim against A for the 
alleged breach of contract, but the dispute is with the supplier. So, for this reason, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Sainsburys to not process a S75 claim in this instance.
I note Ms O also complained to Sainsburys about the way it handled the S75 claim and how 
it communicated with her on this. But shes asked this service to not look at this complaint. 
So I havent commented any further on this.
Summary
I acknowledge Ms O feels strongly about whats happened and that she feels the 
chargeback claim should have succeeded. But for the reasons Ive set out above, Im 
satisfied Sainsburys considered the claim fairly. And I dont think it was unreasonable for it 
to not continue to pursue the claim. That said, I dont think Ms O received the customer 
service she was entitled to expect. But I think the £100 compensation Sainsburys has paid 
for this is fair. And I dont think it needs to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think the £100 compensation 
Sainsburys Bank Plc has paid Ms O is fair compensation. And I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman