DRN-2486724
The complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank acted unfairly in 
relation to payments he made, breaching his confidentiality and causing him 
embarrassment.
What happened
Mr W has explained that, when on holiday in the Canary Islands (which hes visited several 
times), he made friends with someone working in the hotel. He says they reminded him of a 
late family member, and he decided to help with their university fees. A manager at the hotel 
helped Mr Ws friend set up an online bank account, which was registered in Germany. 
Ive seen records that show Mr W made around seven international transfers to his friend 
between October 2019 and January 2020. Most were for a few hundred Euros, but some 
were higher  such as a payment for €4,000 in October 2019. Mr W made the transfers in 
branch. Yorkshire Bank asked him questions about the payments. He told the branch staff 
what the payments were for, as recorded on the payment slips (e.g. gift, help with rent, etc.), 
and that he wasnt being scammed. He says he provided evidence of this, such as invoices 
for the university fees. 
Still worried that Mr W might be the victim of a scam, a branch member reported their 
concerns to the police. I understand he had mentioned making substantially larger payments 
to his friend in future. The police visited Mr W at home. He says he had a district nurse with 
him, who the police officer spoke in front of. And there was also a coffee morning going on in 
the residence lounge. The incident caused him embarrassment. 
When Mr W complained to Yorkshire Bank, it said it had contacted the police to protect him 
from fraud. Our investigator thought Yorkshire Bank had acted reasonably. But Mr W didnt 
agree. He said the investigator had got his friends job wrong. And that the branch member 
who called the police was jealous and has since been sacked or left. Our investigator 
reiterated that he still thought the bank had acted reasonably as its expected to call the 
police in some situations, and he understood why it did so here. As no agreement was 
reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Particularly in light of the increasingly sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which 
banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer, there are expectations on 
banks to have measures in place to look out for indications that its customers are at risk from 
fraud. When such a risk is identified, wed expect the bank to respond appropriately. This 
may include following the Banking Protocol, where appropriate, for branch transactions.
As our investigator explained, the Banking Protocol is a multi-agency initiative between 
financial sector organisations, Trading Standards and the police. It aims to provide 
consistency around identifying, and acting on, indications of fraud and scams.
In line with the Banking Protocol and good industry practice, senior branch staff are 
expected to call the police in situations where they believe their customer is the victim of a 
fraud or scam  even if theyre not sure. 
In this instance, the police were called by branch staff, with approval from their manager, 
due to a concern that Mr W might be the victim of a scam. I consider this reasonable, as 
there were several indicators here that Yorkshire Bank was acting on. There are common 
scams where consumers are tricked into making overseas payments (which often means 
they have less protection if something goes wrong). Mr W was making reasonably frequent 
payments, for not insignificant amounts, to his friend. And whilst he met his friend in the 
Canary Islands, he was sending money to a German bank  which would have looked 
unusual (although I appreciate Mr w has explained this was due to the hotel manager being 
German). 
Yorkshire Bank didnt prevent the payments from going through  it acted in line with Mr Ws 
instructions. But the staff still felt it was prudent to call the police so they could speak to him 
about the risks and indications this could be a scam. I appreciate this hasnt deterred Mr W, 
and he still feels confident and satisfied with the payments hes made. But Yorkshire Bank 
had to balance the risk of causing Mr W upset and inconvenience against the risk he was 
losing out due to fraud. I dont consider the judgement call it made here to be wrong. It was 
ultimately acting to protect Mr W.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, who I know feels strongly about this complaint. Whilst I accept 
and appreciate that he was embarrassed by what happened, I can only award redress for 
losses he suffered due to Yorkshire Banks errors. And in all the circumstances, Im satisfied 
it acted reasonably when it called the police.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman