DRN-4166363
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Nationwide Building Society wont refund money they lost when 
they were victims of a scam. 
Mr and Mrs P are represented by a firm that Ill refer to as E.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
On 31 March 2018 Mr and Mrs P transferred £20,000, by way of two £10,000 payments, to a 
firm Ill refer to as W to invest in a five-year bond. Mr and Mrs P received an £800 return 
from the investment in January 2019. W subsequently went into liquidation. 
E complained to Nationwide, on Mr and Mrs Ps behalf, in November 2022 saying this 
payment was made as part of an investment scam. And, as they considered Nationwide 
failed in their duty of care to protect Mr and Mrs P from it, they thought Nationwide should 
refund Mr and Mrs P the investment sum theyd lost plus 8% interest. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint and, in short, they said:
They didnt think they did anything wrong and considered the matter to be a civil 
dispute, rather than a scam. This was because the payments were made to a 
genuine company, which entered liquidation in April 2021, but were incorporated 
since September 2015  and so, had been registered as a genuine business for 
several years prior. 
They also noted Mr and Mrs P also received an £800 payment from the investment in 
January 2019  thereby suggesting it wasnt a scam but an unsuccessful investment. 
Whether or not the duty for Nationwide to delay a payment to seek further 
information, in circumstances where the payment was high value and significant risk 
factors were present, they didnt fall short of this standard given there were no 
significant risk factors associated with the payments. 
The payments werent unusual for Mr and Mrs P as thered been large transfers and 
credits in the account resulting in these appearing as usual activity and spend. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but he didnt think Nationwide had to do anything 
further. He said the payments werent particularly unusual or suspicious in appearance to 
Nationwide considering Mr and Mrs Ps prior account activity. So, he wouldnt have expected 
Nationwide to have intervened before releasing the payments. 
E disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, they said:
They referred to the Quincecare duty in that a bank has a duty to exercise reasonable care 
and skill when executing customer instructions. And if there are reasonable grounds for 
believing theres an attempt to misappropriate funds, the bank shouldnt facilitate the 
payment. Here, the payments from Mr and Mrs Ps bank account were of a significant value. 
As such, it shouldve been identified by Nation as unusual  thereby prompting the bank to 
intervene by contacting Mr and Mrs P. 
Nationwide had a duty to prevent harm that is reasonably foreseeable, which it was here as 
Mr and Mrs P could have made a loss because of authorising a large transaction to a new 
payee. 
The British Standards Institution (BSI) issued PAS 17271 which confirms what should be 
considered unusual activity and, ultimately, when a bank should intervene when a payment 
is authorised. From this, the payments shouldve been flagged for two reasons:
The payments were of a large amount of money  and its important to note nothing 
within this document states if the customer makes regular large payments then bank 
should not flag these payments. It confirms any large payment should be flagged. 
The payment was made to a new payee.
When looking at Mr and Mrs Ps transactions over £5,000 in the 12 months prior to the 
scam, the only non-regulated payment activity took place on 31 March 2018. They dont 
think it is appropriate to suggest by the amount and volume of account activity, that the scam 
payments were usual for Mr and Mrs P. And payments being sent to registered or non-
registered businesses shouldve also been identified and raised concerns with the bank. 
Although Nationwide couldnt provide financial advice to Mr and Mrs P, they were able to 
provide warnings and question the information they received. This wouldve led to the bank 
becoming aware Mr and Mrs P had been cold called by W about the investment opportunity 
 which isnt allowed. And that the person offering it wasnt qualified or regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority to provide such advice. Further, Nationwide wouldve been 
aware such bonds ought to have only been promoted to high-net-worth individuals or 
sophisticated investors, which Mr and Mrs P werent.
If the bank had warned Mr and Mrs P there was even a moderate risk of losing all the 
money, they wouldnt have proceeded with making the payments. 
Had the bank intervened, the scam wouldve been uncovered and protected Mr and Mrs P 
from becoming a victim. 
Mr and Mrs P were vulnerable at the time of the investment as they were over 65 years of 
age, retired early and had suffered ill-health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr and Mrs P have lost a significant sum of money. But while I know this isnt the 
outcome theyre hoping for, I dont think Nationwide has acted unfairly by not refunding their 
loss for similar reasons to our Investigator. In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the 
evidence E has provided and so if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I 
havent considered it, but Ive focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the 
outcome of this complaint.Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a refund 
following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams. But the CRM code didnt come into effect 
until 28 May 2019 and doesnt apply retrospectively. This means, as Mr and Mrs Ps 
payments were made before this, theyre not covered under the CRM code. Ive therefore 
considered whether Nationwide should reimburse Mr and Mrs P under any of their other 
obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that their customer authorises them to make. It isnt disputed that 
Mr and Mrs P knowingly made the payments from their Nationwide account and so, Im 
satisfied they authorised it. Therefore, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and 
the terms of their account, Nationwide are expected to process the payments and Mr and 
Mrs P are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Nationwide 
to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instruction given by Mr and Mrs P to Nationwide 
was unusual in relation to their typical account activity. 
When considering this, Ive taken into consideration BSI PAS17271 as referred to by E. At 
which point however, I think its relevant to note that it sets out examples of suspicious 
activity on customer accounts for banks to look for as indicators of fraud or financial abuse. It 
therefore isnt a definitive or exhaustive list, nor does it specify  for example - what specific 
amount constitutes a large withdrawal or payment. And so, given banks must strike a 
balance between customers being to be able to use their account and questioning 
transactions to confirm theyre legitimate, I think its reasonable to consider suspicious 
activity in the context of the individuals account usage. 
Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Ps account statements, Ive seen they made a significant 
number of payments of the same value shortly before the two disputed scam payments. This 
includes 25 payments of £10,000 on 23 March 2018 and 36 payments of £10,000 on 24 
March 2018. They also made several other transactions between £5,000 and £10,000 as 
well as a payment of £135,000 on 29 March 2018. Because of this, I dont think the two 
£10,000 payments were unusual in relation to Mr and Mrs Ps typical account activity. In my 
view, these payments were in line with normal account use and not of an unusual enough 
value to have appeared out of character to Nationwide. 
Ive also considered that these payments were made to a new payee, which is one of the 
examples within BSI PAS17271 of what could be considered suspicious activity. In these 
particular circumstances however, when considering the significant number of other genuine 
payments of the same value, I dont think there wouldve been sufficient reason for 
Nationwide to think Mr and Mrs P were at risk of financial harm  regardless of whether the 
funds were being sent to a registered or non-registered business - due it going to a new 
payee. Nor would I have expected Nationwide to have been aware, from the payment 
information alone, that they were being made in relation to non-regulated activities. I 
therefore dont think Nationwide wouldve had reason to consider the payments as 
suspicious, thereby prompting them to intervene before processing them. 
Ive noted that E has referred to Mr and Mrs P being vulnerable at the time of the payments 
due to their age and being retired. Nationwide however are only expected to intervene where 
there is a reasonable belief that their customer is at risk of financial harm from fraud. And so, 
while Ive considered this, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ps age or retired status wouldve given them sufficient reason to think this  particularly, as Ive explained, as the payments were in 
line with their typical account usage. Ive also not seen anything to show Nationwide had 
been informed of the ill-health E has referred to their client(s) suffered from. So, taking all of 
this into consideration, I dont think Nationwide ought to have done more before following the 
instructions Mr and Mrs P gave.
E has made reference to what wouldve happened if Nationwide had intervened and 
contacted Mr and Mrs P. As Ive concluded it was reasonable for Nationwide to follow 
Mr and Mrs Ps instructions without carrying out any additional checks, I dont feel it 
necessary to consider these points. 
Im sorry to hear Mr and Mrs P have suffered a significant financial loss as result of what 
happened. But it would only be fair for me to direct Nationwide to refund their loss if I thought 
the bank was responsible  and Im not persuaded that this was the case. For the above 
reasons, I think Nationwide has acted fairly and so Im not going to tell them to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman