DRN-4237601
The complaint
Ms C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) failed to set up a six month overdraft 
reduction plan that had been agreed. Ms C wants Lloyds to offer the plan that was originally 
agreed. 
What happened
Ms C had an account with Lloyds with an £850 overdraft facility. In August 2021 Ms C 
agreed a six month overdraft reducing plan to reduce her overdraft to £730 but the plan was 
never set up. Ms C only got in touch with Lloyds about this in September 2022 over 12 
months later. Ms C provided Lloyds with her income and expenditure but it wasnt enough for 
Lloyds to agree the original plan.
Ms C complained to Lloyds about this. Lloyds agreed to refund 13 months worth of fees 
which totalled £214.72. This worked out to more than what Ms Cs overdraft wouldve 
reduced by if a plan had been agreed. Lloyds also compensated Ms C £50 and says it 
suspended daily overdraft fees until May 2023.
Ms Cs current overdraft stands at £850 and is utilised up to its full limit. Lloyds says to work 
out if a further plan is possible Ms C needs to speak with its financial assistance team and 
provide her income and expenditure so it can provide the right support.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Cs concerns and reached the conclusion that in 
order to set up a plan Lloyds needs up to date information on Ms Cs financial circumstances 
to assess affordability and didnt think it was unfair of Lloyds to ask for this. Furthermore, 
Lloyds is under no obligation to agree a repayment plan if it isnt affordable.
Ms C disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, I think what Lloyds have already done to support Ms 
C is enough and Im not going to ask that it do anything more.
My role is to consider what Ms C has experienced and see if Lloyds has done anything 
wrong or treated Ms C unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Ms C back in the 
position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
In Ms Cs case its not disputed that Lloyds failed to set up an overdraft reducing plan so the 
question I have to ask is whether what Lloyds have done to put things right is fair and 
reasonable. 
To put Ms C back in the position she wouldve been in if Lloyds hadnt made a mistake one 
option would be to set up another overdraft repayment plan. But that isnt the only option and 
might well not be the best option  as it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to set up a plan that 
based on Ms Cs current circumstances that wasnt affordable for her or one in which Lloyds 
had little prospect of being paid back the overdraft debt Ms C owes. 
So I dont think it is unreasonable that Lloyds ask Ms C to speak to its financial assistance 
team and go through Ms Cs income and expenditure before agreeing another plan. And if 
based on this information Lloyds deems a plan unaffordable or not commercially viable, I 
dont think Lloyds is treating Ms C unfairly by not offering her a plan.  
Furthermore, Lloyds have already refunded and suspended around 21 months worth of 
overdraft fees which has put Ms C in a better position than she wouldve been had the plan 
been set up correctly  and compensated her £50. 
I note that it was over 12 months before Ms C contacted Lloyds about the failed reduction 
plan yet during this time Ms C continued to transact on the account and at times her 
overdraft balance was reduced well below the £730 limit the plan was set to get her to. I 
think its likely during this period Ms C wouldve had some understanding about what her 
balance was and I think if shed chosen to  going by what the transactions on her 
statements show  she couldve kept herself within the £730 limit. So on this basis I think the 
£50 compensation paid to Ms C is fair and Im not persuaded further compensation is 
warranted. 
So overall and having considered everything Im not going to uphold Ms Cs complaint as I 
think Lloyds has already done enough to put things right for her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman