DRN-2651245
The complaint
Mr W complains that Debt Managers (Services) Limited (DMSL) is chasing him for a debt 
that isnt his. 
 
What happened
In November 2019 DMSL acquired a debt in the same name as Mr W. DMSL was unable to 
get in contact with the borrower using the details provided by the original lender. As a result, 
DMSL completed a trace that produced Mr Ws details and contacted him. Mr W complained 
and DMSL said he can provide evidence to verify he was living at his registered debt in April 
2018 so it can complete its investigation. 
Mr W, in turn, says hes not the borrower and has never held an account with the original 
lender. Mr W says he doesnt want to share confidential information with DMSL, a business 
he has no connection to, and has declined to send documents to verify his address in April 
2018. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Mr W sent 
the investigator evidence to show where he was living in April 2018 but said he didnt want to 
share it with DMSL. Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint and said that as he had 
shown us evidence of his address in April 2018 DMSL should stop chasing him for the 
outstanding balance. DMSL asked to appeal and said it had supplied trace evidence by way 
of a spreadsheet and needed address verification documents to complete its investigation. 
DMSL asked to appeal so Mr Ws complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr W has said, his name is not unusual and its possible this is a case of a false positive 
following DMSLs trace. I understand DMSL has asked for address verification documents 
for the April 2018 so it can investigate whether to remove Mr Ws details from the debt and 
stop chasing him. But I have to be fair to both parties. Mr W has told us the debt isnt his, he 
has never borrowed from the original lender and has no relationship with DMSL. Mr W says 
he doesnt want to share private information, like a copy of his mortgage statement, with 
DMSL. 
Ive looked at the available information and I can see DMSL have sent us a spreadsheet that 
it says shows Mr W was traced. But DMSL hasnt provided any explanatory guidance or said 
how Mr Ws details were found, beyond confirming a trace was completed. That being said, I 
can see Mr Ws details were found when DMSL carried out its trace. 
Our investigator asked DMSL to provide other supporting evidence, including a copy of the 
original lenders credit agreement. But DMSL has confirmed no credit agreement is 
available. I havent seen any record of payments made to the debt or any other supporting 
information that indicates Mr W was the borrower. 
DMSL requested evidence of Mr Ws address in April 2018. Whilst he hasnt supplied it to 
DMSL, he was willing to share it with this service and sent a copy of his 2018 mortgage 
statement. That confirms Mr Ws address in April 2018 was the same as the one DMSL is 
contacting him at. 
Mr W has also supplied correspondence with a credit reference agency that shows it 
removed disputed entries on his credit file during the period in question. As our investigator 
has said, its possible DMSLs trace was caused by one of these disputed entries.  
Were an impartial service and dont act for either side. Whilst I understand it is DMSLs 
normal process to ask for documents to be sent directly, I think the investigator reached a 
reasonable compromise when he asked Mr W to send us the relevant document. In this 
case, like the investigator, Ive seen the mortgage statement from 2018 Mr W sent us and 
can confirm it matches the address DMSL has contacted him at. 
Whilst I understand DMSL wants to see the mortgage statement (or other evidence) I think 
its reasonable for it to accept confirmation from our service that weve seen it. And that it 
verifies Mr Ws address in April 2018 was in line with his current address.  
DMSL has been unable to provide a copy of the credit agreement. And theres no record of 
anything, beyond the trace it completed, that links Mr W to the debt. Mr W has provided 
evidence to this service, an impartial third party, that confirms his address in 2018. Having 
considered all the available information, I agree that it would be unfair for DMSL to continue 
pursuing Mr W for repayment of the debt. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Debt Management (Services) Limited to 
stop pursuing Mr W for the debt and ensure theres no link to him going forward.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman