DRN-3303396
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way in which AXA PPP Healthcare Limited handled his private 
medical insurance claim.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy makes it clear that when specialist treatment is needed, the GP should 
provide whats called an open referral. This means the GP doesnt name a particular 
specialist, but instead says the type of specialist the insured needs to see. 
However, if the insured would prefer to see a specific specialist, or the GP has 
already named a specialist, the policy explains that AXA will confirm whether it will 
cover that specialists fees.
When Mr C initially contacted AXA, he explained that hed undergone a scan and 
was awaiting the results. He thought he may be referred to an Ear, Nose and Throat 
(ENT) specialist. AXA advised him that hed need a referral letter from his GP (as 
well as a clinic letter confirming the treatment/investigations hed had), and then it 
could assess the claim. He was told that if the claim was approved, AXA could help 
him find a nearby ENT specialist.
Mr C sent AXA an appointment letter from an NHS hospital which referred to a 
specialists clinic, but this wasnt the initial GP referral letter that AXA wanted. AXA 
responded to Mr C in writing and requested the GP referral letter. 
I think AXA made a reasonable request, as it needed confirmation of the type of 
specialist that Mr Cs GP wanted him to see, and the reason for the referral. I 
wouldnt have expected AXA to make assumptions about this, based on the NHS 
hospital appointment letter. 
I therefore dont find that AXA did anything wrong here. 
Mr C has also raised some concerns he has with the sale of the policy. If Mr C would 
like this service to look into this aspect of his complaint, he should let our investigator 
know. We can then set up a separate complaint against the seller of the policy.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman