DRN-2673547
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has declined his claim for a cancelled 
trip. 
Mr Ls mother, Mrs L is representing him on this complaint and has been the main point of 
contact.
What happened
Mrs L took out an annual travel policy on 14 January 2020 to cover a trip for a ski 
championship, which her son was due to attend. The trip was planned to start on 
28 March 2020 and end on 10 April 2020.
On 17 March 2020, the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential international travel. On 18 March, the trip was cancelled by the travel provider and 
on 19 March, Mrs L submitted a claim for £1,400 to Ageas for cancelling the trip due to 
Covid-19. The invoice from the travel provider said the cancellation was in response to the 
FCO advice. 
Ageas accepted a claim for costs which were not recoverable. But it also said £1,400 was 
recoverable from the travel provider and so declined this part of the claim. Ageas said the 
travel provider was responsible for providing a refund as it cancelled the trip. It suggested 
Mrs L make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 or a chargeback  
depending on whether she had paid by credit card or debit card. Mrs L says she paid by 
BACS and so it wasnt open to her to pursue the costs via section 75 or chargeback.
Unhappy with Ageas response, Mrs L brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and upheld it because she didnt think Ageas had acted fairly in 
declining the claim. 
Ageas said Mrs L should obtain a refund from the travel provider because it says the trip 
booked was a package. Our investigator thought the provider was a ski club and more likely 
a lead traveller in a group booking. The terms of the policy do not exclude packages and 
while Mrs L tried to obtain a refund from the provider, she wasnt successful. She said it 
wasnt reasonable for Mrs L to continue pursuing this and because the provider wasnt a 
package provider, she had no further recourse. 
In terms of pursuing the claim via a section 75 or chargeback, our investigator didnt think 
this was reasonable. This hadnt been specified in the policy terms and conditions and there 
was no contractual obligation for Mrs L to make such a claim. As such, she recommended 
Ageas pay the claim. At this point, the travel provider offered £700 in the form of a credit for 
future trips. So, the investigator recommended Ageas pay £700 plus 8% simple interest for 
the outstanding recoverable cost.
Ageas didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So its 
been passed to me. 
In summary, Ageas said:
The fact remains the travel provider cancelled the trip and did not provide the service 
to the customer; 
The travel provider cancelled the holiday not the customer. The policy wording is 
clear in that it will cover cancellation in the event that the customer cancels, not the 
travel provider; and
Mrs L booked a package holiday and so the cost is recoverable elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is an alternative to the courts which settles disputes informally taking into 
account what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that Ageas has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions
The cancellation section of the policy says Mr L is covered for certain expenses under the 
cancellation and curtailment section:   
CANCELLATION AND CURTAILMENT
1 We will pay up to the amount shown on the schedule following an event giving rise 
to a claim under this insurance which occurs during the period of insurance for any 
monies you have paid, or which you are contracted to pay, up to the final invoice cost 
of the trip, (excluding the insurance premium), including the cost of locally purchased 
services, in respect of your travel and accommodation costs and other expenses 
which are not recoverable elsewhere, but not exceeding the amount shown in the 
schedule in total if you have to cancel or curtail all or part of your trip following.
(x) a warning issued by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office that a country or 
countries you had intended to travel to should be avoided or they have advised 
against travel, provided this warning was issued after to booked insurance and your 
trip. 
It is a condition of the contract of the insurance policy that the consumer contacts the 
provider to obtain a refund, if available, or to rebook.
Was it unreasonable for Ageas to decline the claim?
Mrs L says they didnt cancel their trip, it was the provider who cancelled upon the 
government announcing immediate restrictions. So on a strict interpretation of the policy 
terms, Mrs L didnt cancel their trip. But I can depart from a strict application of the policy 
terms if I think that produces an unfair result. 
In this case, it doesnt make a difference whether the travel provider and other providers, or 
Mrs L, cancelled. Thats because the FCO advised against all but essential travel on 
17 March 2020 as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, eleven days before they were due to 
travel. So even if the providers hadnt cancelled the booking, following the closure of all non-
essential public places in France, Mrs L would have been entitled to cancel their trip after the change in FCO guidance and claim on the policy, in line with the policy terms. They booked 
this trip before the change in guidance. So I think it would be fair and reasonable for Ageas 
to consider their claim as falling within the scope of the cancellation section of the policy.
Ageas has also relied on the section of the policy terms which say the claim wouldnt be paid 
if the costs are recoverable elsewhere. Ageas say the costs should be recovered from the 
travel provider because the trip was booked as a package. They included an extract from 
the Package Travel Regulations (PTR) 2018 which sets out the definition of a package 
holiday. 
Im not persuaded that the trip was a package holiday to which the PTR 2018 applies. Its not 
very clear from the booking invoice but I dont think thats central to the outcome of this 
complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
Mrs L has asked for a refund from the travel provider and theyve declined, offering to pay 
half the costs as a gesture of goodwill in the form of a voucher. Mrs L therefore only seeks to 
recover the outstanding £700. The website for the provider says its a registered charity, 
theres no evidence that they are members of a trade body or association that offers to 
refund unrecoverable costs or offers a dispute resolution service. So, based on the evidence 
available, Mrs L doesnt have the option to try and recover the outstanding costs through, for 
example, a trade body scheme or other dispute resolution scheme. 
The providers website and correspondence also demonstrate that its most likely they will not 
offer a refund in the event of a cancellation. And I can see Mrs L has also provided 
confirmation of this in the form of a letter from the provider which she also sent to Ageas. 
Ageas says its taken its view from government guidance and from the Competitions and 
Markets Authority (CMA). But having considered this, the over-arching view from both is that 
businesses should treat customers fairly and responsibly and may include trying to find a 
mutually acceptable solution.  Ive also taken into account the relevant regulatory guidance 
which sets out that it generally wouldnt be reasonable to expect a consumer to go to court to 
recover their losses. 
Overall, taking all of the above into account, Im not persuaded Ageas has treated Mrs L and 
her son fairly and reasonably. As far as I can see, Mrs L has taken all reasonable steps to 
recover her money and her only option would be to take this to court. But to take a such a 
route could take a significant period of time and effort on her part. Mrs L has paid for a travel 
insurance policy, one which includes cover for unused costs and one which could cover their 
claim. So, in all the circumstances, I dont think it is fair and r easonable to expect Mrs L to 
pursue these costs any further from the provider directly. 
Ageas also told Mrs L if she had booked by credit card or debit card, she should contact the 
credit/debit card provider about a refund. So she should recover her money through a 
section 75 claim or chargeback through the card provider. From the information available, 
Mrs L didnt pay for the trip with her credit card. But even if she did, as the relevant policy 
exclusion doesnt specify that she has to do this, I dont think theres a contractual obligation 
on Mrs L to do that. I dont therefore think its reasonable for Ageas to reject the claim on this 
basis. 
Taking all of the above into account, Im not persuaded that it is reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case to decline Mrs Ls claim on the basis that the costs are 
recoverable from the providers. Shes taken all reasonable steps to recover her money 
elsewhere. As such, Im satisfied the fair and reasonable outcome is for Ageas to pay the 
claim in line with the policy terms and limits, minus any applicable excess, plus interest.  Mrs L has said that the provider has offered a £700 credit towards any future trips and 
training as a gesture of goodwill. It would be fair therefore for Ageas to pay the remainder 
£700, minus any applicable excess, plus interest as detailed below.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint against Ageas Insurance 
Limited.
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs Ls claim in line with the policy terms, minus 
any applicable excess, plus 8% simple interest a year from the date of the claim to the date 
of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman