DRN-2801565
The complaint
Mrs K complains that when she claimed on her legal expenses insurance policy Fairmead 
Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General put pressure on her to use panel solicitors, 
then rejected the claim, giving different and unclear reasons for the decision. 
Where I refer to Fairmead this includes it agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs K wanted to bring a claim against her employer in the employment tribunal. She 
instructed solicitors and in May 2019 they made a claim on the policy on her behalf. They 
said Mrs K had been diagnosed with a condition in March 2018 and had asked her employer 
to make reasonable adjustments for her but this wasnt dealt with until July 2018 and not 
actioned until August 2018. There were further issues after that date. In April 2019 she 
raised a grievance and then in May the solicitors lodged the claim on her policy.
Fairmead asked for more information from Mrs Ks solicitors. After considering the 
information provided, Fairmead said the claim wasnt covered, because the dispute had 
started before she took out her policy or alternatively within the first 90 days of the policy and 
such clams were excluded under the policy terms. But Fairmead did acknowledge there had 
been some poor service and offered compensation of £100 for that.
When Mrs K brought her complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said the information Fairmead had asked for was relevant to its decision; it 
hadnt put undue pressure on Mrs K to use panel solicitors; the decision to reject the claim 
was in line with the policy terms; and the compensation of £100 in respect of the service 
issues was reasonable.
Mrs K disagreed and her solicitors provided further comments. The investigator considered 
these but didnt change her view. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for employment disputes. But theres no cover if the insured event 
happens before the policy is taken out or within the first 90 days after the policy starts. 
Terms like this are common in legal expenses policies; insurers dont generally wish to 
provide cover in these circumstances.
Insured event is defined in the policy as an incident or event that leads to legal action. If 
there is more than one event arising at different times from the same originating cause, the 
date of occurrence is the date of the first event.
So if Mrs K was already in dispute with her employer when she took out the policy, or within 
90 days of the policy starting, then theres no cover. And where there is a series of 
connected events, I need to consider the date of the first event.
There was an issue in March 2018, when Mrs K contacted her employer and asked for 
adjustments to be made. That was before policy started. I appreciate Fairmead accepted 
Mrs Ks solicitors view that the relevant date should be the point at which the employer 
should reasonably have made the adjustments, rather than the date when she requested 
them. But that is accepted to have been in May or June 2018. So even if I take that as the 
relevant date, thats within the 90 days of the policy starting. On this basis Im satisfied the 
claim wasnt covered.
Mrs Ks solicitors say some of the issues arising in the employment claim happened at a 
later date, so they should be covered. But I dont think its possible to split the claim in that 
way. The insured event is defined as the date of the first event. So even if some events 
happened later, if the first event was within the 90 day period, the claim isnt covered.
Mrs K is also unhappy with the way the claim was dealt with. I appreciate there was some 
discussion about using panel solicitors but having reviewed the discussions I dont think 
there was undue pressure on her to do so. There were some issues with communication. 
While Fairmead may have given the impression initially that the claim would be accepted, it 
did need to gather information and assess the claim. It was reasonable to do that and, as 
Ive explained, its decision was in line with the policy terms. The discussions may have left 
things a little unclear initially. But the decision was made a month or so after the claim was 
made so there werent any long delays. In my view £100 compensation is reasonable for any 
mis-communication or poor service during that period. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman