DRN-4024608
The complaint
Mr D on behalf of Mr Ls estate complains about the delay caused by Cofunds Limited in 
transferring Mr Ls investments, resulting in a higher inheritance tax liability than anticipated. 
Mr D is the executor for the estate. 
What happened
In 2018 Mr L received financial advice to mitigate his inheritance tax liability (IHT) by 
transferring and investing funds from his estate into an AIM investment plan run by another 
provider that Ill call X. The funds amounted to approximately £200,000, around £32,000 of 
this had come from Mr Ls cash reserves and the remaining funds were held within Mr Ls 
stocks and shares ISA with Cofunds.   
Cofunds received Mr Ls instructions to sell down and transfer his ISA funds on 3 September 
2018. But due to delays, it didnt complete until 12 October 2018  once the transfer had 
completed Mr Ls funds were invested as he intended. 
On 16 October 2020 Mr L sadly passed away, in order for the estate to benefit from the IHT 
relief the investment needed to be held over two years. But Mr Ls funds were not entirely 
invested for the qualifying period, and this resulted in a higher inheritance tax liability than 
originally anticipated by the estate. 
Unhappy about this, Mr D complained to Cofunds. He said, due to the delay in transferring 
Mr Ls funds the estate was liable to an IHT bill of around £41,819.19. Had it not been for its 
error the funds wouldve been fully invested within the two-year qualifying period and so to 
put things right he said Cofunds should pay the tax bill. 
Cofunds looked into Mr Ds concerns but didnt uphold the complaint. In short it said whilst it 
had delayed the transfer it didnt think it was responsible for paying the tax bill. It said Mr L 
couldve instructed it to transfer sooner than he did, it wasnt aware that the transfer was 
time sensitive and had it known, it wouldve prioritised the transfer. Because of its error, 
Cofunds offered £1336.77 for the financial loss caused by delaying the sale and transfer of 
Mr Ls ISA plus £35.18 interest. As well as £300 compensation in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience its error caused, so a total of £1671.95. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld. During 
his investigation he confirmed with X what was the likely timescale of the funds being 
invested into the qualifying investment had Cofunds not delayed the sale and transfer. This 
was to determine whether the delay did cause an issue. It said, had it received the funds 
sooner it estimated that at least 88.6% of the funds couldve been invested by 16 October 
2018 and so wouldve qualified for IHT exemption. Our Investigator said Cofunds would 
need to pay Mr Ls estate the amount they wouldve saved on their IHT bill as it had caused 
delays resulting in the funds not being invested for as long as they needed to. 
Cofunds didnt agree, in summary it maintained its original position on why it didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. It said Mr L couldve planned for an IHT liability much sooner 
than he did. It also said there was some delay between Mr L receiving financial advice to 
invest in the AIM investment plan to when he acted on the advice and so the loss couldve 
been mitigated. 
I sent my provisional decision on 24 February 2023. My findings, which also form part of this 
decision, were as follows: 
My provisional findings 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Having considered everything, I broadly agree with the conclusions reached by our 
Investigator, Ill explain why. 
All parties agree there was a delay in transferring Mr Ls funds to another provider. When a 
business has delayed a transfer, I firstly need to consider if there was any financial impact. 
Mr D has said £32,000 of Mr Ls funds were transferred from Cofunds without delay. This 
was invested intime to qualify for the IHT tax relief and so there were no issues with this 
transfer. But Mr L also instructed Cofunds to transfer approximately £190,000 which took 
almost six weeks to complete and so the majority of this didnt qualify for the IHT exemption. 
Cofunds has recognised it caused delays, from what Ive seen it received the request to 
transfer out on 3 September 2018 and the transfer completed on 12 October 2018. Cofunds 
has said if everything was processed within its usual timescales the transfer wouldve 
completed by 14 September 2018. Mr L sadly passed away on 16 October 2020 which 
meant the majority of the funds transferred to the other provider hadnt been invested into 
the AIM investment fund in time and fell outside the scope of the IHT relief benefit.  
Its difficult to know with any certainty what wouldve happened but for the delays, so Ive 
thought about what was more likely to have happened if the funds had transferred within a 
reasonable amount of time. Ive seen evidence from X, it confirmed the transfer was 
received by it from Cofunds, in cleared full funds on 15 October 2018. From this point it took 
about six weeks to fully invest into the AIM investment fund. Ive seen a breakdown which 
illustrates, based on the trajectory the investment took the funds would have been invested 
in full by 2 November 2018. As Ive said, Mr L passed away on 16 October 2020 so only the 
funds that were invested by this date wouldve benefited from the IHT tax relief. X estimated 
that had it received funds sooner than it did, by 16 October 2018, 88.6% of the funds 
wouldve most likely qualified for tax relief and Im persuaded this would likely be the case.  
Cofunds hasnt provided an explanation as to why the transfer didnt complete sooner but it 
has confirmed it caused unnecessary delays. I appreciate it says it wasnt made aware that 
the investment was time sensitive but looking at the bigger picture there was no certainty as 
to when Mr L wouldve passed away. In any event at the time Mr L received the advice 
around mitigating the estates IHT liabilities it was not known how long Mr L was likely to 
survive and so I cant fairly conclude that Mr L contributed to the loss incurred by not seeking 
advice sooner or by not planning for IHT liabilities sooner. 
Cofunds also questioned why Mr L didnt act sooner on the financial advice he received in 
2018, again I cant say for certain why it took him a couple of months to request the transfer, 
but I dont think this carries much weight in that it was Mr Ls decision as to if and when he 
acted on that advice. It was Cofunds responsibility to ensure that the transfer completed 
within a reasonable amount of time, and I cant say that it did. 
I am satisfied, but for the delays caused by Cofunds most of Mr Ls funds wouldve been 
invested into his intended IHT vehicle for two years at the date he passed away. If this had 
happened, the estate wouldnt have been liable to pay a tax bill. 
Response to provisional decision 
Mr D responded to say he on behalf of Mr Ls estate accepted my findings. But said he didnt 
think the estate had received £1671.95 previously offered by Cofunds. Our Investigator got 
in touch with Cofunds, it confirmed £1336.77 was credited to Mr Ls ISA wrapper on 25 March 2021. The trouble and upset offer of £300 plus the loss of interest of £35.18 was 
made in its complaint response on 29 March 2021. It confirmed it hadnt yet paid £335.18 but 
was willing to pay this if it was provided with the correct account details. Mr D provided the 
estate account details and confirmed he was willing to await my final decision. Id like to 
point out now that I wont be directing Cofunds to pay the trouble and upset offer and so 
Mr D should get in touch with Cofunds directly to find out if it is willing to pay this.
  
Cofunds replied and said it thinks Mr Ls representatives were the ones with the primary 
responsibility to address succession wealth planning and part of that responsibility was to 
take appropriate timely action. It went on to say, the decision to transfer out in an attempt to 
avoid IHT was a high-risk strategy and so it thinks the financial loss was due to contributory 
negligence on the part of Mr L, his representative, his financial advisor and Cofunds. It thinks 
all parties should share the responsibility for the loss.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any additional evidence that leads me to a different conclusion 
here. Cofunds has argued that Mr L, his representative and his financial advisor should bear 
some responsibility for the loss due to contributory negligence. Ive considered this but I 
dont agree.  
I addressed this point within my provisional findings but for completeness Ill address it again 
here. Mr D on behalf of Mr L acted on the financial advice to invest into an AIM investment 
plan to mitigate any potential IHT liability. At the time Mr L received the advice it was not 
known how long Mr L was likely to survive and so I cant fairly conclude that Mr L, his 
representative or financial advisor can be considered to be partially responsible for the loss 
incurred. 
Taking action to mitigate IHT later in life is not in itself negligent  there was no certainty as 
to how long Mr L wouldve survived and so Im not persuaded Mr L knew or reasonably 
shouldve suspected he wouldnt survive the two-year qualifying period. Further, its not 
reasonable to suggest Mr L or his representative couldve foreseen unnecessary delays and 
so in the circumstances I dont think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis 
that Mr L or any third party related to this complaint should share blame for what happened. 
Cofunds caused a delay, but for that delay, no IHT would be payable on Mr Ls estate. So, it 
follows that Cofunds is at fault for this and should compensate the estate. 
Taking all the above points together  I will not be departing from my provisional findings in 
this matter.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put the 
estate as close to the position it would probably now be in if Cofunds hadnt caused delays. 
Ive been provided with a breakdown of Mr Ls estate. Im satisfied this was prepared by a 
qualified professional. The breakdown confirms that if the delays caused by Cofunds hadnt 
happened the value of Mr Ls chargeable estate wouldve been such that no tax liability 
wouldve been payable as it would be less than his available nil rate band. 
It follows that I uphold this complaint and find that Cofunds needs to take the following steps 
to put things right:
(A) Pay the estate of Mr L the full amount of inheritance tax at £41,819.20. Cofunds is 
able to request receipt of these funds having been paid from the estate.(B) Pay the estate of Mr L simple interest on (A) above at the rate of 8% per year from 
the date the inheritance tax bill was paid until the date of my decision.
(C) If Cofunds Limited has already paid the estate of Mr L any part of the inheritance tax 
or interest on this, Cofunds Limited may deduct this from the sums due above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Cofunds Limited to calculate the 
redress as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr L 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman