DRN-3724855
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage and related debt owed to Lloyds Bank PC by the estate 
of the late Mr H. The complaint, made here by the executor of Mr Hs estate and assisted by 
a firm of solicitors Ill call HR, is that Lloyds has applied interest to the mortgage balance 
unfairly since Mr H died, not least by treating interest as secured, contrary to the Insolvency 
Act.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 13 September 2022, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to the executor, HR, and 
Lloyds. Im also aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the 
complaint, which has been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of 
the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in the late Mr H or the executor of his estate being identified. Instead 
Ill give a brief summary of the main points, rounding the figures where appropriate, 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the 
outcome of the complaint.
Mr H died in 2018; his executor has told us that his estate was comprised solely of 
the property and the debt secured on it, hence the estate was insolvent. In an 
exchange of correspondence with Lloyds, HR raised the above matters and asked 
that it accept a short settlement offered by the executor to allow the executor to keep 
the property. Lloyds insisted on full settlement, and 2021, the mortgaged property 
was sold and Lloyds repaid in full. 
Lloyds rejected the executors complaint and it came to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think we could consider whether Lloyds had lent to Mr H irresponsibly. He 
thought Mr Hs estate had waited too long under our rules to start this element of the 
complaint. He also thought the executor had waited too long to refer the second 
element of the complaint about interest and charges to this service after Lloyds had 
issued its final response.
The investigator confined his opinion on the merits of the case to whether Lloyds had 
charged interest fairly in the period after the final response had been issued (Lloyds 
had consented to this) until the mortgage was repaid. The investigator didnt think 
Lloyds had treated the estate unfairly in doing so.
The executor has accepted the part one of the complaint is time-barred under our 
rules, but maintained we should consider part two in its entirety. By way of a decision 
dated 6 September 2022, I confirmed, with reasons, that our remit to consider the 
merits of this complaint was limited to whether Lloyds treated the estate of Mr H fairly 
when it applied interest to the mortgage between 26 November 2020 and the date 
the mortgage was repaid.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual 
disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate 
the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr H was a 
consumer, and so both met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our 
rules. That eligibility now vests in Mr Hs estate.
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant 
by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this 
respect, the executor is bringing the complaint on behalf of the estate.
But I must explain that, although the executor represents the estate, it is the estate 
that is Lloyds customer. Its the executors role is to bring the complaint on the 
estates behalf, in the same way that other consumers might instruct a solicitor or 
accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle the executor to 
air his own grievances about Lloyds, or complain about how he has been treated, 
because he is not its customer; his role is limited to putting forward the estates 
complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As Ive already outlined, Im confined here to considering the interest Lloyds added to 
the mortgage account between 26 November 2020 and when the mortgage was 
repaid; that was in October 2021. The essence of the executors argument, put 
forward by HR, is that because Mr Hs estate was insolvent at the time of his death, 
interest accruing after death must be treated as unsecured rather than secured. Had 
it been treated as unsecured, it should have been added to the unsecured creditors 
pot and dealt with accordingly, instead of being taken directly by Lloyds when the 
property was sold and the mortgage repaid.
The executor, and HR, argue that Lloyds has acted unlawfully, but I cant approach 
the subject in that way. I have no power to decide whether a financial business has 
acted unlawfully; only a court can do that. All my remit allows me to decide is whether 
Lloyds treated the estate of Mr H unfairly.
The investigators view was that the mortgage contract permitted Lloyds to continue 
adding interest up to the date the mortgage was repaid; as a starting point, thats my 
view too. The argument from HR is that the terms of the contract are legally 
superseded by the estates insolvency. That may be true, but even if it is, its not 
clear to me how Lloyds adherence to the terms of the mortgage has caused 
detriment to the estate of Mr H. It may have caused detriment to the estates unsecured creditors, but its not immediately obvious to me how that would impact 
adversely on the estate. 
I can quite understand if there are unsecured creditors that are feeling aggrieved 
because Lloyds has received full settlement of its debt using funds that might 
otherwise have been available to be paid to them. But the very nature of unsecured 
lending is that the creditor is more at risk of not being paid than a secured creditor, 
and my concerns here are not with the unsecured creditors of the estate of Mr H, or 
any difficulties the executor might have faced when dealing with them. 
It seems to me that there is ether enough money in an estate to settle all creditors or 
there is not. If there is not, as we have been told was the case here, then its 
inevitable that some of the estates labilities will go unsatisfied. But regardless of 
which creditors get paid and which do not, the net effect on the estate is the same. 
There is no money left at the end. Lloyds actions may have impacted on which other 
creditors were paid and which were not, but its not apparent to me that the estate of 
Mr H was treated unfairly.
I gave the parties two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; that time has now passed.
Lloyds hasnt added anything; the executor made a number of points which I summarise 
below.
He would have expected Lloyds to have raised the technical question from HR, about 
interest being unsecured, with its legal department in order to answer it;
The secured debt did exceed the value of the estate, but the beneficiaries wished to 
retain the property so cleared the debt using personal funds;
Lloyds actions and delays resulted in additional interest of around £3,400 and legal 
costs of approximately £1,000, which had to be paid by the beneficiaries.

What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusion.
The executor says I should consider the case from a customer service rather than a legal 
perspective. Id refer the executor back to what I said in the provisional decision; my remit is 
to consider whether Lloyds caused detriment to the estate. That is what I have done.
I understand that the executor is aggrieved at the problems he experienced in discharging 
his duties, and at the financial impact on the beneficiaries. But Ive already explained that I 
cant consider how and to what extent the executor, the beneficiaries or the unsecured 
creditors were impacted. 
In confirming that the estates liabilities exceeded its assets, the executor has at the same 
time confirmed my provisional conclusion that the estate suffered no detriment as a 
consequence of Lloyds actions. As for Lloyds referring HRs question to its legal 
department, it was up to Lloyds to decide it if needed to do that for its own purposes. It 
wasnt obliged to answer the question. The executor doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither the 
estate of the late Mr H nor Lloyds will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time 
limits or other restrictions a court might impose, the executors (and presumably the 
beneficiaries) right to take legal action against Lloyds over the subject matter of this 
complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman