DRN-2360982
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Unum Ltds decision to decline his claim.
What happened
Mr M had a group income protection policy through his employer, underwritten by Unum. 
This would pay a benefit after a deferred (waiting) period of 26 weeks if Mr M was unable to 
work due to illness or injury.
Mr M was employed as a systems officer, in an office-based role. Mr Ms date of first 
absence was 24 July 2018, and the commencement date for payment of any benefit would 
be 22 January 2019.
A claim was submitted in March 2019 but Unum declined this on the basis that Mr Ms 
absence was caused by workplace issues and he was displaying a stress reaction to his 
situation at work. It said there was no evidence to support the existence of a mental health 
condition that would cause Mr M sustained functional impairment.  
Mr M complained and unhappy with Unums response, referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator found that Unum hadnt unfairly declined the claim but Mr M disagreed.
In summary, he made the following comments:
The medical evidence shows he had ongoing anxiety and depression
Unum didnt ask for updated or additional information about Mr Ms illness
Mr M has taken his employer to an Employment Tribunal and it has found that he 
was disabled for the purpose of the Equality Act from 5 March 2019 onwards
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Unums terms and conditions define incapacity as follows:
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are: unable, by reason of 
their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of the insured 
occupation and are not performing any occupation.
In this case, the deferred period was between July 2018 and January 2019. And so Mr M 
has to demonstrate, through the medical evidence, that he is incapacitated throughout the 
deferred period in order to be eligible for a benefit under the terms of the policy. This means, 
Mr Ms illness has to be severe enough to restrict him from performing the material and 
substantial duties of his insured occupation as a systems officer. 
Ive summarised below the key medical evidence which was considered by Unum.
medical evidence during the deferred period
July - August 2018  GP records show working long hours, work related stress, Mr M wasnt 
keen to take medication for now and wanted to try CBT first.
August 2018  GP records show ongoing stress at work. Mr M had previously suffered from 
depression and anxiety and he was feeling anxious as a result of work-related issues.
September 2018  GP records show anxiety with depression and work-related anxiety for a 
few months. Mr M was engaging with IAPT and has had three sessions, he feels they are 
making a difference and will help.
October 2018  GP records confirm Mr M is halfway through CBT and has now been off 
work for three months and he cannot see himself returning at this point. His sleep is affected, 
he is eating well and busies himself around the house. GP expressed concern that Mr M had 
been off work for three months and said there was a huge risk of never returning to work. 
And a lack of routine would be further damaging to his mental health.
November 2018  Mr M completed an eight week managing emotions course.
November 2018  GP records show anxiety with depression - ongoing problems spurred by 
workplace stress. Mr M feels he is improving with CBT, a fit note was given until the end of 
CBT. They would then review and try and ease back into work. 
December 2018  GP telephone consultation in which Mr M says he completed initial CBT 
and will have further therapy starting on 8 January 2019.
January 2019  GP records show Mr M has been off work for over five months and there are 
some discussions about a phased return to work.
February 2019  GP records show ongoing stress and low mood, Mr M feels a little better 
but doesnt feel ready to go back to work.
medical evidence outside the deferred period
March 2019  Occupational health (OH) report following a telephone consultation. This said 
Mr M had been absent from work since July 2018 and there had been several work-related 
issues which resulted in symptoms of anxiety and depression.  Mr M confirmed he had 
attended CBT which he found beneficial but continues to experience low mood and anxiety 
and wasnt receiving any medication for this condition. Mr M was struggling to manage daily 
activities at present. The report concluded Mr M was currently unfit for work.
March 2019  GP records show Mr M had ongoing problems with work and medication was 
discussed but Mr M was keen to try CBT for now. The GP emphasised the longer Mr M was 
off work, the harder it might be to return. 
August 2019  A further occupational health report was completed following a telephone 
consultation. This said there were situations at work which led to a period of depression and 
anxiety and that Mr M had started medication a week ago. The report concluded Mr M was 
unfit for work for the foreseeable future.Unum reviewed Mr Ms medical records and declined the claim. It said:
There were no reported limitations and restrictions
The GP had encouraged Mr M to return to work which doesnt suggest the presence 
of a mental health condition that would cause any functional impairment
Mr M provided additional evidence in the form of OH reports and questionnaires and 
assessments relating to his depression. 
Unum reviewed this information and said the OH reports were outside the deferred period 
and the assessments and questionnaires were based on self-reporting.
Ive considered all the available evidence including anything outside of the deferred period. 
Mr M was clearly suffering from symptoms of stress, anxiety and depression. But in order to 
be eligible for benefit under the terms of the policy, the medical evidence would have to 
show that Mr M was unable to carry out the material and substantial duties of his role. The 
evidence gathered during the deferred period refers to issues within the work place which 
caused anxiety. The medical evidence doesnt show that Mr Ms GP felt he was unable to 
carry out the material and substantial duties of his role throughout the deferred period. In 
fact, the GP suggested that a return to work would be positive for Mr M. 
Based on the above, I dont think Mr M has satisfied the definition of incapacity, as described 
under the policy, for the whole of the deferred period.  
Ive also considered the OH reports which conclude Mr M is unfit for work. They also refer to 
work place issues but they are outside of the deferred period. It seems Mr Ms condition 
deteriorated over time but I am considering whether Unum acted fairly by concluding Mr M 
didnt meet the definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period. 
Mr M has provided evidence surrounding his employment issues. He says the Employment 
Tribunal has found that he was disabled for the purposes of the Equality Act from 5 March 
2019 onwards. The policy doesnt pay a benefit if someone is deemed disabled although I 
can see why Mr M feels this is relevant. The policy confirms a member has to be unable to 
perform the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation as a result of illness or 
injury. And so a member may still be able to perform the material and substantial duties of 
their occupation despite being disabled. 
Mr M has raised concerns about the way the claim was handled by his employer. But this 
isnt something I can comment on. As this was a group scheme, Mr Ms employer was the 
policyholder and Unum would correspond with his employer. Im aware Mr M has already 
started action in the Employment Tribunal. Any concerns about his employer arent within my 
remit and so I wont comment on this any further.
Overall, I can understand why Mr M feels aggrieved as his condition clearly has deteriorated. 
But I dont think the medical evidence supports incapacity between July 2018 and January 
2019. It isnt enough just to show that an illness exists. The GP records demonstrate that the 
GP thought a return to work would be beneficial. During the deferred period, the evidence 
shows the work place issues were the barrier to returning to work. 
Our investigator said Mr M could have undertaken his role for another employer. Based on 
the medical evidence from the deferred period, it is possible that a change in employer 
would have removed the barriers to work and the work place issues. And Mr Ms anxiety as 
a result of his employment issues wouldnt have been present at a different employer. That 
is the key test. If Mr M would be able to carry out the material and substantial duties for another employer, he doesnt meet the definition of incapacity. As Mr Ms illness was 
prolonged and deteriorated as a result of workplace issues, it follows that Mr M wouldnt 
have felt anxious if he changed his workplace. 
And so I dont think Unum need to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman