DRN-3244758
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that in 2010, Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) mis-
sold a tailored business loan to them.
What happened
I understand that everyone agrees:
In 2010, Mr and Mrs P had an outstanding loan of around £532,000 with Yorkshire 
Bank.
Mr and Mrs P then met with the bank to discuss their borrowing. There is a dispute 
about who requested the meeting  Mr and Mrs P say they certainly didnt ask to 
meet the bank  but everyone agrees that discussions did take place.
Following those discussions, Mr and Mrs P fixed £200,000 of their borrowing for 14 
years 8 months (the remainder of the original term). The fixed rate was 4.41%.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs P complained about the 2010 sale of their fixed rate loan. They 
said theyd felt pressured into taking the loan out, and that if everything had been 
clearly explained they would not have agreed to fix the interest rate at all.
Yorkshire Bank accepted that it hadnt given Mr and Mrs P enough information about 
how much it would cost to repay their loan early. But it didnt agree that it had 
pressured Mr and Mrs P into taking out the loan  and it thought that even if 
everything had happened as it should, they would still have chosen to fix the interest 
rate on £200,000 of their borrowing for five years. So, Yorkshire Bank offered 
compensation based on Mr and Mrs P fixing the interest rate for five years rather 
than the full term.
Mr and Mrs P did not accept Yorkshire Banks offer, and referred their complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. He agreed with Mr and Mrs P  he thought 
that if Yorkshire Bank had properly explained break costs, they wouldnt have chosen to take 
any of their borrowing on a fixed rate. He therefore recommended that Yorkshire Bank pay 
compensation with the aim of putting Mr and Mrs P in the position they would have been in if 
the whole of their load had been on a variable rate from 2010 onwards.
Yorkshire Bank did not accept our investigators recommendations, so the complaint was 
referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021. I said:
I do not agree with our investigators conclusions. Based on what Ive seen so far, I think 
Yorkshire Banks offer was fair and reasonable at the time it was made. I note that it has 
already said it is willing to bring its offer up-to-date, taking into account the fact that Mr 
and Mrs P have since repaid their fixed rate loan, and I think that would be fair. I say that 
because:
I dont think the bank did anything wrong in telling Mr and Mrs P that it was open 
to them to fix the interest rate on their loan. I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs P 
have spoken eloquently of the discomfort they felt at finding three senior bank 
officials in their home, and of their relief when the banks staff left. I accept that 
Mr and Mrs P felt intimidated, and I note that many people do find conversations 
with banks about loans very stressful indeed. But I havent seen anything that 
persuades me that Yorkshire Banks staff put any inappropriate pressure on Mr 
and Mrs P. 
In addition, I dont think the bank did anything wrong in failing to assess whether 
a fixed rate loan was the most suitable product for Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances. 
The bank was not required to give advice, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that it 
promised that it would advise Mr and Mrs P. Its role was to provide them with 
information, not to tell them what they should do.
However, I do think Yorkshire Bank was wrong in not fully explaining the 
consequences of fixing the rate. In particular, as it accepts, Yorkshire Bank was 
wrong not to explain how expensive break costs could be if Mr and Mrs P wanted 
to repay their loan early.
So, I need to decide what I think is more likely to have happened if everything 
had happened as it should. In other words, I need to decide what would have 
happened if Yorkshire Bank had told Mr and Mrs P that fixed rate loans were 
available whilst also giving them sufficient information about the possibility of 
break costs.
Our investigator is right to say that in 2010, nobody knew for sure what rates 
would be over the next five, ten or fifteen years. I would expect Yorkshire Bank to 
have had much more sophisticated predictions than Mr and Mrs P  but nobody 
knew for certain what would happen. Even now, it is not possible to say what 
interest rates will be in the final years of a fifteen year fix taken out in 2010.
But I think our investigator was wrong to suggest that, in 2010, it was thought 
unlikely that rates would rise over the next five years. Yorkshire Bank has 
referred me to a December 2010 report from the Confederation of British 
Industry, which it summarised as predicting gradual interest rate rises to begin in 
spring 2011 and reaching 2.75% by Q4 2012. I am also aware of press 
commentary at the time in which economists were quoted as expecting rate rises 
in the relatively short term. Those rate rises did not in fact materialise  but I think 
they were a realistic possibility at the time Mr and Mrs P chose to fix the interest 
rate on part of their loan.
I can also see that the monthly cost of the fixed rate Mr and Mrs P chose was 
higher than the monthly cost of a fixed rate over a shorter period  and it was 
also higher than the variable rate loan it replaced. Bearing in mind the evidence 
Yorkshire Bank has provided, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs P knew that the initial 
monthly cost of a loan fixed over a 5 or 10 year term would have been cheaper 
than the longer term fixed rate they actually chose. The fact that Mr and Mrs P 
were prepared to pay more for a longer term fixed rate does suggest to me that 
they were attracted to the idea of fixing their payments for a longer period.There is nothing in Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances that makes me think it was 
likely they would need to repay their loan after any specific period. Their business 
was long established, and I havent seen anything to suggest it was likely they 
would need or want to sell any of their business property during the term of the 
loan.
Yorkshire Banks offer puts Mr and Mrs P in the position they would have been in 
if theyd chosen a five year fix from outset. In the overall circumstances, I think 
that is fair  and represents a reasonable balance between the security of fixing 
payment for a time and the risk of having to pay a break cost if Mr and Mrs P 
needed or wanted to repay the loan within the first five years.
I note that part of Mr and Mrs Ps objection to Yorkshire Banks offer was that it didnt 
address the issue of huge break costs. But Im satisfied that the banks offer does in fact 
address that issue. I can see that Mr and Mrs P have already repaid their Yorkshire Bank 
loan, and  given the initial outcome of this complaint  Yorkshire Bank chose not to 
apply break costs.
Yorkshire Bank accepted my provisional findings, but Mr and Mrs P did not. Briefly, they 
said:
Yorkshire Bank only offered them one fixed rate loan  they were not offered a range 
of fixes over different terms, and they certainly werent given an explanation of the 
costs and benefits of each of the options. In particular, they did not know that a fix 
over 5 or 10 years would be cheaper on a monthly basis than a fixed rate over the 
term they actually chose.
They did not want or request a fixed rate loan. If it had not been for Yorkshire Banks 
pressure selling, they would have simply kept their original variable rate loan over its 
original term.
Whilst they accept they did agree to fix part of their loan, they did so under pressure 
from a bank manager who wanted them to fix the whole of the loan.
They were not left with any documents or proposals after the first meeting, and they 
feel that prevented them from properly reviewing the terms and rates with an adviser.
They hadnt previously seen the CBI report that I quoted, but they are aware of other 
commentary from 2010 from economists who thought base rates were likely to stay 
around 0.5%. Even if they had known of the CBIs suggestion that rates would reach 
2.75% by Q4 2012, that would not have encouraged them to fix at 4.41% for 15 
years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to further disappoint Mr and Mrs P, but having done so I have come to the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. I now confirm those 
provisional conclusions as final.
I remain satisfied that, in 2010, nobody knew what would happen to interest rates over the 
next 15 years. Some economists were expecting a base rate rise in the relatively near future; other economists were expecting base rates to stay low for some time. Base rate rises were 
nevertheless a realistic possibility, and I see nothing wrong in Yorkshire Bank offering Mr 
and Mrs P the opportunity to protect themselves against those rises.
It isnt possible for me to be certain about whether Yorkshire Bank offered Mr and Mrs P 
fixed rate loans over a shorter term. Mr and Mrs P do not remember any such offer, but 
Yorkshire Banks paperwork does suggest that its staff obtained figures for loans over 
shorter terms. It is possible that Mr and Mrs P simply do not remember all of the paperwork, 
especially if they only had the opportunity for a brief glance at the documents. But I do still 
think they chose to take some of their borrowing on a fixed rate basis, which implies that 
protection against interest rate rises was attractive to them. Their previous borrowing had 
been on a variable rate with nearly 15 years remaining on its term. Despite any pressure 
they felt from their bank, I am satisfied that they would have known they could continue with 
that variable rate borrowing for the whole of their loan if they had wished to.
Having said that, Yorkshire Bank was wrong not to have given Mr and Mrs P more 
information about the potential costs if they were to repay their loan early. I know that 
Mr and Mrs P strongly disagree with me, but on balance I consider that if Yorkshire Bank 
had given them more information they would have chosen to arrange some of their 
borrowing on a fixed rate over a shorter term. As Ive said, I think a five year term represents 
a reasonable balance between the security of fixing payments for a time and the risk of 
having to pay substantial break costs if Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances changed and they 
needed to repay their loan earlier than anticipated.
Putting things right
Yorkshire Bank should pay compensation to Mr and Mrs P with the aim of putting them in the 
position they would have been in if their £200,000 loan had been fixed for five years from 
2010. That will mean updating its offer to take account of the payments Mr and Mrs P have 
made since its offer was originally made.
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) has 
already made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I order it to pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs P in accordance with that offer (updated to take account of Mr 
and Mrs Ps subsequent payments).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman