DRN-3755422
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions he didnt make.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Monzo accepted these were unauthorised transactions. However, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts 
Mr P failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep 
his personalised security details safe.
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Mr P failed with 
gross negligence. Ill explain why.
While the call came from No Caller ID, Mr P said they knew his name and the last 
four digits of his card number. So I can see why he believed they were genuinely 
from Monzos fraud team  I think lots of people wouldve done. Im also mindful that 
most people dont hear from their banks genuine fraud team regularly  in order to 
know or question how the number would appear on their phone.
Mr P said he was told theyd stopped fraudulent Direct Debits, but three payments 
had been made using Apple Pay on a fraudsters device. So theyd unlink this and 
hed need to add Apple Pay again on his own device. Mr P said he was reassured he 
received a message from Monzo when they told him to expect it  at the time, he 
thought only Monzos staff couldve done that. 
Given Mr Ps trust in the caller, the plausible explanation given and the timing of 
Monzos genuine message, I understand why Mr P followed the steps to set up Apple 
Pay. I note Monzo hasnt shown us evidence to show that the steps clearly warned 
him that he was in fact setting it up on a different device (which is how the 
unauthorised transactions were made). It follows that I dont think Mr P acted with 
very significant carelessness to say he failed with gross negligence.  
Monzo has also highlighted that Mr P was grossly negligent for believing hed need to 
apply for an interest free loan  to cover his overdraft costs while they reversed the 
fraudulent transactions with the merchant. But the test Im considering is whether 
Mr P failed with gross negligence to keep his personalised security details safe or 
comply with the terms of the account. And Ive not been persuaded that applying for 
a loan in the app meant he didnt keep his personalised security details safe or was 
in breach of Monzos terms. Instead, this was merely a ruse so hed more funds 
available  theyd already the means to make, and indeed had made, payments. 
Either way, while I acknowledge Mr P regrets his actions now, I do understand why 
he believed them in the moment. Particularly when they framed it as a way to help 
over Christmas and how, at that point, he wouldve been able to corroborate the 
payments in the app with the fraudulent payments they spoke about.  
Taking this all into account, I dont think Mr Ps actions fell so far below what a 
reasonable person wouldve done that he failed with gross negligence. So I conclude 
that he isnt liable for the transactions and Monzo needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
Monzo ought to have refunded all the unauthorised transactions much sooner (by the 
end of the next working day at the latest). Had it done so, Im persuaded that Mr P 
wouldve cancelled and repaid the loan hed taken out under false pretences. 
To put this right, Monzo should remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan, 
leaving only the amount lent.  
From this, Monzo must deduct all repayments Mr P has made towards the loan, as 
well as the outstanding losses from the unauthorised transactions. Given the current 
balance on the loan, this should leave Mr P in credit. 
This credit amount should be paid to Mr P alongside 8% simple interest per year from 
the date of the unauthorised transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax 
lawfully deductible). 
Monzo must also correct Mr Ps credit file, to reflect that the loan wouldve been 
cancelled straightaway. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must put things 
right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman