DRN-3817685
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr M says he regularly receives text messages advertising loans and prize draws. He 
decided to follow a link contained within one of those messages  which claimed hed won a 
£2,000 prize. 
Mr M was taken to a website. Initially he was asked to send documents to verify his identity 
in order to receive his prize. Later, the website informed him that he needed to purchase 
investment packages in order to have the money released. Those investments would, it was 
claimed, produce returns in a matter of a few days.
Mr M made 24 payments over about three days to the website totalling just under £1,000. 
The payments were made via Open Banking  Mr M instructed the payments directly from 
the fraudulent website and confirmed them through his Monzo application.
His profits appeared to increase significantly, but when he asked to withdraw his funds, the 
website operator broke off communication and Mr M realised hed been the victim of a scam.
Initially Monzo said that it didnt think the payments were eligible for reimbursement under 
the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) which 
requires its signatories (or firms which have agreed to adhere to its principles, like Monzo), 
to refund victims of authorised push payments scams in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. It said that the payments went to a cryptocurrency account in Mr Ms name, 
and therefore didnt go to another person as required by the CRM Code. Later it said that 
Mr M was responsible for the loss because he hadnt carried out enough checks on the 
recipient.  
The matter was referred to our service, but one of our investigators thought that Monzo 
could fairly rely on one of the exceptions to reimbursement set out in the CRM Code. They 
argued that Mr M ought to have done more checks on the website before going ahead and 
they thought that what the website offered was too good to be true.
Mr M disagreed, he said that he felt like he was being blamed for what happened and he 
shouldnt lose out because he was tricked.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules  the Payment Services Regulations 2017  Mr M is responsible for 
payments hes made himself (even under deception). But Monzo has agreed to adhere to 
the principles of the CRM Code, which mean it should only decline reimbursement if it can 
show that one of the exceptions to reimbursement can be demonstrated. It also has 
longstanding obligations to be on the lookout for out of character and unusual transactions to 
protect, among other things, against the risk of financial harm from fraud.  
There was initially a dispute about whether the CRM Code was relevant here. The fact Open 
Banking was used to process the payments does not exclude them from consideration under 
the CRM Code. Instead the relevant test is whether the payments went to another person. 
Ive recently obtained evidence from the receiving bank which demonstrates the funds did go 
to an account held in Mr Ms name. But, I can also see that some of the contact information 
for Mr M on that account is different to what we have on file. He's also said that he provided 
identity documents to the fraudsters. So, the evidence is consistent with a third party setting 
up the account in Mr Ms name. That means the complaint should be considered under the 
CRM Code as the recipient account cant fairly be described as Mr Ms. But, even if Im 
wrong about this, for the reasons Ive set out below, whether the case falls under the 
provisions of the CRM Code or not, makes no difference to the overall outcome. 
Monzo have declined to reimburse Mr M on the basis that he didnt have a reasonable basis 
for believing that the recipient of the payments he made was legitimate. Having considered 
this matter carefully Im inclined to agree. In doing so, Ive thought carefully about Mr M and 
his characteristics (as the CRM Code requires). I dont wish to hold him to an unreasonable 
standard when judging his actions, but there are a number of aspects of what happened to 
Mr M that strike me as unusual and ought to have led him to question what he was doing.
 
I appreciate that Mr M might have entered competitions in the past that were genuine, but he 
says he received an unsolicited text message which didnt suggest that he could win £2,000 
but that he already had won it. I note, however, that the text message hes provided simply 
says 2000 Credited. 
I know that some unscrupulous advertisers use such techniques to entice people into 
making purchases, so I can understand why Mr M might have clicked on the link out of 
curiosity  just to see if he could really access the prize. A subsequent request for identity 
documents probably should have caused him a little more concern  particularly as he was 
sending them to a website hed done little, if any, research on. 
But then Mr M was told hed need to invest money in order to receive his winnings and that 
hed be able to make huge profits if he did so, he ought to have known at this point that 
what he was being asked to do was significantly different from the prize he was offered. 
And, its not clear Mr M understood how his investment was supposed to generate profits 
and simply accepted the fact that money was being, or could be, generated. 
While I appreciate Mr M was an inexperienced investor and may not have known about the 
Financial Conduct Authority register (a warning that fraudsters were impersonating a 
genuine firm existed prior to Mr M making the payments), but he seems to have entirely 
relied on what was written on the website itself and not carried out any other checks.
I think Mr M ought to have known that the prize he was offered was simply too good to be 
true and ultimately he put faith in a website that hed been introduced to by way of an 
unsolicited text message from an unknown number. 
I also note that he frequently interacted with Monzo in the year proceeding the scam. Some 
of those interactions relate to quite similar experiences. For example, a dispute raised on 8 
July 2022 shows that Mr M was looking to purchase computer games but ended up making 
a series of payments to a website in order to claim a prize that never materialised (a website 
he seemingly subsequently couldnt locate). I would have expected that an experience like 
this would have made him more cautious when dealing with unfamiliar websites and dubious 
offers.Taking all of this into account, Ive decided Mr M didnt have a reasonable basis for believing 
that the recipients of his payments were genuine and Monzo can fairly rely on this exception 
under the CRM Code.
I note that Mr M had a gambling block on his account, which would prevent him making 
payments to UK licenced gambling companies. Given the nature of his previous disputes, I 
asked Mr M about this, as well as whether there was anything that might have made him 
more vulnerable to scams at the time. Mr M said that hed had problems with fraudulent 
transactions before but had never had a gambling addiction. So, on balance, I dont think the 
part of the CRM Code that deals with vulnerable customers is relevant here. 
I also dont think there was any obligation on Monzo to provide a warning, or to intervene 
before the payments left Mr Ms account. I cant see that Monzo would have considered 
there to be any risk of an APP scam here. Although there were a significant number of 
payments in a relatively short period of time, no single payment was larger than £50 and Mr 
Ms account appears to have a history of making frequent low value card payments. So Im 
not persuaded that the activity indicated Mr M was at risk of financial harm from fraud and 
that Monzo made a mistake by allowing it to proceed without speaking to Mr M. 
Finally, Ive thought about whether Monzo took sufficient steps to try and recover Mr Ms 
money. When he first reported the matter to the bank, it wasnt clear that he was reporting 
being the victim of a scam. He said that the recipient of his payments hadnt received them. 
It wasnt until around 6pm on 26 August 2022 that he described having fallen victim to a 
scam. Its evident that Monzo had reached out to the receiving firm by 12:24 on 27 August 
2022. But I cant see that the receiving firm took steps to try and recover the funds until 29 
August 2022, at which point it said that no funds remained. That means that while Monzo 
might have acted a little bit more quickly, given that the receiving firm took two days to take 
any action, I cant fairly conclude that the delay has led to any loss to Mr M.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman