DRN-3878853
The complaint
Mrs M and X complain about long wait times when calling Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
Mrs M and X have several accounts with Lloyds, including a platinum Mastercard. In 
February 2022, X called Lloyds to ask about the benefits on the card account. He had to wait 
for a period of time to get through.
Mrs M and X complained. They said X had to wait 34 minutes to get through and this wasnt 
acceptable. And this wasnt the first time - he said it always takes between 20 and 40 
minutes to get an answer. So, they say  nothing seems to improve.
Lloyds apologised. They said they did closely monitor the volume of calls and tried to ensure 
the right number of staff are available to deal with them. Lloyds said (at that time) the volume 
of calls had increased  which resulted in increased waiting times for customers. Lloyds paid 
compensation of £30.
Mrs M and X didnt accept Lloyds payment of £30 and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator said Lloyds dealt with the complaint reasonably. Lloyds had acknowledged the 
problems, apologised, and paid compensation of £30. She said Lloyds cant guarantee 
waiting times for customers  because there are many factors affecting calls. He said there 
were other ways to obtain information  such as online and mobile banking.
Mrs M and X didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint. So  it has 
come to me to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I completely understand Mrs M and Xs frustration at the waiting times they experienced  
especially as X has told us it happens often. And particularly as he is a platinum card holder 
 he expects better service.
Lloyds have apologised and explained that call volumes increased around the time of Mrs M 
and Xs complaint. Theyve said that call volumes are monitored and they try to ensure the 
right number of staff are manning the phones. But equally, its not a precise science.
I was sorry to learn of Mrs M and Xs experience here. Certainly, Lloyds (and indeed most 
banks) experienced very high volumes of calls  and therefore long waiting times  during 
the pandemic. That was because customers couldnt visit branches and were encouraged to 
call firms. But of course, we would have expected that to have fallen away by the time of Mrs 
M and Xs complaint.
Let me say that this service exists to resolve individual disputes between customers and 
financial businesses. We arent the regulator of Lloyds   thats the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). So  we dont tell businesses to change their policies or practices. So  
here, its for Lloyds to make its own commercial decisions as to how it runs its phone 
banking. But we do say if a customer has, or hasnt, been dealt with fairly and reasonably  
based on the individual circumstances of their complaint.
So, we cant for example, tell Lloyds to change the staffing levels on its phone lines. From 
reading Xs emails to us  he will be frustrated to hear this, but thats the case here. Its for 
Lloyds to make sure their service is up to scratch  and thats a commercial decision they 
make, and which we cant influence.
I was pleased to see that Lloyds reacted reasonably to Mrs M and Xs complaint. They paid 
compensation of £30 and explained their challenges in forecasting the levels of calls. 
Our investigator also said that online/mobile banking can be useful in getting information 
about Lloyds service  for example, platinum card benefits can be easily viewed online  so 
that is an obvious alternative for Mrs M and X to use. I also asked Lloyds if there is a 
dedicated phone number for platinum card holders, and there is - 0345 850 5300. Im not 
sure if X used this number, but I offer it as an alternative which may help.
And so, in summary, Im not upholding this complaint  which I accept will be disappointing 
for Mrs M and X  but I hope they appreciate my reasoning here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman