DRN-1439834
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) because it incorrectly processed a 
personal loan application. He believes his credit score has been affected, and hes suffered 
stress and anxiety as a result.   
Mr C would like Barclays to compensate him and correct any adverse entries on his credit 
file because of the error it made.
What happened
Mr C went into a Barclays branch on 21 June 2019 to request a top up on his existing 
personal loan. Instead of processing this as a top up loan, the advisor processed it as a new 
loan which wasn't accepted. 
Barclays said he could re-apply for the loan correctly but Mr C said hed already applied for it 
elsewhere. So he asked Barclays to remove the credit file entry for the application it 
processed incorrectly. He was unhappy that his credit score had slightly declined and made 
a complaint to Barclays.
Barclays responded on 8 July 2019 and said it was sorry for what had happened. It accepted 
an error was made but said that a credit search would have been made in any case  
whether it was for a top up loan or a new loan. Barclays said it spoke to the relevant team 
who confirmed the entry for the search and error it had made would not have impacted any 
future applications. It apologised for the initial error made in the branch and offered Mr C 
compensation of £20 for the time hed spent in the branch and for making calls. It offered a 
further £25 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr C was unhappy with Barclays response and brought the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint. He said the error made by Barclays wont have had 
the impact Mr C had thought initially as the credit search carried out wasn't a full one. He 
said as such any future applications wont be impacted. The investigator said he thought the 
offer of £45 for the error and distress caused was fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint. 
The complaint has been passed to me as Mr C has asked for an ombudsman to make a 
decision. Mr C said he doesn't consider £45 to be an adequate amount of compensation for 
the stress and anxiety Barclays caused for an error that was avoidable. He reminded the 
investigator that he hadn't received the payment of £45 from Barclays. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The key issue I need to decide is whether the offer Barclays has made is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. I note Barclays made an error and appreciate it could have done better. I can also see 
Barclays has accepted it shouldn't have made that error and tried to rectify it. However, 
when Barclays contacted Mr C to see if he wanted to go through the application again, he 
said hed gone elsewhere for a loan and it had been accepted. 
While I also understand Mr C feels his credit file has been impacted, from the evidence we 
have, I dont think it has. A full credit search wasn't carried out when the adviser applied for a 
new loan and therefore wont impact any future applications he makes. 
Overall, I appreciate Mr C suffered distress and inconvenience. However, from the 
information available to me and in the circumstances of this complaint, I think the offer of £45 
is fair and reasonable. I acknowledge Mr C feels he should receive more adequate 
compensation. But, our service only makes modest awards in situations like this and not on 
the basis of loss of earnings or time spent per hour. Our role is also not to punish the 
businesses. 
Based on everything, I think the compensation offer of £45 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
 My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered to pay Mr C the amount Ive outlined above. I conclude 
that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should pay the outstanding amount within 28 days of receiving notice of
Mr Cs acceptance of this decision. 
Mr C should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and 
he probably then wouldn't be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between him and Barclays Bank UK PLCs  whether the above 
offer still remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the 
offeror after rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman