DRN-2580245
The complaint
Mrs C complains on behalf of her daughter, Miss C, about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc trading as More Th>n (RSA) cancelling Miss Cs car insurance policy. Mrs C says Miss C 
never received any written correspondence letting her know about this. Miss C wants RSA to 
insure her and reimburse her the additional costs she has had to pay. Miss C also wants 
RSA to pay compensation for stress and loss of earnings.  
What happened
Miss C took out car insurance with RSA in December 2018 with an annual mileage 
restriction of 10,000 miles. In December 2019, and shortly before Miss Cs policy was due to 
expire, she was stopped by the police who explained her car wasnt insured. Mrs C 
complained to RSA who responded and said the policy had been cancelled in September 
2019 as Miss C had exceeded her mileage limit. They said they had notified Miss C when 
she was approaching the mileage limit and then later issued her with a notice of cancellation. 
RSA didnt uphold the complaint.  
Our investigator looked into things for Miss C. She thought RSA hadnt acted unfairly in 
cancelling the policy and they had notified Miss C of this. Mrs C disagreed so the matter has 
come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Miss C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Miss Cs car insurance policy documents. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says, under the heading Cancelling your policy: If we need to cancel your 
policy well write to you at least 7 days before the cancellation date, using the address we 
currently have on record.   
The policy booklet says, under the heading Top Up Miles: 
Your policy only provides cover for the restricted number of miles shown on your 
policy schedule. The telematics device in your car is used to record the number of 
miles driven by your car. Once you have used up your available number of miles then 
cover will no longer be in force under the policy. Before you run out of available miles 
you will be contacted by us and offered one of the following options
One of the options listed is you may purchase Top Up Miles for an additional premium. 
This section goes on to say, if Miss C doesnt agree to one of the options, RSA will cancel 
the policy by giving her seven days notice either in writing to her last known address or by 
email as soon as the amount of available miles has been exhausted.  
 
RSA have provided a screenshot showing the contact details they hold for Miss C on their 
system. This shows a mobile number and email address. The Statement of Fact forms part 
of the insurance contract and I can see this was sent to Miss C. This contains a statement 
which says the document is a record of the information provided to RSA and asks Miss C to 
check the information is correct. This includes a mobile number and email address. These 
details match the contact details RSA hold on their system. The Statement of Fact sets out 
an annual mileage limit of 10,000 and also says, You should tell us if any of the information 
changes.  
    
The information Ive seen shows that RSA email and text Miss C letting her know shes 
approaching her mileage limit. Around two weeks later Miss C exceeds her mileage limit. 
RSA then write to her on 12 September to say theyve contacted her recently to let her know 
her mileage allowance was running low. They say shes now exceeded her mileage and, in 
line with the terms and conditions, they give formal notice of cancellation to take effect in 
seven days. They say, to avoid the policy being cancelled, Miss C can contact them to 
purchase top-up miles. Having not heard back, RSA cancel the policy and notify Miss C on 
20 September.         
  
The terms and conditions allow RSA to cancel the policy if Miss C exceeds the mileage limit 
 and that is what theyve done. I dont think theyve acted unfairly in taking this step as the 
mileage limit forms part of the agreement between RSA and Miss C  and a condition upon 
which theyve offered the policy. RSA have followed the terms and conditions by giving 
seven days notice in writing of the decision to cancel the policy. I think its important to add 
that RSA, in this letter and a previous email, do give Miss C an opportunity to top up her 
mileage allowance in order to prevent her policy being cancelled. So, taking this all into 
account, I cant say RSA have acted unreasonably. 
I note Mrs C says Miss C never received the 12 September letter and queries whether it was 
sent. I can see theres no mention of this letter being sent by post in RSAs complaint 
response. Mrs C also refers to two phone calls Miss Cs father makes to RSA in December 
2019. She says during both calls, which are with two separate call handlers, neither of them 
mention the letter sent on 12 September. I have listened to both calls and note, during the 
first call, the call handler explains the reasons the policy has been cancelled and that theyve 
notified Miss C by email and letter. And, when Miss Cs father queries the date of the letter, 
the call handler says its 20 September. The call handler then refers to a text message sent 
on 12 September giving seven days notice. Miss Cs father calls the following day and again 
the call handler says a text message was sent on 12 September. During both calls, theres 
no mention from either call handler about a letter being sent by post on 12 September. 
 
In light of this, I understand why Mrs C has her doubts about whether the 12 September 
letter was sent by post. Ive considered this point carefully, and from the evidence Ive seen, 
and on the balance of probabilities, I think its more likely than not that it was sent by post. I 
say this for two reasons. Firstly, RSA have provided system notes which show a record for 
12 September which says a cancellation letter has been sent. Secondly, Ive seen the letter 
and it does contain a postal address so I believe it was sent by post. I do take on board Mrs 
Cs point about the two call handlers not referring to the 12 September letter being sent by 
post. They do however make reference to the notification being sent by text message, which 
is shown by the system notes. Importantly though, they dont say the 12 September 
notification has been sent by text message only. 
The system notes show RSA communicated with Miss C by post, email and text. So, while it 
was correct for the call handlers to refer to the notification by text, the system notes show it 
wasnt the only way in which the notification was sent.   
I understand Mrs C says Miss C didnt receive the 12 September letter by post but Ive seen 
a copy and the address on the letter is the same as the address on the Statement of Fact. And, it also matches the address Mrs C has provided to our service. And, given that its 
addressed correctly, I cant hold RSA responsible for what mightve been an error by the 
postal service.    
Mrs C says that text messages or emails sent by RSA wont have been received by Miss C. 
She says Miss Cs mobile number was no longer in use and her email wasnt monitored. 
Understandably, Miss C wont have received the notifications RSA sent by text or email. I 
cant say however that there has been an error here by RSA. I havent seen any evidence 
that Miss C told RSA those methods of communication were no longer in use. And, the 
terms and conditions do make it clear that Miss C should let RSA know if any information 
changes. So, while its unfortunate the notifications werent received by Miss C, I dont think 
RSA have acted unreasonably in communicating by text and email and it was reasonable for 
them to take the view their communication was being received.  
I am sorry to hear about the impact this event has had, and continues to have, on Miss C. 
And, I dont doubt it will have been very upsetting to have been stopped by the police and 
distressing to now have to face a court case. My role is to look at whether RSA have acted 
fairly and reasonably  and I think they have. It will understandably be upsetting for Miss C 
to have her car insurance cancelled but the evidence shows RSA have acted in line with the 
terms and conditions. And, Ive seen theyve provided the notifications required under the 
terms and conditions and gave Miss C opportunities to avoid this situation. So, while Miss C 
does have my sympathy for the situation she now finds herself in, I cant say RSA have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman