DRN-3986317
The complaint
Mr G complains about QIC Europe Ltds handling of a motor insurance claim.
What happened
Mr G insured his car with QIC. He discovered the catalytic converter had been stolen and 
made a claim on the policy. A few days later Mr G spoke to QIC again and said hed 
discovered further damage to the car.
QIC accepted cover and said that Mr Gs vehicle was a write-off. It said that it would deduct 
two excesses as it considered there were two separate incidents of damage and so this 
should be treated as two claims.
Mr G complained to QIC. He said the claim had taken too long and the amount offered to 
settle the claim was too low. He was also unhappy QIC had deducted two excesses from the 
settlement.
When QIC rejected his complaint, Mr G referred it to our service. Our investigator thought 
QICs offer in settlement of the claim was too low. She also thought it was unfair to treat this 
as two separate claims and apply two excesses. She considered as well that the payment of 
the settlement had been unnecessarily delayed and that compensation should be paid to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G.
QIC didnt agree with any of our investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has complained about a number of matters, and Ill address these in turn.
The number of claims / applicable excesses
QIC believes the damage to Mr Gs car should be treated as two claims, and in line with the 
policy terms and conditions, two £100 excesses should be deducted from the final 
settlement of the claim.
Its reasons for this are that Mr G initially only told it about the theft of the catalytic converter, 
and then several days later notified it that other items had been stolen from the car and it 
had been vandalised. 
Mr G said he didnt check all of the car when he first discovered the catalytic converter was 
missing and it was only when the car was collected several days later, after hed first spoken 
to QIC, that the additional damage was pointed out to him. The further damage discovered 
was that a heat shield and fuel line had been stolen, and paintwork around the fuel filler had 
been scratched.
If there were two incidents of vandalism and theft then it would be fair for two claims to be 
recorded and two excesses applied. Im satisfied its more likely than not that all of the 
damage and thefts occurred in the same incident. I think its fair that Mr G didnt check his 
vehicle fully on discovering the theft of the catalytic converter. The other items which had 
been stolen werent immediately obvious as being missing, and the scratches arent 
excessive or particularly obvious on the photographs of the car Ive seen.
On balance, I think all of the damage and stolen items should be treated as having 
happened in the same incident, and so only one claim should be recorded. That means only 
one excess should be deducted from the settlement amount.
In order to put things right here, QIC will need to amend any internal and external databases 
to reflect that one claim has been made. Mr Gs said his insurance premiums have increased 
because two claims have been recorded. If required for his new insurers, QIC will need to 
provide written confirmation that the records have been amended to reflect that only one 
claim was made. 
QIC will also need to refund £100 (equivalent to one of the excess deductions) and pay 
simple interest at a rate of 8% on that amount from the date of the original settlement to the 
date of the new settlement.
The claim settlement
When it settled the claim, QIC said the market value of Mr Gs car was £4,000, so it paid 
£3,800 in settlement after the two £100 excesses had been deducted.
Mr Gs policy terms and conditions say where a car is written off, QIC will pay the market 
value of the car, with the market value defined as:
The cost of replacing your car in the UK with one of a similar make, model, age, mileage and 
condition, immediately before the loss or damage happened.
To assess the market value at the time of the loss, we may take advice from a suitably 
qualified, independent motor engineer or refer to publications such as Glasss Guide, and 
make an allowance for the mileage, condition and circumstances at the time you originally 
bought your car.
Our approach to complaints about the valuation of a car is well established. We look at the 
valuations obtained from motor trade guides and if the amount offered falls within the range 
of values (once any outliers have been excluded as being either too high or too low) then 
well usually say a fair offer has been made.
QICs settlement was based on values from two trade guides. However, one of the values it 
relied on was a trade value, rather than a retail value. QIC should have used the retail value 
when it calculated the settlement. This meant that, in my opinion, the offer didnt represent a 
fair market value for Mr Gs car.
Ive looked at four valuation tools. These gave values of £5,020, £5,090, £5,725 and £4,801 
for Mr Gs car. £4,000 is less than the lowest of these and so I dont think the settlement 
fairly valued Mr Gs car.
To put things right here, I think a fair market value based on the above values would be the 
average of them. That means a fair offer would be £5,159, which is £1,159 more than QIC 
offered when it settled the claim.To put things right, QIC should pay an additional £1,159 to Mr G in settlement of the claim. It 
also needs to pay simple interest at a rate of 8% from the date of the original settlement to 
the date of the new settlement on this amount.
Claim handling
I know Mr G was unhappy about the length of time taken to assess the claim, but from my 
review of the information available to me I think that up to the point it confirmed the car 
would be written off and it would be making a settlement for the market value of the car, 
there werent any unreasonable delays. 
However, once QIC had confirmed it would be making the settlement, it was a further 30 
days before the payment was made to Mr G. No reasonable explanation has been provided 
for this. Mr G was left in a position where he knew his car had been written off, so wasnt 
expecting it to be returned, but hadnt been paid a settlement to allow him to fund the 
purchase of a replacement vehicle. 
To recognise this, I think its fair to ask QIC to pay Mr G an amount of £10 for the loss of use 
of his car for those 30 days. QIC needs to pay Mr G £300 in total for this.
As Ive said, while there werent unnecessary delays to the claim in my opinion, I do think 
there were occasions when the communication with Mr G could have been better and the 
process explained more clearly. This meant he made a number of phone calls to QIC, and 
he was unsure what was happening with the claim. To recognise that the claim could have 
been handled better, QIC should pay Mr G £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold Mr Gs complaint. To put things right, QIC Europe Ltd must:
Refund one £100 excess, plus 8% simple interest from the date of the original 
settlement to the date of the new settlement.
Amend any internal or external databases to reflect that one claim was made, rather 
than two.
Pay an additional £1,159 in settlement of the claim, plus 8% simple interest from the 
date of the original settlement to the date of the new settlement.
Pay £300 for the loss of use of the car to cover the delay in the settlement being 
made.
Pay £150 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr 
G.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the above amounts within 28 days of us telling it Mr G accepts our 
decision. If it doesnt, then it will need to pay simple interest at a rate of 8% on the total 
compensation amount of £450 from that date to the date of final settlement (in addition to the 
specific amounts Ive stated above which should have 8% interest added). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman