DRN-2579341
The complaint
Mr D complains about his whole of life assurance policy he has with Vitality Life Limited.
What happened
Mr D was sold, through an independent financial advisor (IFA), his Vitality Life whole of life 
policy. This policy had an upfront discount applied to it as he took it out with a Vitality 
Optimiser. The sum assured under this policy was £150,000 and his premiums started at 
around £196 per month. Mr D was sold his policy on an indexed basis, so his premiums 
would increase each year in line with the Retail Price Index (RPI).
Mr Ds policy had a guaranteed premium. Vitality Life explained that this would only change 
under certain circumstances including the premium being indexed and if Mr Ds Vitality 
Status changes. So, depending on points that Mr D earned for being healthy, his premiums 
could go up or down by a certain percentage.
In 2020, Mr D received a letter which said that Vitality Life would be changing some of the 
benefits under the policy. One of the changes was that it was no longer possible to carry 
over 10% of points to a following year. Mr D raised a complaint about this. Specifically, he 
felt that the ability of Vitality Life to be able to change how points were accumulated meant 
this policy wasnt fit for purpose as a whole of life policy, and that it was therefore mis-sold. 
Mr D also complained about certain health parameters set by Vitality Life and how it was 
connected to another company that set out how the points system works.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained that the overall 
suitability of this policy for Mr D was the responsibility of his IFA. She also explained Vitality 
Life made it clear how the policy worked, but that it was up to Mr Ds IFA to explain this to 
him. The investigator felt Vitality Life had explained that it could change how the points 
would be accumulated and that it hadnt done anything wrong. The investigator also 
explained that the connection between two companies here hadnt caused any issues for 
Mr D.
Mr D disagreed with our investigator. Specifically he raised the following issues:
- Vitality Life sell these policies to people directly so it is irrelevant that Mr D was sold 
his through an IFA.
- As Vitality Life can change the terms of how points are collected this policy isnt fit for 
a whole of life contract. There is no probability set out of Mr D being able to achieve 
platinum status, so his premiums may rise over the course of his life. 
- If either Vitality Life, or the company setting out the points system ceases to exist 
then he will be left without a policy at a time when it would be more expensive to get 
life cover.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has sent us a lot of detailed correspondence outlining his points. Ive considered all of 
this carefully but have focused this decision on the main issues hes raised.
Mis-sale of the policy
Mr D has said this policy was mis-sold due to the way it operates. Mr D was sold this policy 
by an IFA. I understand he believes this is irrelevant here but this isnt the case. Mr Ds IFA 
was responsible for ensuring Mr D understood the policy, and that it was fit for his needs at 
the time. Mr D has said throughout the complaint that he doesnt think the terms of the policy 
make it fit to be a whole of life contract. When Mr D went to his IFA and discussed his needs, 
it was the IFAs role to ensure they recommended something suitable to address those 
needs. If Mr D feels this policy doesnt do that, then hed need to complain to his IFA.
I have noted Mr Ds point that Vitality Life sells these products directly, but it didnt sell the 
policy to Mr D directly. My role is to look at the individual circumstances of this complaint. As 
Mr Ds policy was sold by his IFA, I wont be looking into whether it was suitable for him at 
the time. This wasnt Vitality Lifes responsibility.
Terms of the policy
Mr D complains that the terms of his policy could change - specifically how the points are 
accumulated - and he believes this is unfair. Mr D also feels that, based on Vitality Lifes 
documents, hes unable to make an assessment about the future affordability of the policy. 
As he was led to believe that the policy had a guaranteed premium, he feels Vitality Life has 
done something wrong.
Although it was the responsibility of Mr Ds IFA to ensure the policy was explained properly 
and was suitable, Vitality Life still had to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. Ive taken a look at the information Mr D was provided and I dont think its done 
anything wrong.
Mr Ds policy had a guaranteed premium set out at the start and was payable for life. The 
terms of the policy set out specific situations when this premium wouldnt be guaranteed. 
Two of these situations apply to Mr D. Firstly his premium is indexed. This means it 
increases each year in line with RPI to a maximum of 10%. It wouldve been Mr Ds IFAs 
responsibility to explain this to Mr D, and to recommend this option. Vitality Life has 
explained that this option can be taken off by Mr D. But Im satisfied that it was Mr Ds IFAs 
responsibility to have explained this option to him. 
The second situation that applies to Mr Ds premium is his Vitality Status. This is achieved 
through a points system. Points can be collected in many different ways and are there to 
encourage members of Vitality Life to keep healthy. I can see in Mr Ds welcome letter from 
Vitality Life it says:
The way this part of your plan works could change over time, as new opportunities and 
technologies arise. We might change the way we award Vitality points or the way your status 
works.
So, it makes it clear that the points system can change. One of the main issues Mr D has 
raised is that this means hes unable to predict future affordability of his plan. But I disagree. 
Alongside Mr Ds welcome letter he received a schedule. This set out how much the 
premiums would be at each status level (from Bronze to Platinum) over the years up until 2065. Essentially, it sets out a best case and worst case scenario. Mr Ds IFA shouldve 
ensured the worst case scenario was affordable for him at the time. And in any event, the 
presence of this table means Mr D would be able to determine how much the premiums 
could be depending on which Vitality Status he held. So, I think Vitality Life has given Mr D 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
Mr D believes Vitality Life should set out future changes, or guarantee not to change 
anything. But its not uncommon for businesses to change terms over time, what is important 
is that the business ensures the contract changes are fair. In this case Vitality Life said it 
would no longer allow members to carry over 10% of points to the next year. It said this is to 
ensure its members focused on keeping healthy. I cant say that this change was unfair, or 
that it was done outside of its terms.
Mr D has also said Vitality Life should set out the probability of him achieving the highest 
status from the outset. But I dont think that would be possible. It has set out how much the 
policy premium could increase or decrease depending on Mr Ds Vitality Status. It also set 
out how Mr D could achieve points. It entirely depends on Mr Ds actions as to what status 
hed achieve. So, I wouldnt expect Vitality Life to have set out the probability of Mr Ds ability 
to achieve a certain status over time.
Ive seen Mr D has objected to certain parameters Vitality Life has set out. But this policy 
explains what those parameters are at the start and it wouldve been clear to Mr Ds IFA 
what those were. If Mr D was worried about his own circumstances and how that would 
affect his ability to earn points, it wouldve been for his IFA to point this out.
Vitality Life and its connected company
Mr D has raised concerns that the points system determining his Vitality Status is run by a 
different company. So Mr Ds policy will be underwritten by one company and administered 
by another. His concern is that if one of these companies ceases to operate then he may be 
left without a policy. 
Whilst I understand this concern it is a hypothetical scenario that could apply to many people 
with policies from many different providers. At this stage, nothing has happened to any of the 
companies connected to Mr Ds policy. My role isnt to look at hypothetical scenarios but 
rather to look at what has happened and whether something has gone wrong. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Vitality Life has done something wrong here.
To summarise, it was Mr Ds IFAs responsibility to explain this policy to Mr D, and to ensure 
it was suitable for him, including the effects of having his premiums indexed. I think Vitality 
Life has provided information that was clear, fair and not misleading and it enables Mr D to 
understand what his premiums could be over the next 45 years. And Ive not seen anything 
to suggest there has been an unfair change in the terms of the contract. So Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman