DRN-3410786
The complaint
Mrs L complains about a missed payment recorded on her credit file by Nationwide Building 
Society. 
What happened
Mrs L has a credit card with Nationwide. Mrs L has explained that at the start of 2021 she 
suffered some serious health problems that affected her sight and required a stay in hospital. 
Mrs L has told us that during this time her ability to access account information online was 
severely affected due to problems with her sight. 
In January 2021 Mrs L completed a balance transfer. Nationwide sent Mrs L a credit card 
statement that confirmed she needed to make a minimum payment of £85.89 by 24  
February 2021. Mrs L made a manual payment of £30 on 29 January 2021 and a standing 
order payment of £60 was collected on 1 February 2021. 
In February 2021 Nationwide issued a credit card statement that said Mrs L needed to make 
a minimum payment of £126.047 by 24 March 2021. Mrs L made a standing order payment 
of £60 and manual payment of £20 on 1 March 2021. On 2 March 2021 Nationwide received 
a follow up payment of £100.
In March 2021 Nationwide issued a credit card statement that asked Mrs L to make a 
minimum payment of £116.71 by 21 April 2021. A standing order payment of £60 was 
collected on 1 April 2021 but no other payments were received. Mrs L incurred a late fee of 
£12. 
In April 2021 Nationwide issued a credit card statement that confirmed arrears of £56.57 on 
the account and a total payment of £191.79 due by 22 May 2021. A standing order payment 
of £60 was collected on 4 May 2021 and a manual payment of £865 was made on 12 May 
2021. 
Mrs L went on to raise a complaint with Nationwide about the missed payment recorded on 
her credit file. Nationwide issued a final response on 18 June 2021 but didnt agree it had 
acted unfairly and didnt offer to remove the missed payment from Mrs Ls credit file. 
Mrs L referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly by reporting the missed payment on 
Mrs Ls credit file. But they thought Nationwide shouldve done more to make reasonable 
adjustments for Mrs L after it learned about her health problems and difficulties with her 
sight. The investigator asked Nationwide to pay Mrs L £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and take steps to adapt its future correspondence with her. 
Nationwide accepted the investigators view but Mrs L asked to appeal so her complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the circumstances leading up to Mrs Ls complaint. Mrs L has 
provided evidence to show she suffered health problems in around January 2021 that 
impacted her sight. I understand Mrs L spent some time in hospital during this time that that 
she was unable to read information available online or view Nationwides mobile app. I can 
see this was a stressful time. 
But I have to consider what Mrs L has told us about her health in addition to the other 
information available. I dont doubt what Mrs L has said. But I think its fair to note that she 
was making payments in excess of the minimum required throughout this period. Ive set out 
the payments made in January, February and March 2021 above. Each of these months was 
after the initial health problems arose. And in each month Mrs L made a standing order 
payment of £60 and a manual payment of varying amounts. I also think its fair to note that a 
balance transfer was completed in January 2021, increasing the amount owed. I think its 
reasonable to say this would lead to an increase in the minimum payment. 
Its not clear why manual payments were made up to March 2021 but not in April 2021. I 
understand Mrs L has explained her husband was handling her finances at the time and 
unaware of the increase minimum payment. But, as noted above, in the preceding months 
manual payments had been made that ensure the minimum payment was met. 
In addition, Nationwide has told us it was unaware of Mrs Ls health during this period. 
Nationwide says Mrs L couldve contacted it to ask for help and adjustments required to 
make its statements and correspondence readable. But no contact of that nature was 
received and Nationwide wasnt aware of Mrs Ls circumstances. I think thats a reasonable 
point. 
Nationwide is obliged to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies. As the 
full contractual minimum payment wasnt made in April 2021, Im satisfied it had reasonable 
grounds to report that on Mrs Ls credit file. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L but I havent found 
grounds to tell Nationwide to remove the missed payment. 
Our investigator thought Nationwide shouldve done more to ensure it made reasonable 
adjustments to accommodate Mrs L after it became aware of the problems with her sight. I 
agree as when Mrs L contacted it, Nationwide shouldve taken steps to ensure it was 
communicating in way that worked for her  including using larger text on its statements and 
correspondence. 
In response to the investigator, Nationwide confirmed it can make various adjustments to 
help Mrs L going forward and provided. Nationwide said Mrs L could contact it to discuss the 
adjustments she needs. In addition, Nationwide agreed to pay Mrs L £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. In my view, that figure fairly reflects how the issues raised have 
impacted Mrs L. As a result, Im going to proceed on that basis and award £150. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to settle as 
follows: 
- Take steps to make reasonable adjustments to correspondence and account information sent to Mrs L 
- Pay Mrs L £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman