DRN-2106044
The complaint
Mrs D complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management 
company.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mrs D took out in July 
2000. It was sold in store and covered her for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs D disagreed. 
Her representative said, on her behalf and in summary, that:
If Mrs D had been provided with clearer information about the PPI, in particular about the 
costs and conditions of the policy, she would have known she didnt need it.
Mrs D signed the application form where she was told to and was under the impression 
that the policy was a condition of taking out the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs D's case.
As this happened many years ago, I cant be sure exactly what happened, so I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
After careful consideration, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs D's complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Mrs D aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before adding 
PPI. As I can't be sure what was discussed when the PPI sold, I've relied more on what the 
paperwork from the time shows. I've seen a copy of the application form Mrs D signed. 
Looking at this I can see that Mrs D signed, separately from the main application, to confirm 
that she wanted PPI  and just above her signature - it says, Only sign this box if you 
require account cover. Ive thought about the likelihood that Mrs D was just directed to sign 
in this box. And I accept that this is most likely what happened. But Im not persuaded that 
Mrs D wouldn't have been able to check through the application before she signed it. The 
form, and the section about PPI, was quite brief, so I think she would have had time to read 
this, even though she was in a store.
So, overall and on balance, I think AXA did enough to make it clear to Mrs D that she had a 
choice about taking PPI. And that she chose to take it.
AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Mrs D, so it didn't have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs D about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should have 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ds circumstances at the time, it doesn't look like 
she was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover. As she could have 
benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about 
these things wouldve affected her decision take out PPI.
Mrs D told us she wouldnt have received any sick pay from her employer and that she didnt 
have any other means of meeting the repayments. Its possible she may have received 
some sick pay, but the PPI would have covered her payments until she returned to work,
or the balance was repaid. It also covered her if shed become unemployed. So I think she 
would have thought the PPI could be a useful for her.
Ive also thought about what shes said about her financial and personal circumstances at 
the time. But given the relatively small cost of the policy, I think it would have given her the 
peace of mind that her payments would be met if she couldnt work. And this would have 
been important given shes told us she had to provide for her young family. Im not 
persuaded that she couldnt have afforded the policy.
Overall I think Mrs D would have thought the PPI could have been a useful benefit for her in 
her circumstances. So, again, receiving clearer information would not, on balance, have 
changed what happened here.
Overall, I dont think Mrs D has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done 
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman