DRN-4348053
The complaint
Mr B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined a 
claim he made under his home insurance policy. 
RSA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As RSA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to RSA includes the actions of the agents.  
What happened
In April 2023, Mr B made a claim under his home insurance policy with RSA. He says his 
conservatory roof and the kitchen / main roof / boiler room suffered storm damage. RSA 
arranged for a surveyor to visit Mr Bs property to inspect the damage and validate the claim.
RSA declined Mr Bs claim, stating that the damage was caused by wear and tear. Mr B 
made a complaint, but RSA maintained its position. It said the damage to the main roof was 
consistent with gradual deterioration. It said it had arranged for another survey to be 
completed by a glazing specialist. They had advised that damage to the conservatory roof 
was consistent with wear and tear. RSA said water ingress into the boiler room was also of a 
longstanding nature.
Mr B remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. He provided a report 
from an independent surveyor hed instructed to inspect his roof. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He thought RSA acted fairly 
when it declined the claim.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said the damage to his roof was caused 
by a storm in April 2023. The local weather station 15 miles away commented that winds that 
day were in excess of 65 mph and may have been 75 mph where he lives, due to his home 
being on a hill. He felt the investigator had put too much weight on the reports provided by 
RSA which he felt were biased. 
Mr B said hed provided evidence from a local roofing contractor who had physically 
inspected and checked all the roof area in September 2022 and reported it to be in good 
order. The conservatory roof had been virtually rebuilt in 2022, with numerous panes 
replaced. He said the report from the independent surveyor hed instructed firmly stated the 
damage to roof areas were storm damage, not wear and tear. 
As Mr B disagrees with our investigators outcome, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policys terms and condition say cover is provided for:
Damage to your buildings unless more specifically mentioned in Extra Covers
This means damage to the building is covered unless excluded by a policy term. 
Mr B says the damage to his property was caused by a storm in April 2023. Weather reports 
from the nearest station to Mr B show the highest wind speed in April 2023 (prior to Mr Bs 
claim) was recorded at 49 mph. Mr B says he lives on a hill, so wind speeds might have 
been higher there.
RSA has accepted that the weather conditions around the time of Mr Bs claim may 
constitute a storm. However, it says the damage Mr B is claiming for wasnt as a result of a 
storm. The extreme weather conditions merely highlighted a maintenance matter. And its 
relied on the following exclusion to decline the claim:
Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes including deterioration, wear and 
tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
Damage to main roof
From what I can see, the damage Mr B claimed for on his main roof was concrete ridge tiles 
and roof tiles becoming loose.
The report from the surveyor who attended Mr Bs property in April 2023, says: When the 
surveyor inspected the main roof he observed that the damage was caused by Natural 
breakdown of materials.
RSA says there was significant undulation of the main roof where it can be seen to be 
dipping, which is a gradual defect. It says the mortar on ridge and hip tiles has de-bonded 
from the tiles. This isnt something wind would cause but is consistent with gradual 
deterioration and the freeze/thaw action of water during winter which causes cracks and 
pieces to fall off over time. Its referred to a photograph in the surveyors report and has 
commented that the only recent damage appears to be a piece of mortar which has de-
bonded.
RSA says when it settled Mr Bs previous claim, (in 2022) it paid for all hip tiles and some (or 
all) ridge tiles to be re-bedded. But tiles appear to have been repointed and not raked out 
and fully re-bedded. 
I can see from the photographs in the surveyors report that one of the hip tiles had been 
replaced, but the tiles near it dont look like theyd been re-bedded. There is also a 
photograph showing that a couple of the roof tiles had been replaced but the majority of the 
tiles dont appear to have been re-bedded, with moss appearing in some areas.
I appreciate that the report from the independent surveyor Mr B instructed refers to storm 
damage. But, having reviewed the photographs RSA has provided I think the storm is likely 
to have highlighted an existing problem with the roof, rather than being the main cause of the 
damage. I dont think its unreasonable for RSA to decline Mr Bs claim for damage to the 
roof because it seems to have been caused by a gradual breakdown of materials, which is 
excluded by the policy.
Damage to conservatory Mr B claimed for damaged panes on his conservatory roof. 
RSAs surveyors report says: On inspection of the conservatory, damage has been caused 
to the underside boxed bull head which is all rotten and the guttering is leaking. This has 
been an ongoing issue, hence the decay to the timber, and there is dirt and moss around the 
junction of the guttering. This is an ongoing maintenance issue.
RSA says that during Mr Bs previous claim, he was paid for four roof and two windowpanes 
which had been cracked but declined any additional works to the structure because of the 
poor pre-existing condition. It says that although some external beads have been replaced, 
images of the conservatory internally clearly show the structure is generally old and suffering 
from movement, which was known to Mr B and evidenced by previous putty repairs. 
The survey report from the glazing specialist RSA sent to the property in May 2023 says:
We have attended the site regarding the reported damage due to high winds. This is an old 
timber conservatory roof. a [sic] lot of wear and tear to the product. This is a wear and tear 
issue with multiple panes crack [sic] around the roof and front frame. This is from the natural 
movement in the timber over the years. And the glass becoming more brittle with age. The 
roof is fairly solid and with it being in between a main roof structure on 3 sides quite 
sheltered
Mr Bs surveyor suggested damage to the glazing panes was as a result of storm damage 
with a mixture of debris hitting the surface and movement due to wind uplift. 
However, RSA says theres no evidence to suggest these cracks were caused by flying 
debris, and they are consistent with rotation of the structure putting pressure on the glass. It 
says the whole roof should have been replaced previously after RSA pointed out the poor 
pre-existing condition during Mr Bs previous claim.
The photographs support what RSA says about the structure of the conservatory being old 
and in poor condition. Theres no evidence to show that the glass panes were damaged by 
falling debris. So, I dont think its unfair for RSA to rely on the wear and tear exclusion to 
decline Mr Bs claim for damage to the conservatory.
Water ingress into the boiler room
Mr B also claimed for damage caused by water ingress into the boiler room.
RSA says the water ingress was of a longstanding nature and previous stain block repairs 
had been carried out. There is no evidence of damage to the roof, other than the areas 
already identified as being the result of gradual deterioration and poor previous mortar 
repairs. 
RSAs surveyors report says:
On inspection of the boiler room, damage has been caused to the ceiling and walls. There 
has been rain water ingress over some time.
The surveyors pictures appear to show the presence of mould on the walls and ceiling. Given that the surveyors visit was only a few days after the incident Mr B says caused the 
damage, I think its reasonable for RSA to have concluded that the damage was due to a 
gradual cause.
In conclusion
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr B. But having carefully considered the 
evidence provided by both parties, I think the damage Mr B is claiming for is likely to be as a 
result of gradually operating causes, which is a policy exclusion. So, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for RSA to have declined his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman