DRN-4090865
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that ReAssure Limited mistakenly sold their investments twice to 
pay the same withdrawal. Although ReAssure Limited says it has reversed one of the 
transactions, Mr and Mrs W complain theyre still out of pocket.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr and Mrs W asked ReAssure to withdraw £20,000 from their investment fund. 
ReAssure sold £20,000 worth of their fund holdings. But due to an error, this money never 
reached Mr and Mrs Ws bank account.
A few months later, Mr and Mrs W noticed the money hadnt arrived, and complained. 
ReAssure apologised for the mistake, said it was re-processing the withdrawal, and paid Mr 
and Mrs W £200 to say sorry. Mr and Mrs W received their withdrawal sum.
A year later, in September 2022, when talking to their adviser Mr and Mrs W became aware 
their ReAssure holding looked much smaller than they expected. So they complained again 
to ReAssure. The firm replied to say an error had been made. When re-processing Mr and 
Mrs Ws withdrawal in August 2021, it had mistakenly removed another £20,000 worth of 
units from their fund. ReAssure apologised, said it had replaced the units into their policy, 
and paid them £350 to say sorry.
Mr and Mrs W continued to correspond with ReAssure on the matter, and brought their 
complaint to our service. They said they werent persuaded ReAssure had fixed the 
problems properly, because their investment was worth less than theyd have expected it to 
be had nothing gone wrong in the first place.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He thought ReAssure had demonstrated it 
had put things right for Mr and Mrs W. He was satisfied that while the replacement of the 
units ReAssure removed in error in August 2021 didnt happen until September 2022, theyd 
been left in the position theyd have been in had the units never been removed. So he didnt 
think theyd lost out financially. He agreed the experience had been worrying and 
inconvenient for Mr and Mrs W, but he thought the £350 ReAssure had paid was fair 
compensation for that.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I want to be clear what this complaint is about. There have been two related but 
separate events Mr and Mrs W have complained about.
Firstly, they instructed ReAssure to carry out a withdrawal in May 2021. This payment wasnt 
made until August, and Mr and Mrs W complained at the time. ReAssure issued a final 
response letter to that complaint, and paid Mr and Mrs W £200 compensation for the delay in 
making the payment.
That complaint has not been referred to our service. I note that ReAssures response to this 
complaint gave Mr and Mrs W six months in which to refer matters to us, and is dated 21 
September 2021.
The second issue arose when ReAssure mistakenly removed additional units in August 
2021, although the matter didnt come to light for over a year afterwards. ReAssures 
response to this complaint was sent on 7 December 2022, and Mr and Mrs W referred it to 
our service in January 2023.
This is the matter which I understand to be the subject of this complaint. Namely, the 
erroneous removal of units and how ReAssure rectified matters.
Id also like to note that I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr and Mrs W. Its not in dispute 
that ReAssure have made mistakes which left them waiting for a withdrawal, and then left 
their policy short of units for a long time. I dont doubt this will have worried them, and I can 
understand their desire to be confident that things have been put right.
Looking at whats happened, and the evidence both parties have provided, I dont think 
ReAssure have caused Mr and Mrs W a loss due to their actions in August 2021 and 
September 2022.
Im satisfied ReAssure removed 1,372.6836 units from Mr and Mrs Ws policy in 2021. And 
that it added 1,372.6836 units back to the policy in September 2022. By definition, this will 
have left Mr and Mrs Ws policy in the position it would have been in had the second 
deduction of units in 2021 not been taken in error.
Mr and Mrs Ws investment was in a particular fund. They werent the only investors in the 
fund. The fund manager is responsible for looking after an overall pot of money for all fund 
investors, and putting that money in various investment assets. At any given time, the value 
of all the investments and cash in the fund gives the fund an overall value. Each unit of the 
fund simply represents a particular portion of the fund at any given time. 
So as long as Mr and Mrs Ws holding of units is correct, whatever the time gap between 
their removal and reinstatement, the value of their holding in the fund will be the same as if 
the units were never removed. Their policy is simply worth the amount that many units is 
worth as a portion of the fund at that particular time.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W are concerned their investment is somehow worth less because 
around £20,000 wasnt invested for over a year. But I can assure them thats not the case. 
As Ive explained, the fund itself continued to be invested overall in exactly the same way. 
Adding their units back just rectified the proportion of the overall fund value they were 
entitled to. I find that their holding is worth exactly what it would have been, had their units 
never been removed in August 2021.
To put it another way  to the extent the units were worth less when ReAssure put them 
back in Mr and Mrs Ws policy than they were when they were removed, I am satisfied they 
would have fallen in value (and therefore Mr and Mrs Ws policy would have fallen in value) 
by that same amount had they never been removed. I therefore dont find Mr and Mrs W 
have suffered any financial loss as a result of ReAssures mistake.
It's clear from Mr and Mrs Ws submissions that this has been an upsetting and worrying 
experience as theyve tried to get things sorted out and understand what happened. I think £350 is fair compensation for that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I think ReAssure Limited has fairly compensated Mr and Mrs W 
so I dont require it to do anything further and dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman