DRN-3010236
The complaint
Miss N complains that Quint Group Limited took a monthly subscription payment from her 
which she didnt knowingly authorise.
What happened
In October 2020 Miss N was looking for a loan online. She completed an application and her 
details were sent to multiple lenders. None of the lenders were able to provide a loan but 
Miss N was then presented with a  website operated by Quint Group which gave her the 
option to open an account for membership of a service offering access to a panel of lenders 
and access to her credit score.
Miss N says that she didnt knowingly sign up for the service. But she realised in March 2021 
that shed been charged a £19.99 monthly fee.
Miss N complained to Quint Group and made a chargeback claim via her bank.
In response, Quint Group said that Miss N had completed its application process for an 
account. It said shed been informed during the application process that she would be 
charged £19,99 per month following a free trial. Quint Group said that Miss Ns bank had 
already refunded her payments and that there was no further action it needed to take.
Miss N wasnt satisfied with the response. She didnt agree that shed signed up for 
membership and felt that shed been a victim of fraud. She complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that based on what shed seen, she 
was satisfied that Miss N had completed the application process and that it had been made 
clear during that process that there was a free trial followed by a monthly fee. The 
investigator said she understood that Miss N hadnt benefitted from the membership but said 
that because the payments had already been refunded via a chargeback, there was nothing 
more for Quint Group to do.
Miss N didnt agree.  She said that even if she had signed up for membership, she hadnt 
done so knowingly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the Quint Group website and in particular at the sign-up process. The process 
requires an applicant to enter personal details, following which a confirmatory email is sent 
which the applicant has to click on before the application can proceed. Quint Group has 
provided information to show that Miss N was sent a confirmatory email and that she clicked 
on it to continue the process.
I appreciate that Miss N has said that she didnt realise that she was signing up for a 
membership. Having looked at the sign-up process, I think Quint Group have made it clear 
that by completing personal details and clicking through the various steps in the process, 
Miss N was applying for a membership. I can see that as part of this process, Quint Group 
made it clear that there was a £19.99 monthly fee after the free trial. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that Miss N knew  or ought to have known  that she was signing up for 
an account and that there was a monthly fee.
Miss N has said that she doesnt think its fair for Quint Group to process an application but 
not send anything to say that there was a free 14-day trial. Based on what Ive seen, I think 
that all of the key information was provided to Miss N, including information about the free 
trial and the monthly fee.
Miss N has also said that Quint Group didnt provide her with any services in return for her 
monthly fee. As I understand it, the membership gives a customer access to a panel of 
lenders. It also gives access to a customers credit score and there is a members area with 
monetary vouchers. I appreciate that Miss N didnt use any of these services but I havent 
seen anything to suggest that they werent available for her, had she chosen to use them.
Taking everything into account and having regard to the fact that Miss N has already 
received a full refund, Im not persuaded that Quint Group needs to do anything further here.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman