DRN-1841137
The complaint
Mr S says HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to help when he fell victim to a banking 
payment scam. He says HSBC should have done more to prevent the payment going 
through and that it should reimburse him for the money hes lost.
What happened
At around 5pm on 5 April 2019, Mr S made an online payment of £3,650 from his HSBC 
current account on the instruction of who he believed was a car dealer. HSBC called Mr S to 
check the instruction and he confirmed he wanted the payment to go through.
Mr S subsequently discovered hed made the payment to a scammer whod intercepted his 
emails with the car dealer and sent him an email containing the scammers own account 
details. Mr S contacted HSBC on the morning of 6 April 2019 to tell it what had happened, 
and to see what it could do to help. HSBC contacted the scammers bank on 9 April 2019 to 
see if any of Mr S money could be recovered. HSBC later confirmed to Mr S that no funds 
remained in the account.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr S complained to us. Our adjudicator looked at what had 
happened and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They felt HSBC hadnt acted 
unfairly by allowing the payment to be made and didnt think its attempts to recover the 
money had caused him any loss. 
Mr S replied that HSBCs security processes were inadequate and that this was supported 
by the subsequent introduction of the requirement for banks to check account names when 
processing faster payments. The complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And Ive taken that into 
account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have 
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr S when he made a payment of £3,650 to a new payee in April 2019, or whether it should 
have done more than it did.
The payment was for a significant amount and was being paid to a new payee. And HSBC 
clearly considered the activity to be unusual enough for it to have called Mr S to check that 
the payment was genuine before releasing the funds. During the call, HSBC checked the 
validity of the request and he nevertheless confirmed he wanted the payment to go through. 
HSBC said it would release the payment but that, if the transaction turned out to be 
fraudulent or made as a result of a scam, it wouldnt be liable. 
So, in the circumstances, I dont think Mr S has lost out because of the way HSBC 
processed the payment.
Regarding Mr S point that the beneficiary account holder and the payee name he gave 
didnt match, HSBC wasnt required to check those details at the time. Mr S suggests that, 
as the requirement to carry out such checks was subsequently introduced, HSBC should 
always have carried out the check regardless of when it had to. 
The scheme Mr S refers to, Confirmation of Payee (CoP), was originally announced in 
October 2018 but wasnt due to come into force for the UKs largest banks (including HSBC) 
until July 2019. The deadline for implementing the scheme was then delayed until March 
and, finally, June 2020. Given that the final deadline for joining wasnt until more than a year after Mr S made his payment, and that the scheme doesnt apply retrospectively, I dont 
believe it would be fair for me to find that HSBC should have done more in this regard.
When Mr S told HSBC that hed been scammed, HSBC acted to see if any of his money was 
still in the receiving account and could be recovered. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank 
confirmed to it that no funds remained in the account.
Its possible that HSBC could have acted more quickly than it did in seeing if the funds could 
be recovered. That said, I dont think Mr S would be any better off even if HSBC had acted 
immediately. I say that because, according to the evidence provided to us by the beneficiary 
bank, the scammer had used the funds by the early hours of 6 April 2019  several hours 
before Mr S first told HSBC that hed been scammed. 
Any further investigations into what happened to the money after it left the scammers 
account werent the responsibility of HSBC, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to that 
information. So, contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve the money was all HSBC 
could do to help Mr S at that stage.
Its unfortunate that Mr S has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience will have 
been very upsetting for him. But, in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that 
HSBC caused Mr S to lose his money. I cant hold HSBC responsible for Mr S having fallen 
victim to a scam, and I dont think HSBCs actions once it knew what had happened led to 
any loss. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask HSBC to compensate Mr S. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman