DRN-3026217
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Saga Personal Finance Limited (Saga) has unfairly turned down 
his claim under s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr L entered into a timeshare agreement when he was on holiday in North America. The 
timeshare agreement was with Business V and he paid a deposit of £1,025 in October 2014 
using his Saga credit card and then paid further instalments by credit card as well. Mr L has 
said that he was mis-sold this timeshare. Although the timeshare was in his and his wifes 
name, as the credit card used was his, this complaint has been brought by Mr L only.
Mr L said he was misled by Business V about what was entitled to under the agreement. He 
says Business V gave a very long and pressured sales pitch for the timeshare. Mr L was 
under the impression that he was buying points he could use toward an annual week-long 
holiday or he could save the annual weeks up and then take longer holidays every few 
years. But the following day he decided he wanted to cancel the agreement, so returned to 
speak with Business V. Instead of cancelling, he was persuaded to continue with the 
purchase as he was given an additional certificate that he says provided him with as many 
one-week holidays as he wanted for only £249 per week  this was to be arranged through 
Business R. Mr L says he only continued with the purchase due to this certificate being 
provided.
The following year Mr L says he spoke with a representative of Business V and was told his 
points werent worth as much, so he needed to buy more to still be entitled to a week-long 
holiday. He also said he was told that Business V was no longer affiliated with Business R, 
so he couldnt use the certificate anymore.
Mr L thought Business V misrepresented the benefits of membership to him and, if hed 
known that he might not have been able to use the Business R certificate in the future, he 
wouldnt have continued with the timeshare purchase. So he complained to Saga under s.75 
CCA, saying it was jointly liable to him for any misrepresentation made and he asked for a 
refund.
Saga said it didnt think there was the type of relationship needed between the parties for 
s.75 CCA to apply. It said that Mr L took out a contract with, and paid, Business V, but he 
was actually complaining about what Business R didnt do. So although Mr L could have 
complained about the acts of Business V to Saga under s.75 CCA, he couldnt complain 
about Business R.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought the relationships between the 
parties meant Saga needed to consider the complaint under s.75 CCA. But they went on to 
consider the claim Mr L was making and, having done so, didnt think Saga were liable to 
Mr L under s.75 CCA.
Saga didnt have any further comments, but Mr L disagreed with the investigators view. He 
explained that all of the holidays Business V provided were in North America, but the 
arrangements Business V told him about meant that he could exchange his points to be 
used all around the world. This greater flexibility was only provided after he had asked to 
cancel, so it was this that persuaded him to go through with the purchase. Mr L has said that 
the Business R certificate was presented with no expiration, so it could be used once every 
year. He feels that this was misrepresented to him. Mr L has also said he didnt know the 
certificate was withdrawn until hed already bought more points from Business V in 2015, so 
he thinks these were purchased by misrepresentation too.
As Mr L hasnt agreed with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
In coming to my findings, Ive listened carefully to what Mr L has said and read all of the 
available documents to work out what I think is most likely to have happened. I think its 
helpful to set out in some detail the documents that Mr L signed and then Ill see how they fit 
in with Mr Ls recollections.
The written agreements
Ive seen a number of documents that set out the arrangements and agreements between 
the parties. 
On 21 October 2014 Mr L signed a document that gave information about the products 
offered by Business V and how the timeshare worked. It also said Mr L would be enrolled in 
a points programme, which gave the option to use resorts through a different business, 
Business C  - in fact Business C operated a timeshare points exchange programme, so Mr L 
could have exchanged his Business V points into Business C points to stay in a timeshare 
property outside of Business Vs properties. It explains that there is an annual membership 
fee for Business Cs points programme.
Mr L also entered into a contract to purchase Business V points on the same day. He bought 
77 points that could be used every year for 25 years. The total cost of this was $10,940, 
which was paid by way of deposit of $1,541 and the remainder was paid at the rate of 
$189.50 per month for seven years.
On page three of the seven-page contract it has a section titled EXCHANGE PRIVILEGES. 
It says that Business V may negotiate with independent exchanges to make other properties 
available for timeshare owners. But it reads since many of the exchange contracts with 
other resorts and exchange brokers which make up the exchange program are of short 
duration, there can be no assurance that such exchange opportunities will be offered by 
Program Manager or, if offered, will be continuous over the life of this contract.
On the same day Mr L signed a one-page document titled ACKNOLWEDGEMENT OF 
REPRESENTATIONS. At the top of this document it has the trading names of Business V 
and Business C. It reads:Welcome to [Business C] points! We hope this information will assist you in getting 
the most out of your membership. The benefits of [Business C] Points are many, and 
include the following:
There follows a list of benefits that Business C offered, including a directory of available 
resorts and details of how to book. It also sets out how Mr L could exchange Business V 
points into Business C points for use. Mr L has initialled next to every statement, including:
Membership  You understand that the annual [Business C] membership dues of 
$124 has been paid for the first year, but the dues for each additional year of 
membership will be billed to you on your anniversary date by [Business C]. Your 
[Business C] dues must be current to transport.
I have also seen a certificate issued to Mr L. It is titled [Business V] Introductory Offer for 
[Business C] Points. It has $249 U.S.D. printed on the face of it and reads with this 
Certificate you can enjoy one (1) 7-night vacation stay though [Business R]. At the bottom of 
the certificate its stamped NO EXPIRATION.
Mr L has also provided me with a copy of a Public Offering Statement for Business V that 
sets out in some detail how it worked. In one section is explains how customers could 
exchange their points within Business V, but it also gave details about an external exchange:
The [Business V] Owners Association and developer have entered into a 
nonexclusive Master Affiliation Agreement with [Business C], by which [Business 
V] Owners may exchange their [Business V] points for time at a wide range of resort 
locations outside of the [Business V] programCurrently, there is no annual fee, but 
there is an annual membership fee (currently $124, but subject to change by 
[Business C]).
And below that there is a section titled Special Risk Factors, which include:
e. Prospective purchasers are advised not to purchase a timeshare interest for the 
primary or sole purpose of utilizing the exchange company benefits. There is no 
guaranty or warranty that the benefits you want are going to be satisfied, nor is there 
any guaranty the exchange affiliation with this (or any other resort) will continue.
Around a year later, on 6 November 2015, Mr L signed an agreement with Business V titled 
MODIFICATION to [Business V] Purchase and Security Agreement to purchase additional 
Business V points. Mr L bought a further 38 points, leading to a total of 115. It didnt lengthen 
the term of the contract, so it was still due to end in June 2039. The total purchase price was 
£15,025, which was paid with a $2,050 deposit, $10,940 equity and the balance of $2,035 
to be paid by twelve monthly payments of $169.58. On the same day Mr L signed a form that 
allowed Business V to collect each monthly payment from his credit card.
Again, on 6 November 2015, Mr L signed a document titled ACCOMMODATION 
CERTIFICATE PROGRAM DISCLOSURE AND PURCHASERS 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS. It sets out a programme run by another business, Business I. It 
reads:
1. I understand that as a purchaser of a membership in [Business Vs trading 
name], I will be entitled in a program whereby, under certain circumstances, I will 
receive an Accommodation Certificate for use in accordance with the terms of 
this disclosure (the Accommodation Certificate Accommodation Certificate 
Program).2. I understand that I shall be entitled to participate in the Accommodation 
Certificate Program for a period of ten (10) years from the date of my purchase.
3. I understand that I will be entitled to receive one (1) Accommodation Certificate 
(an Accommodation Certificate) annually per qualifying full-week exchange 
transaction. Such Accommodation Certificate shall be provided in addition to the 
regular exchange request that I am entitled to submit as a result of such deposit 
(the Regular Request).
4. I understand that each Accommodation Certificate shall bear an expiration date 
of one (1) year from the date of issuance.
5.I understand that the following additional restrictions apply to my use of the 
Accommodation Certificates:
a. In order to obtain and use Accommodation Certificates, I must maintain an 
active [Business I] membership and must be in good standing with the 
developer of my home resort at the time of relinquishment, redemption and 
through the actual travel dates.
b. I must travel prior to the stated expiration date on each Accommodation 
Certificate I receive, I will not be eligible for any compensation in the event I 
fail to redeem any Accommodation Certificate prior to its expiration.
c. Each Accommodation Certificate shall entitle me to request accommodations 
through the [Business I network] under the conditions set forth herein.
d. I will be required to pay a redemption fee of [$249] plus tax, if applicable, in 
order to redeem a Accommodation Certificate. [Business I] reserves the right 
to increase such redemption fees during the period of my participation in the 
Accommodation Certificate Program

The document goes on to set out how someone could use the accommodation certificate.
On the same day Mr L signed a document with had the logos of Business V and Business I 
at the top and it titled ACKNOWLEDGEMENT. It reads:
As a [trading name of Business V] Club Points owner, your will be enrolled as a 
member of [Business I]. We hope this information will assist you in getting the most 
out of your interval membership, including many memorable vacation experiences
The document goes on to set out the various ways Mr L could have arranged holidays 
through Business I, including by exchanging his Business V points. It says that Business V 
would enrol Mr L for a one year membership with Business I, but then it was for him to renew 
directly with Business I if he wanted to continue. Like Business C, Business I operated as a 
timeshare exchange programme.
Does s.75 CCA apply to this transaction?
Mr L paid for his timeshare using his Saga credit card. Under s.75 CCA, Saga can be held 
jointly liable for any claim made by Mr L against the supplier of a service for a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation, so long as he used his credit card to pay for the service and 
certain other conditions apply. Here, many of those conditions are met and not in dispute, 
such as the cost of the timeshare being an amount that triggers s.75 CCA, but Saga has 
said it doesnt think there is the right type of relationship between the parties. Mr L paid Business V by using his Saga credit card, and Business V provided timeshare 
membership and points to Mr L. Saga has accepted that it could be held jointly liable for any 
claim against Business V under s.75 CCA. But its said that Business R wasnt part of the 
agreement that it financed  in short, as Mr L didnt use his credit card to pay for anything 
from Business R directly. So, Saga says it cant be held liable for any of Business Rs 
misrepresentations or breaches of contract. I agree. Mr L bought a Business V branded 
timeshare and dealt directly with Business V only. Business V then arranged for Mr L to be 
enrolled in Business Cs programme for a year and provided the Business R voucher. So 
any services Businesses R or C offered Mr L werent funded by an arrangement between 
Saga and Businesses R or C, but were by an arrangement between Mr L, Business V and 
Businesses R and C. Additionally, I cant see the right types of links between the businesses 
that could mean they were associated for the purposes of the CCA, so bringing Businesses 
R or C into the arrangements funded by Saga. In those circumstances s.75 CCA cant apply.
But I can consider whether Business V breached any of the terms of its contract with Mr L or 
if it made any misrepresentations that induced him to enter into that contract. And if I find 
there were any breaches or misrepresentations, I could then direct that Saga pay 
compensation.
 
The written terms of the contract
Ive considered whether there has been a breach of the written terms of Mr Ls contract  I 
will talk about what he was told orally separately. Mr L agreed to buy membership of 
Business Vs timeshare and bought a number of points that could be used to book holidays. 
Mr L has said hes never actually used any of these points to book a holiday through 
Business V and hes not alleged that Business V has not allowed him to book a holiday 
using its points, so there is no evidence to suggest Business V breached the main terms of 
the contract. 
Mr L says that he bought enough points to be used for a week-long holiday in 2014, but the 
following year Business V told him that he needed to buy more points to continue to access 
a full week. Ive looked at Mr Ls original contract with Business V and although I can see the 
number of points he bought and that they could be used annually (rather than every other 
year), I cant see that there was any guarantee about how long a holiday the points could 
buy. But Im not surprised by that as Mr L wasnt buying a set week at a set resort, so its 
likely the cost in points for a week-long holiday would vary between locations and depend on 
the time of the year.
In the Public Offering Statement, that Mr L signed to say he had received, Business V set 
out in detail how it operated. It explains that points can be rolled over for up to four years, 
which fits in with what Mr L says he was told. The statement also lists the Business V resorts 
along with some of the features of each resort. But the statement doesnt set out how much 
it would cost in Business V points to have a week-long holiday in each of its resorts, nor is 
that set out in any of the other documents Ive been provided. But the statement does set out 
that Business V has worked out the total number of timeshare points it can sell is based on 
an average weekly point value of 105 points for a one-bedroom unit. So it would appear 
that Mr Ls 77 points purchased in 2014 were below the amount needed to get a week at the 
average Business V resort (as Ill consider below, I think there is evidence to suggest 77 
points was enough to get a week-long holiday at some resorts). But I cant say that there 
was a breach of the written terms of the agreement as I cant see that Mr L was guaranteed 
that his points would be enough for a week-long holiday every year. 
Ive also considered what the agreement says about Mr Ls ability to use Business Cs points 
exchange. From the extracts of the documents I set out above, I think Business V enrolled 
Mr L into Business Cs points exchange programme. It says that this was for one year, and after that year had expired Business C would charge Mr L directly for him to continue to be in 
the exchange programme. 
Business V also set out that it would try to keep its customers enrolled in an exchange 
programme, but it didnt guarantee who that would be with or how long the programme 
would be available for  in fact Business V specially warned its customers membership of 
these exchanges couldnt be guaranteed. By November 2015, Business V had ended its 
agreement with Business C and replaced it with a similar agreement with Business I. So I 
think Business V did what it said it would do under the agreement, by offering Mr L 
membership of Business C and Business I programmes.
Ive also looked at the certificate Mr L was given. He has said he was told he could get a 
week-long holiday with Business R for only $249 and, importantly, that this was available 
annually. But thats not reflected on the face of the certificate. It says the certificate can be 
used to take one (1) 7-night vacation stay though [Business R], so I think it is clear that this 
was meant to only provide one week-long holiday. I understand Mr L thought the words NO 
EXPIRATION meant he could use the certificate annually, but I dont think that was the 
case. I think it more likely explanation is that the certificate didnt have to be used by a 
specific date. The certificate doesnt say that it provides more than one holiday or that the 
cost of arranging the holiday came to $249, so I cant agree with what Mr L says. I also 
havent seen any evidence that Mr L has tried to use the certificate or has contacted 
Business R about it. But, importantly, any holiday was to be provided by or arranged through 
Business R, not Business V. So if Mr L hasnt been able to arrange something with Business 
R, that isnt something Saga can be held responsible for. I also note that the arrangement 
with Business I appears to offer annual accommodation vouchers that are similar to the 
Business R voucher, again offering extra annual accommodation for $249, but these were 
available if Mr L used the Business I exchange programme. 
What was Mr L told?
Mr L has explained that he was told things in the meetings with Business V that arent true or 
reflected in the written agreements. So I need to think about what Mr L was told. Some 
things said by a business before someone enters into a contract can become a term of the 
contract, and so can lead to a claim for a breach of that contract. But some things said might 
not be a term, but can be a representation that someone relies on before entering a contract. 
And if that representation turns out to be wrong, they might be able to bring a claim for 
misrepresentation.
Mr L says he first took out the timeshare as he was told he could save the weeks up and use 
them every few years for longer holidays. But having seen the written contract I can see that 
this was the case, so I cant say Business V misled him about that.
Mr L says that after taking out the timeshare he returned the following day to cancel it, when 
he was told about Business C and that he could get the Business R certificate, which 
allowed him to book annual holidays for $249. Ive thought about this, but I think Mr Ls 
recollections might be mistaken. All of the documents Ive been provided with from 2014 
were signed on the same day, so I cant see that he signed up to Business V on one day and 
then was told about Businesses R and C the next. Also, I think the documents he signed 
make clear that Business C operates a points exchange programme. One of the documents 
that sets this out, the Acknowledgement of Representations, is only a page long and has 
ten separate statements about Business C - Mr L has initialled next to every statement and 
signed this the day he took out Business V membership. So I dont think he was first told 
about Business C the day after he took out membership. Its possible that Mr L was given 
the Business R certificate the following day, but for the reasons set out above, I think the 
certificate is sufficiently clear that it offers one extra week of holidays.Mr L said in 2015 he was contacted by Business V and was told that the number of points he 
had no longer equated to a full week, so he had to buy more points. He says that he was told 
that the number of points bought in 2014 now only equated to 5 days, but he needed to 
purchase more to get to a full week. And when he then tried to arrange a points swap the 
Business R certificate had been withdrawn, so the extra points had been sold on an incorrect 
basis. 
In 2014 Mr L bought 77 points and a year later bought a further 38, or just under an extra 
50%. This brought his total number of points to 115, which was more than the 105 points 
Business V said was the average weekly points value for a one-bedroom unit. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the value of the points (in other words, what accommodation they 
could buy) changed between 2014 and 2015. 
I dont know precisely what was said to Mr L in 2014 and 2015, so Ive considered whether 
he might have been misled by anything that was said. I have seen some information that 
shows what could be bought with Business V points. 77 points was enough to buy a week-
long holiday in some resorts, but not at all resorts during more popular times of the year. So I 
dont think Mr L would have been misled in 2014 if he was told that 77 points was enough to 
purchase a week-long holiday. But 77 points wasnt enough to buy a full week in the most 
popular resorts at the most popular time of year, so I dont think Mr L would have been 
misled in 2015 if he was told that. But based on the information available, I cant say that he 
was told in 2015 that 77 points wasnt enough to buy any week-long holiday or that the 
buying power of the points had changed, as I dont think that was correct and would have 
been easily verifiable at the time. 
 
In conclusion, I cant see that Business V has breached its agreements with Mr L, nor can I 
see that it misled him about anything before he entered into any agreements. It follows, I 
dont think Saga acted unfairly in turning down Mr Ls s.75 CCA claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against Saga Personal 
Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman