The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the success fee being charged by Financial Claims Made 
Simple (trading as ReclaimPPI) following a successful claim with lender C. 
What happened
In December 2017 Mr F instructed ReclaimPPI to complete a free PPI check to find out if 
hed taken out PPI with any lenders. 
In March 2018 lender C confirmed Mr F had been sold PPI with two loan agreements. Mr F 
completed PPI questionnaires (PPIQs) for these loan agreements. He returned the PPIQs, 
along with a letter of authority (LOA) authorising ReclaimPPI to act for him in his claim 
against lender C. By returning the LOA, Mr F agreed to ReclaimPPIs terms and conditions. 
These explained that in the event of a successful claim ReclaimPPI would charge 10% of 
the money reclaimed +20% VAT. 
Mr Fs claim was sent to lender C. Mr F was sent an email explaining We've submitted your 
complaint to the lender and they'll have up to 56 days to respond from the date they 
acknowledge it.
On 26 April lender C wrote to Mr F and ReclaimPPI agreeing PPI compensation for the two 
accounts complained about. Mr F and ReclaimPPI say they didnt receive this letter. 
Mr F contacted ReclaimPPI for an update in June. ReclaimPPI emailed Mr F saying Lenders 
have 8 weeks to respond to a complaint normally, but because PPI has been in the news a 
lot recently, it can currently take even longer.
Mr F contacted ReclaimPPI in September asking what has happened to my [lender C] 
claim? ReclaimPPI emailed Mr F on the same day saying You may not have heard any 
more from them as you letter of authority is now invalid, as they are only valid for 6 months. I 
have requested a new one to be sent to you. Mr F signed and returned a new letter of 
authority within a few days, and it was sent to lender C. ReclaimPPI have explained that the 
incorrect letter of authority was sent to Mr F by mistake. 
Mr F contacted ReclaimPPI in November asking for an update. ReclaimPPI sent Mr F the 
correct letter of authority to sign and return. ReclaimPPI sent this to lender C, asking for an 
update. 
On 17 December lender C wrote to ReclaimPPI and Mr F saying that theyd already 
investigated Mr Fs complaint, and enclosed a copy of their letter dated 26 April 2018. 
DRN-1678225ReclaimPPI say that they didnt receive a copy of the breakdown in compensation attached 
with this letter, and so chased Mr F to provide this, but he didnt. 
On 28 January 2019 lender C wrote to ReclaimPPI and Mr F saying Thank you for 
accepting our offer of a payment of £3,912.44 in full and final settlement ReclaimPPI say 
they never received this letter. 
In May ReclaimPPI contacted lender C asking for an update. In July ReclaimPPI received 
confirmation from lender C that Mr F had been awarded compensation of £3,912.44, and this 
had been paid. ReclaimPPI sent Mr F their invoice for £469.49 for the successful claim. 
Mr F complained to ReclaimPPI about their invoice, saying ReclaimPPI had told him that 
they wouldnt be able to do anything more with his claim, and so hed dealt with the claim 
himself. Mr F said he wouldnt be paying ReclaimPPI their success fee. ReclaimPPI 
responded to Mr Fs complaint apologising for the way the claim was handled, and offered a 
£50 reduction in their invoice in recognition of their poor service. Mr F remained unhappy 
with this response and brought his complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a 
Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
The investigator found that ReclaimPPI hadnt kept Mr F properly informed, and caused 
delays in progressing the claim. Because of this, the investigator recommended ReclaimPPI 
reduce Mr Fs outstanding invoice by £150. ReclaimPPI agreed that they couldve handled 
things better, but said the maximum discount that should be offered on the invoice is £125. 
Mr F rejected the investigators findings, saying The only reason I received any money is 
because I pursued it myself I do not owe this company any money. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr F. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators findings, for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Theres no dispute that ReclaimPPI couldve handled things better. Mr F says that because 
of ReclaimPPIs poor handling of his claim, he shouldnt have to pay ReclaimPPI their 
success fee invoice. The terms and conditions agreed to by Mr F confirmed ReclaimPPI 
would charge 10% of the money reclaimed +20% VAT in the event of a successful claim. 
Mr F says ReclaimPPI told him that they were no longer dealing with his claim. But I havent 
seen any evidence to support this, or any evidence to indicate that the agreement with 
ReclaimPPI had been cancelled. So I think its fair that ReclaimPPI charge Mr F for the 
successful claim.
But I do think ReclaimPPI couldve handled things better. ReclaimPPI agreed that their 
service had been poor in some respects, but didnt agree with the compensation 
recommended by the investigator. So Ive considered the additional points made by 
ReclaimPPI when deciding what fair compensation should be.
ReclaimPPI say they didnt receive a copy of lender Cs letter dated 26 April 2018. They say 
they didnt chase lender C after the usual eight week timescale to respond, because  PPI 
has been in the news a lot recently, it can currently take even longer. I dont think this 
reasonably justifies why ReclaimPPI didnt chase lender C sooner. The evidence shows that lender C did respond to ReclaimPPIs requests for information 
within a reasonable timescale, for most of the chasers sent later in the process (even though 
ReclaimPPI say they didnt receive all of these letters). So I think there was a reasonable 
likelihood that lender C wouldve responded to ReclaimPPI if theyd chased soon after the 
eight week deadline. 
ReclaimPPI say that their  policy is to update the customer at least once in 6 months 
according to the FCA requirements. But I dont think this justifies their failure to contact 
lender C for updates, resulting in several months delay.
It wasnt until Mr F contacted ReclaimPPI in September 2018 that ReclaimPPI began work 
on Mr Fs claim again. Theyve admitted that the wrong LOA was sent at the time, and that 
this caused a delay. But even after the correct LOA was received and sent to lender C in 
November, there doesnt seem to be any reasonable explanation for why a further chaser 
wasnt made to lender C until some six months later in May 2019.
ReclaimPPI have explained that they didnt receive a copy of the offer letter of 26 April 2018, 
attached with lender Cs letter of 17 December 2018. So they asked Mr F to provide this. 
ReclaimPPI also never received a copy of lender Cs letter addressed to them dated 28 
January 2019.
Ive checked the address that the letters from lender C were sent to, and this matches the 
address for ReclaimPPI. Its unclear why correspondence wasnt received by ReclaimPPI, 
despite being correctly addressed. Following the LOA sent to lender C in November 2018, 
theres no reasonable explanation for why another chaser to lender C wasnt made until May 
2019. If ReclaimPPI hadnt received the full correspondence from December and January, I 
wouldve expected them to chase lender C about this sooner than May 2019. 
ReclaimPPI say that Mr F received a breakdown of the offer from lender C in December 
2018, and failed to send this to ReclaimPPI. From review of the online claims tracker, I cant 
see this evidence being requested from Mr F. ReclaimPI also say that Mr F received 
compensation but didnt tell them about this.
I accept that its likely that Mr F had this information, but it was also reasonable for Mr F to 
believe that ReclaimPPI were acting as his representative at the time, and that they wouldve 
received a copies of correspondence from lender C. The evidence also supports that lender 
C did send this to ReclaimPPI. 
So although I accept what the terms and conditions explained, and the responsibility on Mr 
F, given the circumstances, I dont think it would be reasonable to say Mr F was in the wrong 
by failing to send this to ReclaimPPI. It also doesnt explain why ReclaimPPI waited until 
May 2019 before chasing lender C for a response. ReclaimPPI were still Mr Fs appointed 
representative at the time, so it wouldve been reasonable to contact lender C (especially as 
they hadnt heard from Mr F) sooner than they did. 
ReclaimPPI say  The systemic issue here lies with [lender C] and their failure to respond to 
ourselves. I accept that lender C did delay in responding to the initial PPI check, and 
towards the end of the claim when ReclaimPPI sent a chaser in May 2019, and no response 
was received until July 2019. But considering other parts of the claim, long delays in the 
process were primarily the result of ReclaimPPI failing to keep reasonable oversight of the 
claim, and only chasing lender C following prompt from Mr F. 
In response to the investigators recommendation for ReclaimPPI to reduce the invoice by 
£150, ReclaimPPI say we secured a decision for the customer, and he didn't suffer any 
financial detriment. ReclaimPPI did offer a total of £125.00 to be discounted from his invoice. I accept that ReclaimPPI did work on Mr Fs claim which led to the successful 
outcome. But I also think Mr F was caused unnecessary inconvenience and upset in having 
to continually chase ReclaimPPI, and on many occasions, it was only after these chasers 
that ReclaimPPI acted on the claim. 
For the reasons explained I think a discount to the outstanding invoice of £150 is reasonable 
compensation in recognition of ReclaimPPIs poor handling of Mr Fs claim, and impact on 
him.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. 
Financial Claims Made Simple (trading as ReclaimPPI) should reduce Mr Fs outstanding 
invoice for the successful claim against lender C by £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman