DRN-2697273
The complaint
Mr L complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited asked him for a further 
payment after he cancelled his car insurance policy and didnt explain why.
What happened
Mr L had a car insurance policy underwritten by Watford, which he took out in November 
2019. He cancelled his policy in July 2020.
Watford said Mr L still owed them £240.89 and asked him (via the broker) to pay that amount 
to them.
Mr L says Watford didnt provide any information about how theyd calculated the amount 
they said was owing. When he first asked, he was simply sent a standard list of charges 
which might be made, as per the policys terms of business.
He was later told they needed to collect the outstanding payments on Mr Ls premium  
which he was paying monthly  because there had been a claim made against the policy.
And when Mr L didnt pay, he was sent debt letters demanding payment.
Mr L made a complaint to Watford. He said the two explanations hed been given for the 
amount Watford said he still owed were contradictory. And hed had no proper breakdown to 
show how Watford had arrived at that amount.
Watford didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint, so he brought it to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Watford had done anything wrong.
Mr L disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Mr L has told us during our investigation, I believe there are two main issues 
which cause him concern. First, he doesnt think Watford should ask for his remaining 
monthly premiums after hes cancelled his policy. And second, he doesnt trust the amount 
they say is owed because hes not been told how its been calculated.
To deal with the first issue, most insurers will provide a pro rata refund of the premium when 
a policy is cancelled and there have been no claims on the policy. But if the policyholder has 
already made a claim or had a claim made against them, most insurers will not refund any 
premium already paid (up front) and will insist on the full annual premium being paid if it is 
being paid in instalments. 
Theres nothing unusual about Watfords stance on this. Nor is there anything unfair or 
unreasonable about that approach. 
At risk of over-simplifying things, Id ask Mr L to look at this way. When you take out an 
insurance policy, you pay a premium and in return you have the security of knowing that if 
something bad happens, youll be able to put yourself back in the position you were in before 
(for example, your car will be repaired, your roof will be mended, or your stolen belongings 
will be replaced). 
Insurers calculate the risk of such an event occurring within a given period (usually a year) 
and set the premium accordingly. It wouldnt be fair if, when the insured risk event occurred 
within the first week of a policy and the insurer pays out, the policyholder could then cancel 
their policy and get a pro rata refund for the remaining 51 weeks of their policy. To put it very 
crudely, the customer has, in essence, already got what they paid for.
In case there were any doubt about this, its made absolutely clear in the documents 
provided to Watfords customers  either directly or via the broker or intermediary dealing 
with the customer. 
The Terms of Business document, available to Mr L before he bought his policy, says that if 
the policy is cancelled after the usual 14-day cooling off period, the customer will be entitled 
to a pro rata refund (less certain specified deductions):
 provided you have not made a claim or a claim has not been made against you.
When Mr L bought his policy, he was sent a covering letter (by email) which said he could 
cancel his policy within 14 days and get a refund:
 provided you have not made a claim and no claim has been made against you
That covering letter included certain documents and also asked Mr L to download other 
documents from the relevant website. It said Mr L should read all of these documents to 
ensure he was happy with the policy before the end of the cooling-off period.
Those documents included the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), the Policy 
Summary document and the Policy Wording document.
The IPID includes a section on cancellation which says:
If you have made a claim or a claim is made against you, you will not be entitled to a 
refund
The Policy Summary document says:
You may cancel this policy at any time You will be entitled to a refund as long 
as you have not made a claim or a claim has not been made against you 
The Policy Wording document says exactly the same thing.
Theres no dispute that there were claims on Mr Ls policy. And Im entirely satisfied, based 
on the information he was given, that Mr L knew  or should have known  that if he 
cancelled his policy after a claim had been made, he wouldnt get a refund and/or he would 
have to pay the remaining premium in full.Ill turn now to Mr Ls complaint that he wasnt given any clear explanation of how the 
remaining part of his premium was calculated  or why he owed £240.89.
When he first asked for clarification, Mr L was simply sent a list  taken from the Terms of 
Business document  of charges which might be applied by Watford and/or the broker. This 
wasnt an explanation of how the owed amount had been calculated. In fact, it was 
misleading, because it implied at least that there was a refund, but deductions may have 
been made.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration at this very standard response. However, I can see that 
Mr L got a further response two days later, which corrected the mistake and said there was 
to be no refund of any part of the premium because there had been a claim on the policy.
And we have a copy of a letter sent by email to Mr L around two weeks earlier, which set out 
 albeit in very basic terms  the total cost of the premium and the amount still outstanding. 
Theres no detailed calculations in that letter, but it is absolutely clear that the amount still 
owed is the outstanding part of the premium which had yet to be paid at the point Mr L 
cancelled his policy.
Mr L says he never received that email, but we have system records from the broker to show 
they did send it - on the relevant date and to the email address they had for Mr L.
So, Im satisfied that at the very latest by a couple of days after he made his first enquiry (if 
not two weeks before that), Mr L had been told that the amount owed was the remaining part 
of the premium  which was to have been paid in three monthly instalments to cover August, 
September and October 2020.
Mr L has said this still didnt amount to a proper breakdown of the amount owed. In effect, he 
hadnt seen the detailed calculations which led to the £240.89. And, indeed, he mistrusted 
the calculations because three months of his existing direct debit payment (at £81.59 per 
month) comes to £244.77. Theres a difference of £3.88.
I can see Mr Ls point here, although I note that the marginal difference is actually in his 
favour. 
Im also aware that the original cover letter sent to Mr L when he took out his policy broke 
down the total amount to be paid into three parts - the insurers premium, the brokers fee 
and the interest to be charged by the finance provider because Mr L was paying monthly 
rather than up front.
The letter later sent to Mr L after hed cancelled his policy did the same thing. And the 
interest charges set out at that point were reduced compared to the figure given in the 
original inception letter  by £3.88.
So, it seems to me that Mr L  from the information provided to him  could have worked out 
that the very marginal difference between what he was being asked to pay in July 2020 and 
what hed been expecting to pay in three months direct debits was explained by the fact that 
interest wouldnt accrue over August-October 2020 (i.e. what would have been the final three 
months of his policy had he not cancelled it).
I think Watford  or the broker, on their behalf  could have reinforced this information for 
Mr L after he queried the amount owed and then raised his complaint with them. But that has 
no material effect on what Mr L still owed. And I cant reasonably hold Watford responsible for any inconvenience Mr L has been 
caused by pursuing this matter when he knew, or should have known, that he was liable for 
the remaining premium payments - and he was being asked for a sum slightly less than he 
says he expected in those circumstances. Particularly given that the very small difference 
was explained by reference to documents Mr L had in his possession.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman