DRN-4487993
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc unfairly and unreasonably refused to pay 
her claim under her pet policy. 
What happened
Mrs W bought a maximum benefit policy for her dog. The policy started on 28 June 2022, 
and she renewed it for 2023. Her dog suffered from ataxia on 26 May 2023 and was referred 
to a specialist vet for investigation. Subsequently, Mrs W made a claim for the costs of her 
own vet and the investigation costs of the referral vet to Pinnacle to include the cost of an 
MRI in the total sum of £3,560.71.
Pinnacle said on investigating the claim and more particular the vet history of Mrs Ws dog, it 
noted her dog had suffered previous neurological issues before the policy started. So, it 
decided that the claim costs related to pre-existing conditions and therefore were not 
covered by the policy. This then excluded the costs for investigating the ataxia from 26 May 
2023 for which Mrs W had claimed. 
Pinnacle seeks to underwrite a pet policy if a consumer on application discloses previously 
suffered conditions. Mrs W did disclose on application that her dog had suffered some 
issues unconnected to this claim. So, Pinnacle wrote to Mrs W on 12 July 2022, 19 July 
2022 and 8 August 2022 asking her to get her vet to send Pinnacle the vet history for her 
dog. It never received the vet history from Mrs Ws vet at this time.
 
It said once it had reviewed the vet history following Mrs Ws claim, that she had merely 
carelessly omitted to disclose these previous neurological issues, rather than deliberately or 
recklessly. Therefore, under the Consumer (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) this means it was a qualifying misrepresentation. Under the terms of CIDRA any 
such qualifying misrepresentation permitted Pinnacle to impose the terms it would have 
done had the misrepresentation not occurred. It said under its underwriting guide had it 
known about the neurological conditions her dog had suffered before the policy start date, it 
would have classed them as pre-existing and therefore no new neurological conditions or 
symptoms would have been covered. 
So, in addition to refusing to pay Mrs Ws claim Pinnacle also wrote to Mrs W on 23 June 
2023 explaining that her policy wouldnt cover future instances of heat stroke, eye problems, 
neurological disorders, heart problems, respiratory problems and metabolic problems. 
Furthermore, all of these issues were non reviewable according to their underwriting guide, 
so these exclusions would stay on the policy always.
Mrs W complained but Pinnacle wouldnt change its stance, so she brought her complaint to 
us. 
The investigator was of the view Pinnacle hadnt done anything wrong. Mrs W didnt agree 
so her complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Insurers are entitled to decide what risks they wish to cover and which they dont under the 
regulations, provided they treat all consumers the same in similar circumstances. This is 
called their commercial discretion. Insurers individual underwriting guides in the pet 
insurance industry sets out what is covered, what is not and whether that can change in the 
future, and this ensures consumers in similar circumstances are treated the same. Its not 
unusual for pet insurers to exclude cover for any issue related to any pre-existing condition. 
So, I dont consider its an unusual or significant restriction by Pinnacle in this complaint. 
Neither do I have any authority to require any insurer to cover anything it had already 
decided it wouldnt cover. Therefore, my role here is to assess if Pinnacle adhered to its own 
policy terms and conditions correctly and I consider it did.
Here, unusually for pet insurers, Pinnacle seeks to underwrite any new policy where the 
applicant has disclosed some previous health events of their pet as many other pet insurers 
dont do this. Pinnacle asked Mrs W on 12 July; 19 July; and 8 August 2022 to get her vet to 
forward her dogs vet history. Sadly, this didnt happen for whatever reason. I consider if 
Pinnacle had received the vet history as it had requested, it would have been able to tell Mrs 
W in 2022 the restrictions and exclusions on her policy. That would have enabled Mrs W to 
consider what investigations she might have to do in 2023 given such further neurological 
conditions might not be covered. This is because once Pinnacle was able to see the dogs 
pet history following Mrs Ws claim, it detailed heat stroke, eye problems, neurological 
disorders, heart problems, respiratory problems and metabolic problems would not be 
covered under this policy for Mrs Ws dog because he had suffered symptoms of these 
issues before the policy start date. 
The policy says the following, all of which are relevant to Mrs Ws complaint.
 
Accidental Injury means a sudden physical injury which is the result of an identifiable 
and known cause or event. This includes any symptoms, whether or not diagnosed.
Condition(s) means any illness or accidental injury whether or not it results in a 
diagnosis. There will be conditions that will fall in the following categories:
1.Bilateral means any condition affecting right and left sides of your pet where 
there is an underlying cause. For example, hip dysplasia for hips, ear 
inflammation (otitis) for ears, cruciate ligament disease, or luxation of the 
kneecaps (patellae).
2. Recurring means any previous condition or symptom that may come back 
or is likely to happen to your pet again. For example, this could be repeating 
episodes of diarrhoea, vomiting or injuries to claws.
3. Related means if a number of symptoms are:
 Subsequently diagnosed as one condition; or
 Caused by, related to, or a result of another condition or symptom.
For example, a related condition could be excessive drinking as a symptom of 
diabetes. We would consider this as one condition not two.
When applying a maximum benefit or exclusion, we will consider bilateral, recurring 
or related conditions as one condition.Illness means physical disease, sickness, abnormality, infection or failure which is 
not caused by an accidental injury. This includes any symptoms, whether or not 
diagnosed.
Symptom(s) means a change in your pets normal healthy state, its bodily functions 
or behaviour.
Treatment(s) means any examination, consultation, advice, tests, X-rays, 
medication, surgery, nursing and care given by a vet, veterinary practice or member 
of an approved professional organisation following your vets instruction. We may call 
your vet to confirm that treatment was right for the particular condition.
Vet Fees means fees charged to give treatment for a condition.
Maximum Benefit Cover
The maximum benefits we will pay for each condition under this policy are shown in 
your certificate of insurance. Each condition is only covered until the maximum 
benefit as shown on your certificate of insurance is paid for that condition. After this, 
we will not make any further claims payments for that condition or any bilateral, 
recurring or related conditions.
What we will not pay for
Any condition or symptom, or anything related to it, that you were aware of or has 
been noted and/or checked by a vet, before this policy started.

Costs relating to routine or investigative tests such as pre-operative blood tests, 
unless these are to diagnose a condition for an existing symptom for a condition 
covered under this policy.
So essentially regardless of whether anything was diagnosed by the vet or not, if symptoms 
of a possible condition were suffered before the policy start date and were noted in the vet 
history, that condition or symptoms of that condition will be deemed pre-existing and wont 
be covered by the policy. 
In the vet history for Mrs Ws dog the following was detailed: 
Her dog had BOAS surgery on 8 November 2019. 
Her dog presented with heat stroke on 18 July 2021. 
Her dog presented with a seizure the previous night on 15 October 2021 and the vet 
said that Mrs W said there had been two similar episodes of this before. In that vet 
note possible epilepsy was noted and she was advised it wasnt usual to medicate 
unless the seizures increased in regularity. Mrs W was advised to keep a seizure 
diary. 
I consider this history denotes some symptoms that were neurological in nature which pre-
dated the start of the policy. The terms and conditions of the policy do not require any 
diagnosis to be made before such symptoms could be classed as a pre-existing condition, 
as condition includes just symptoms without any diagnosis in Pinnacles policy terms. 
In response to the investigators view Mrs W initially said her dogs previous issues were due 
to heat stroke. She then said it was due to issues concerning BOAS symptoms. However, 
the vet history notes both of these issues, plus more importantly the fact that her dog 
presented with a seizure on 15 October 2021, so well after both the BOAS surgery two years previously and the heat stroke some months previously. And more importantly that Mrs W 
told the vet in October 2021 that her dog had had two similar type seizures before. 
Vets are fully aware that insurers are permitted to consider that whatever the vet notes in the 
vet history for each pet is as accurate as possible. If there is any issue with what is written in 
the vet history then that is a matter between the consumer and their vet and doesnt affect 
the insurer. So, if Mrs W has any problem with what is written in her dogs vet history that is 
a matter between her and her vet only. If Mrs W had ensured her vet had forwarded the vet 
history back in 2022 when Pinnacle asked her three times in the summer of 2022, she would 
have been aware of this exclusion and indeed all the others at this time too, which would 
have been before she incurred these costs.
Therefore, in conclusion I dont think Pinnacle did anything wrong in relying on the vet history 
which shows previous symptoms of a neurological nature. Given its underwriting guide and 
policy terms its also clear these symptoms occurred before the policy date. On that basis, I 
consider that its then correct that under the terms of the policy and its underwriting guide, 
that Mrs Ws claim isnt payable by Pinnacle given the existence of these pre-existing 
neurological issues. 
And for the avoidance of any doubt given Mrs Ws claim concerned the costs of an MRI scan 
diagnosing Syringomyelia, such costs are only claimable if that condition would be covered 
under the policy. Since Syringomyelia is a neurological condition and neurological conditions 
are deemed pre-existing under this policy given the dogs vet history, those costs cannot be 
met under this policy. 
In conclusion I dont consider Pinnacle has done anything wrong in refusing to pay Mrs Ws 
claim. 
My final decision
So, whilst I do understand and appreciate Mrs W will be deeply disappointed with my 
decision, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman