DRN-3415377
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about Coventry Building Societys decision to decline the porting of 
their mortgage.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
15 July 2020, Mr and Mrs S contacted Coventry to discuss porting their existing 
mortgage. An application in principle was accepted and Coventry explained that all 
applications would be subject to underwriting checks and valuation, but that the next 
step would be to speak to a mortgage adviser.
Mr and Mrs S spoke with a mortgage advisor and in August 2020 Coventry issued a 
mortgage offer for £600,000. 
In October 2020, Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor contacted Coventry as the property had 
multiple titles, including a flat with a 52-year lease so the solicitor wanted to check if 
the mortgage would still be accepted as it didnt technically meet the requirements of 
the mortgage offer.
On 21 October 2020, Coventry withdrew its mortgage offer. Mr and Mrs S 
complained about the decision made and about the service received with the 
telephone mortgages team at which point Coventry accepted the call couldve gone 
better and offered £75 compensation.
At the end of October Mr and Mrs S having spoken with Coventry were looking to 
pursue the mortgage on just the single title for the house and explained they could 
purchase the other titles/parts of the property in cash. Coventry said that before they 
agreed to the mortgage, they would need a valuation of the property based on the 
single freehold property. So, this was referred back to the valuer for an assessment.
Mr and Mrs S sought valuation advice from the vendors agent and reduced the 
proposed loan to £550,000 to meet the loan to value ratio required. 
Mr and Mrs S felt Coventry failed to make any real progress to speak to the valuer in 
the next few weeks and this affected the sale of their property and they had to move 
the completion date to 20 November 2020. 
On 17 November 2020, the valuer stated the purchase for the single freehold 
property wasnt suitable for a mortgage and due to that, Coventry informed Mr and 
Mrs S of its decision to decline the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S incurred costs which they feel Coventry should be responsible for due 
to the delay in providing its decision.
Coventry acknowledged the delay and offered £200 in compensation. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed and asked for 
an Ombudsman decision, so the complaint has been passed to me, to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Coventry declined their 
application to port their mortgage and the delay in making this decision. 
Mr and Mrs S say they had to move their family into temporary accommodation twice after 
their property was sold on 20 November 2020. They also had to pay the early redemption 
charge (ERC) as well as storage costs for their personal belongings. They feel these costs 
should be covered by Coventry.
Ive looked at the correspondence between Coventry and the valuer and I agree that 
Coventry took some time in getting the valuation for the single freehold property and 
confirming that the mortgage was declined. However, I note it had made Mr and Mrs S 
aware that the mortgage wasnt confirmed as its subject to underwriting and valuation. From 
what Ive seen, although Mr and Mrs S were aware the mortgage hadnt been accepted, they 
exchanged contracts on the sale of what was their current property on 12 November 2020 
with a completion date set for 20 November 2020.
Coventrys decision to decline the mortgage was notified to them on the 17 November 2020. 
Mr and Mrs S say if the decision was made sooner than they wouldnt have incurred the 
accommodation or storage costs as they wouldve gone to another lender. Im satisfied that 
Coventry isnt liable for these costs, as it was never guaranteed that the application would 
succeed. Mr and Mrs S made the decision to exchange on their property knowing a 
mortgage offer hadnt been made, and there was no guarantee the mortgage would be 
accepted. I also cant say for certainty that they wouldve got another mortgage offer in time. 
For this reason, I also cant hold Coventry responsible for the ERC. Even if the mortgage 
application had been declined at an earlier stage Mr and Mrs S wouldve always had to seek 
an alternate lender, and wouldve incurred the ERC. 
Mr and Mrs S say they havent been informed why a single freehold title doesnt represent 
suitable mortgage security by Coventry. And that porting of the mortgage was fully compliant 
with Coventrys requirements based upon the single title.
Under the lending criteria, Coventry can decide how much credit exposure it is prepared to 
risk. The valuation report provided by the valuer is purely a valuation for internal use - it 
enables Coventry to determine the suitability of a property for mortgage purposes and to 
decide how much it is prepared to lend. Coventry also had concerns that if the secured 
property was repossessed and the property/land surrounding it was owned by Mr and Mrs S, 
it may affect its saleability (and so the sale value). The advice that Coventry received from its 
underwriters is that it could create contiguous land issues, so it made the decision not to 
offer a mortgage.
Its a businesss commercial decision to decide whether to offer a mortgage for the
single or multiple titles, and this isnt something our service would usually interfere with. 
Coventry can set its own lending criteria based on its appetite for risk. This is a legitimate 
exercise of Coventrys commercial judgment, so Im not persuaded that it has acted unfairly 
in declining Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage.
I can see that Mr and Mrs S have spent significant amount of time trying to resolve the issue 
and this caused them stress and inconvenience but Im satisfied the £275 offered by 
Coventry is fair and reasonable and in line with what I would have directed if it hadnt made this offer for the delay and service provided. So, I wont be asking Coventry to do anything 
else in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman