DRN-1473162
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy. Mr B says 
he was mis-sold such a policy in 1993 with a mortgage.
Bradford & Bingley Plc is responsible for the sale. But to keep things simple Ill refer mainly 
to B&B.
 
What happened
The MPPI covered Mr B in the event of being unable to work or losing his job. 
Our adjudicator who looked at the complaint recommended that it shouldnt be upheld but Mr 
B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
this complaint.
Mr B says he was told the mortgage would only be agreed to if he also took out MPPI with it. 
However, whilst I dont doubt Mr B is being honest and genuine when he says he was mis-
sold the policy, this all happened a long time ago. And Im afraid what Ive seen shows its far 
more likely he was presented with an option and that MPPI was something he wanted to 
have at the time.
I say this because we were shown Mr Bs original mortgage application form. In my view, it 
portrayed the MPPI as an optional product because there were two clear yes and no 
choices about having the cover. Mr B chose to buy MPPI protection costing £14.40 per 
month by marking YES of the form. He also signed the application form and a direct debit 
allowing for the premium to be paid from his bank. 
I think this shows clearly enough that B&B correctly obtained Mr Bs consent and he would 
have known he could have just as easily have proceeded without MPPI.
B&B says the MPPI sale wasnt an advised one. I dont think this aspect really matters or 
changes anything, but this means it was for Mr B himself to decide whether or not the policy 
met his needs at the time. B&B only needed to give him enough information to do that.
Obviously, after some 28 years, I cant say this was properly done. But I note he was also 
given a Mortgage Offer document. This is an important document which I think Mr B would 
have wanted to read quite carefully. It set out the cost of the MPPI and what it basically was 
for. I think the information he was given would have been adequate for him to make an 
informed choice.
Its possible that B&B could have explained things better than it did. But I dont think this 
would have changed what Mr B went on to do; I still think hed have bought the policy. This 
is because I think Mr B was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. I dont think the cost of the cover was 
substantially different from similar policies being marketed at the time and Ive seen nothing 
to suggest Mr B found the monthly premiums unaffordable.
Mr B told us he already enjoyed some protection from sickness through his job, but this 
doesnt make the policy of no use. His mortgage was secured against his home, so I can at 
least understand how a policy like this could have been of use to him in his situation. Policies 
like this are there to help in financially difficult times and it could have paid out a monthly 
sum of £240 for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim. This would have been in 
addition to any other means Mr B had at the time.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but the evidence clearly points to him asking for the cover to be 
added. I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct Bradford & 
Bingley Plc to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman