DRN-4041192
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) because they restricted access to 
her foreign currency account (the account) due to inactivity, making the account dormant. 
Miss M said being unable to access the account had financial consequences for her. 
What happened
On 1 March 2023 I issued my provisional decision to both parties which set out the 
background to this complaint and my provisional findings. My provisional decision said: 
Miss M had a Barclays foreign currency account which held money in USD.
Barclays wrote to Miss M on 29 March 2022 at the registered address they held for her.
They explained that due to inactivity on her account, the account would be treated as
dormant from 2 June 2022 if they did not hear from her. Barclays said this was to reduce the
potential for fraud to occur.
In early September 2022 Miss M tried to withdraw some funds from the account as she
intended to travel, and also because she wished to convert some funds to GBP and reinvest
them elsewhere. However, Miss M discovered the account was no longer accessible to her.
Miss M contacted Barclays who explained they had followed their process before making the
account dormant. However, Miss M said she had not received the letter dated 29 March
2022.
During the process of sorting things out, Miss M also raised concerns about the time she
spent on the phone with Barclays and their failure to call her back when promised. Barclays
offered Miss M £50 in acknowledgement of this, which Miss M did not accept.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. They concluded Barclays had acted in
accordance with the terms and conditions of Miss Ms account, and that Barclays had
followed their processes. The Investigator was also satisfied that the letter had been sent to
Miss Ms correct address. In addition, the Investigator noted Miss Ms account had been
reactivated within the 12-week timescale set out for Barclays to do this.
Miss M disagreed with the Investigator. In summary, she felt that Barclays had given her
wrong information about the status of the account. And that Barclays had wasted her time.
Miss M said it did not feel right that she should have lost access to her account for such a
long time, particularly given she was an active Barclays customer on another account, and 
she had contacted Barclays about withdrawing money from the account in March 2022.
Because of this Miss M felt there should be no reason for Barclays to have removed access
to her account  and she referenced the Dormant Bank and Building Society Accounts Act
2008, and the Dormant Assets Act 2022 in support of this.
As our Investigator was unable to resolve things, the matter has been passed to me to
decide.
Further information was requested from Barclays prior to my considerations, including details
of when Miss M last used the account, and clarification around Barclays processes.
Miss M raised a separate complaint with Barclays regarding her concerns about being given
conflicting information by Barclays about the status of the account in October 2022, and the
consequences of this misinformation. Barclays upheld that complaint in their final response
letter dated 30 October 2022, and paid Miss M £150 which she accepted. This does not form
part of this provisional decision.
Im also aware Miss M has made several points about the time taken to regain access to her
funds. However, the complaint that I have been given to decide relates to the complaint
raised and dealt with by Barclays in their final response letter to Miss M, dated 4 October
2022. This includes Barclays decision to remove Miss Ms access to the account, and
Miss Ms concerns about the initial attempt to engage with Barclays about it.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Miss Ms complaint should be upheld for broadly the same
reasons as the Investigator; however, as I have made some additional points, the parties
have the opportunity to provide any further submissions in reply to this provisional decision.
Barclays retail customer agreement terms and conditions explain that if a customer stops
using the account for a certain period of time, Barclays may close it by giving two months
written notice.
These terms explain that the notice will set out why the account is being closed, what can be
done to keep the account open, and what will happen to any money in the account and how
it can be reclaimed. I have not seen that they make mention of when an account may
become dormant.
Barclays terms and conditions also confirm that they participate in the unclaimed assets
scheme under the Dormant Bank and Building Society Accounts Act [2008].
Barclays have provided this service with screenshots, including a snippet of Miss Ms
statement for her account to support when it was last used. The account was last used on 25
October 2019 when a credit of $9,400 was made into the account, taking the balance to
$19,900.
While the terms and conditions mentioned above reference only the possibility of closing the
account following non-use of the account, Barclays also provided this service with details of
their internal guidance to support the length of time that would need to pass before they
would review the account and treat it as dormant.
In addition Barclays provided screenshots to confirm that the letter dated 29 March 2022
was issued to Miss M.
The 29 March 2022 letter confirms that as it had been some time since the account was
used, to reduce the potential for fraud, the account would be treated as dormant from 2 June
2022 with the funds remaining as Miss Ms funds and continuing to earn interest if
applicable. And that Miss M would need to either make a payment into or out of the account,
or call Barclays in order to keep the account active. The letter also set out that to reactivate
or close the account after 2 June 2022, Miss M would need to visit a branch with the letterand identification. (It is my understanding that Miss M did go on to reactivate the account
and move her funds out of it).
Because there was no contact from Miss M and no transactions made by 2 June 2022,
Barclays treated the account as dormant from this date. Miss M has said she didnt become
aware of this until September 2022 when she tried to access her funds.
In view of the steps Barclays took, it is difficult for me to say that they have done anything
wrong here, as they have acted in line with their processes. I also have no reason to believe
the letter of 29 March 2022 was not sent to Miss M given it was correctly addressed and was
issued, as shown on Barclays systems. Miss M has said she did not receive it, but I think it
was more likely than not sent to her, and it would be unreasonable to hold any failure for
delivery of the letter against Barclays, as that wouldve been the responsibility of the postal
service. Barclays have also said that the letter would have been something Miss M could
access through her app.
I am aware Miss M feels Barclays could have done more, and their actions were unfair,
mainly for two reasons. Firstly, that she contacted Barclays in relation to this account early in
March 2022. And secondly, because she had another active account with Barclays, and the
Dormant Bank and Building Society Accounts Act 2008 makes reference for consideration to
be given to other active accounts a customer might hold with the same institution.
Ive first considered Miss Ms interaction with Barclays in early March 2022.
As part of the additional information requested following the investigators involvement,
Barclays provided a copy of the call recording which took place between Miss M and the
Barclays staff member on 9 March 2022. Ive listened to this call.
Miss M explains she is calling to check what she needs to do to make a withdrawal from her
account, as she saw online that it may be necessary to reserve funds in advance. The staff
member confirms there is a foreign till at Miss Ms local branch and offers to send an e-mail
to the branch to reserve funds. However, Miss M says she needs the funds that morning and
the staff member says Miss M can go into the branch as there is a foreign till there, so she
should be able to go in and request them.
However, Miss M didnt withdraw funds from the account at that time.
Barclays have explained that a discussion in relation to the account at that time would not
have prevented the dormant account process from being carried out. Rather, a transaction
would have needed to take place to do that. And Barclays said their member of staff (at that
time) would not have known that the account, if not used, would soon become dormant.
Because of this, I dont think the interaction on 9 March 2022 was enough to have stopped
Barclays from sending out the letter on 29 March 2022, or making the account dormant on 2
June 2022.
Miss Ms second reason for not accepting that Barclays have acted fairly, relate to her
holding another active account with Barclays and the legislation mentioned earlier.
Ive considered the legislation Miss M has referenced; however, this recognises a bank or
building society account as dormant when there has been no customer-initiated transaction
for 15 years. So I dont think this legislation applies here.
Setting aside the definition of a dormant account as described for the purposes of the above
legislation, there is no set time a bank or building society must use to determine that anaccount is dormant  there is only industry guidance and good practice. And the time
Barclays allowed before setting in motion their dormant account process falls within the
generally accepted timescales.
I have considered good industry practice which includes guidance for banks and building
societies dealing with dormant and lost accounts. This encourages firms to follow ten core
pledges, which includes that in advance of making an account dormant following an
extended period of inactivity, firms will write to the last known address asking whether the
account should be kept open. Where no response is received it is expected that the account
in question will be made dormant with the funds remaining in the beneficial ownership of the
customer, continuing to attract interest.
I understand part of Miss Ms concerns are that Barclays shouldve done more to contact
her, by phone or SMS. However, as noted above, the general industry accepted practice is
to write to the last known address, and it is also generally accepted that where there is no
response, repeated attempts to contact customers is not expected, in part due to the
potential fraud risks of doing so. So I think Barclays actions have been reasonable here.
Taking everything into account, while I do understand the frustration Miss M experienced in
not being able to access her account when she wanted to, overall I think Barclays have
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances by making Miss Ms account dormant when
they did. And having reviewed Barclays internal records which support Miss M was on hold
with Barclays for an extensive period of time and that she was later not called back when
promised, I think the offer of £50 that Barclays made to recognise this is reasonable in the
circumstances.
Responses to my Provisional Decision 
Miss M replied to my provisional findings with further submissions. Miss M wished to explain 
that in March 2022 she had tried to withdraw funds. She said that following the telephone 
call on 9 March 2022 and instruction from the Barclays staff member, she drove 30 minutes 
to town, paid for parking and went to the branch only to be told that the foreign exchange 
bureau was separate to having a foreign currency account so they were unable to complete 
a transaction for her. 
Miss M said this demonstrated she had attempted to withdraw funds in March 2022, but 
Barclays prevented her from doing so. And had she been able to, then her account would 
not have been made dormant. 
Miss M also said the length of time regaining access to her account was part of the same 
problem, as this had affected the exchange rate of USD to GBP. Miss M therefore queried 
whether she could make a separate complaint to Barclays and then to the Ombudsman. 
We explained to Miss M that this service could not reconsider any complaints already looked 
at by our service. So it would not be possible to look again at the decision to make the 
account dormant, or the initial customer service Miss M received from Barclays when she 
discovered what had happened. It was noted that Miss M was free to approach Barclays to 
make a separate complaint about the delays shes described about regaining access to her 
account. However, given Miss Ms other complaint to Barclays (referenced above) and our 
service having no involvement in that complaint, it was not possible to know what Barclays 
would or would not look into. And it was highlighted to Miss M that if any further cases were 
referred to this service, as with all complaints, we would first need to consider if under the 
rules this service follows it would be a complaint this service could consider, and should 
consider.  Miss M acknowledged there was an overlap of time with these events, and said she would 
contact Barclays separately about the time taken to get back access to her account. 
Miss Ms comments about the branch visit in March 2022 were put to Barclays. And Barclays 
were invited to make any further comments to my proposal that Miss M should be paid a 
further £50 to recognise the inconvenience caused to her for having made an unnecessary 
visit to the branch. 
Barclays did not respond to the provisional decision or to the request for further comments 
by the deadline set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken Miss Ms additional submissions into account, and in the absence of any 
further submissions from Barclays, I think its more likely than not Miss M made an 
unnecessary visit to the branch in March 2022 when she relied on what she had been told by 
the Barclays staff member during their call. I therefore think its fair that Barclays pay Miss M 
£50 to recognise the inconvenience this caused. 
However, I remain of the view that the telephone enquiry in March 2022 was not enough to 
have stopped the account being made dormant as there was no transaction through the 
account. If information given to Miss M in the call on 9 March 2022 had been clearer, then I 
think its more likely than not Miss M would not have gone to the branch as she would have 
been aware it was not possible for her to obtain the funds she wanted on that day (given it 
seems from the call recording Miss M was looking to take out her money that morning). So I 
think its fair to say a transaction would still not have gone through the account that day to 
have stopped the account becoming dormant. And for the same reasons, I do not think the 
visit to the branch stopped the account being made dormant either.
 
Overall, for the reasons above and those set out in my provisional findings, I think Barclays 
actions to make the account dormant were fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And 
the offer to pay £50 to recognise Barclays could have provided better customer service 
around the calls at the outset of Miss Ms attempts to sort things out, is fair in the 
circumstances. However, I think Barclays should also pay Miss M a further £50 for the 
inconvenience of going to the branch in March 2022. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Miss M £100. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part and Barclays Bank UK Plc must 
put things right as Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman