DRN-3958589
The complaint
Mr B has complained to Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon that he was mis-sold a One 
Retirement drawdown plan. He says he requested a holding account until he could arrange 
an annuity but this is not what he was sold. As a result he believes he has suffered a 
financial loss. 
What happened
In 2021 Mr B wanted to use funds held in his Aegon personal pension to purchase an 
annuity. Aegon doesnt offer annuities so Mr B had been investigating taking one out  
through another firm. However, he was unhappy with the service the other firm had provided 
so he arranged a call with Aegon to discuss his options. 
The call took place in September 2021 and Aegon has been able to provide a recording of 
this call. 
The call handler started the call by explaining to Mr B that he could only offer information; he 
wasnt able to offer Mr B any advice. He also explained that he could only provide 
information on Scottish Equitable products and that Mr B would need to check if other 
providers had anything more suitable for him. The call hander also checked that Mr B was 
aware of the Government Service  Pension Wise  and Mr B confirmed he was and that 
hed spoken to them. 
Mr B also explained that he had wanted to take his tax free cash and an annuity but he was 
not happy with the firm he had been in contact with about the annuity, so he would rather 
take his benefits through Aegon because he had always been very happy with the service 
provided.  He said he was aware that Aegon didnt offer annuities but he wanted to stay with 
it so he was considering flexi access drawdown. He went on to explain that he wanted to 
take his tax free cash and leave the remaining funds invested. 
The call handler set out all of the options Mr B had through Aegon for taking his retirement 
benefits before explaining more about the One Retirement drawdown plan. The call handler 
also explained that with flexi access drawdown the pot remained invested and he went 
through the investment options available to Mr B through the retirement account. The call 
handler also explained that investments at that time were being impacted by Covid 19 and if 
Mr B took his benefits when the fund value was lower, he would be locking in at that lower 
value. 
Mr B confirmed that he wanted something similar to what he was invested in through his 
personal pension so something fairly low risk. The call handler explained there were two 
options for investments, option 1 was the investment pathways where Mr B would choose a 
scenario (from a possible four) that was most suited to his objectives. The second option 
was that Mr B made his own investment decisions, where he could pick from over 100 funds 
to invest in.
 
Mr B queried the performance of the investment pathways but the call handler said that he 
couldnt confirm this; Mr B would need to look though the information with regards to that. He 
also explained that the pathways had only recently been introduced early that year. And they 
ranged from minimal risk to below average risk. 
Mr B chose option 1 - the investment pathways - and he confirmed that the scenario that 
best suited his objective was scenario 2 that being I plan to use my money to set up a 
guaranteed income i.e. an annuity, in the next 5 years. The call handler explained that by 
choosing this option Mr B would be invested in the Aegon Annuity Pathway fund.  The call 
handler explained the objective of this fund and that it was guaranteed. 
Mr B queried the risk profile of the fund and whether charges would erode it and if would be 
similar to the cash ISA he was invested in at that time. But the call handler said he was 
unable to confirm this he was only able to provide information. Mr B also queried the fund 
being minimal risk but the call handler corrected him and said it was below average risk. Mr 
B said that must mean its below medium risk but the call handler confirmed he wasnt aware, 
all he could confirm was that it was below average. 
Mr B confirmed that he was happy and wanted to go ahead and the call hander explained 
the next steps and what paperwork would be sent out to Mr B. The call hander said once Mr 
B had read all the paperwork if he wanted to go ahead he should return the paperwork . 
Mr B went ahead with the plan, he received his tax free cash and his One Retirement 
account was set up and invested in investment pathway scenario 2. 
In April 2022, Mr B complained to Aegon that his plan had been mis-sold because he wanted 
the lowest risk fund available when investing. So he was bewildered that his fund had 
dropped by so much.  
Aegon reviewed the complaint but it didnt think the One Retirement account had been mis-
sold. It did acknowledge that it had been late in issuing its final response to the complaint 
and so it arranged for a hamper to be sent to Mr B. 
Mr B remained unhappy so he referred the matter to this service for an independent review. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think Aegon had done anything 
wrong.  In summary, the investigator said:
All the options available to Mr B were explained during the call with Aegon. And 
again in the paperwork that was sent to him, which also confirmed that there was no 
guarantee the fund would meet its objective and that it would subject to market 
performance. 
As Aegon dont offer investment advice, the set-up of the plan was completed as per 
Mr Bs instructions only.
The fund Mr B selected was invested in Alternative Investment Strategies - which is 
typically a below average risk fund. However, as with any investment, there was still 
a risk. Unfortunately, gilt investments have fallen in value recently. Whilst they are 
historically considered to be a safe investment and a good choice for those 
approaching retirement and planning on purchasing an annuity, due to a combination 
of factors it meant that the value has dropped. 
Its not unusual for the value of any investment to go up and down over periods of 
time. Investments funds are impacted by many factors. Due to unforeseen events 
over the last few years such as Covid-19, the Ukraine war and more recently the UK 
political events, investments, such as long gilts have been impacted.
Its worth noting that gilts work inversely to annuity rates. So, when interest rates 
increase, the value of gilts go down, but annuity rates go up. So, if even if Mr B has a lower fund value, he may still be able to get a similar annuity to what he could have 
got when his fund was higher because of the way the gilt and annuity relationship 
works.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said that he didnt think it had been 
considered fairly. In his view he had requested a holding account until he could arrange his 
annuity so what he was sold was inappropriate. He doesnt see how a low risk holding 
account can lose thousand in a few months.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to be good industry practice. 
Having reviewed matters, I agree with the outcome the investigator reached and for mostly 
the same reasons. As such, I dont think Aegon has done anything wrong so Im not 
upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call Mr B had with Aegon in September 2021. The call handler explained 
that Aegon was only able to provide information on its products; it wasnt providing Mr B with 
any advice. Mr B said he understood that and based on the information he was given, he 
chose to take out the One Retirement drawdown plan. He also chose where funds within this 
plan were going to be invested. So Im not considering whether Aegon provided 
inappropriate advice to Mr B. But what I have considered is whether Mr B was given 
sufficient information to make an informed decision. 
Mr B says that he wanted a holding account for his funds but that wasnt how the One 
Retirement drawdown plan was described to Mr B during the call. And it wasnt what Mr B 
said he was looking for either. The call handler explained that funds within the One 
Retirement plan would be invested and all the options Mr B had for funds to invest in were 
explained to him. I can also see that Mr B was sent details after the call about the One 
Retirement plan and I dont think anything in these documents indicated that it was simply a 
holding account. All the documentation explained that the funds with the account will be 
invested. So I dont think Mr B was given any misleading information about the plan itself. 
Ive also thought about what Mr B was told about the possible investment options he had 
within the One Retirement plan and again, I dont think he was given any incorrect or 
misleading information. In particular, Ive looked at the information provided regarding the 
particular pathway Mr B selected, which was aimed at investors that planned to set up a 
guaranteed income within the next five years. 
Mr B was told during the call that this particular pathway was below average risk. Mr B 
queried what this meant but the call handler said he could only confirm it was below 
average, he couldnt say anything else about the risk profile for this particular pathway. 
The information that was sent to Mr B on the pathway explained that This fund is aimed at 
investors who plan to set-up a guaranteed income (annuity) within the next 5 years. The fund 
invests primarily in a mix of fixed interest securities including UK government bonds (known 
as gilts). It aims to achieve a reasonably predictable level of annuity income, although this 
cannot be guaranteed. Typically, if the value of long-dated gilts goes down, annuity rates 
tend to go up and vice versa. So even if the fund value goes down just before you retire, 
youll be able to buy roughly the same level of income (size of pension) - although this 
relationship isn't perfect and there's no guarantee that the objective will be met. The fund information also set out that 97.5% of the fund was invested in Gilts, with the 
remaining 2.5% invested in Money Market. In terms of risks, the information sheet set out 
that: 
Risks specific to this fund
There is no guarantee the fund 'will meet its objective. The value of an investment can fall as 
well as rise and investors could get back less than they originally invested. All funds carry a 
level of risk and the information below outlines the key risks for this fund.
Inflation risk - this fund invests in lower risk investments, which means it shouldn't fluctuate 
in value greatly and is less likely to fall in value significantly. The downside to this is that 
returns are likely to be lower and there's a greater risk that they may not keep pace with 
inflation, it's therefore more suitable for short-term investment where you may need your 
money quickly.
Concentration risk - this fund invests in a smaller number of stocks (company shares) than 
most other, similar funds. This means there's a greater chance of loss if one or more of 
those stocks goes down in value
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr B was given any incorrect or misleading 
information about how the particular pathway he selected would be invested. Neither have I 
seen anything to suggest that he was given any guarantees or told that there was no risk at 
all with the investment option he selected, or that he was told that his investment could not 
reduce. And Im satisfied that his fund was invested in line with the information sheet, so 
97.5% in gilts, 2.5% in money market. 
The issue here seems to be surrounding the performance of the fund itself. Clearly Mr B 
wasnt expecting his fund value to reduce, given that he selected what he understood to be a 
fairly low risk investment pathway. The fund was made up of 97.5% gilts and these were 
widely accepted as being low-risk types of investments, and the type of funds I would have 
expected to see where the investor was intending to use the fund in the near future to 
purchase a guaranteed income, as Mr B was. However, even low risk funds can be subject 
to market volatility and are subject to some risk. But this volatility and the resultant drop in 
value was not as a result of any error or mismanagement by Aegon, and couldnt have been 
reasonably foreseen. 
I do understand how worrying it would be for Mr B to see the value of his pension fund fall. 
However, it is worth noting that often, as alluded to in the investment information, falling UK 
government gilt values may lead to improved annuity rates. So Mr B may find that he can still 
achieve the same or a similar income from an annuity, despite his fund value falling. So 
although his fund value has reduced, it doesnt necessarily mean he will have suffered a loss 
if he chooses to buy an annuity.
I realise this isnt the answer Mr B hoped for but having looked at everything, I havent seen 
that Aegon has done anything wrong here. So Im not upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman