DRN-2183413
The complaint
Mr M says Barclays Bank plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in November 1997. The policy 
provided cover to Mr M against accidents, sickness and unemployment. It covered Mr Ms 
credit cards, a visa card and a master card. They were closed by or before March 2005.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. Barclaycard disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Mr M says he took out the cards at a branch. Barclaycard say the sale was carried out 
through the post. I have seen the application form that was used in this sale and can see 
that it is the type of form used by Barclaycard at that time when it sold a card through a 
postal application. I cant be sure what happened, and I acknowledge what Mr M has said, 
but when I see the form used, I think its more likely this sale was conducted through the 
post. So, I will proceed that this was the case. 
I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint because:
I think Barclaycard made Mr M aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it. I say this because he filled in an application form which asked him to say if he 
required PPI. And I can see that the Yes option is ticked to indicate that he wanted to 
take the policy out. He could have left this box blank if he didnt want the insurance.
Barclaycard didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. It did have to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading.
It is possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But I dont think that clearer information would have made a 
difference to Mr M adding the insurance anyway.  
I say this because although Mr M told us that he was entitled to at least 6 months sick 
pay and £2000 savings, but I can see the policy would have paid more than his 
minimum credit card repayments for up to 12 months if he couldnt work. This would 
have provided a useful extra benefit at a difficult time. And he doesnt appear to have 
had significant other means to make his credit card repayments. I could not find any 
other reasons such as another restrictive or limiting term that would have made a 
difference for Mr M either.
The policy was also competitively priced and affordable. So, I think it unlikely Mr M 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided.
In conclusion, although I know it will be a disappointment for Mr M, I dont think Barclaycard 
mis-sold him PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman