DRN-3458716
The complaint
Mrs B and her husband Mr K complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled 
a claim on her motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Admiral
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
In March or April 2020, Mrs B got a new hatchback on a personal contract plan (PCP). The
car had an automatic transmission.
Mrs Bs teenage daughter had a provisional driving licence. On about 30 September 2020, 
she passed her driving test and became entitled to a full licence for light vehicles with 
automatic transmission.
Mrs B (or Mr K on her behalf) went online and took out a new policy for her hatchback. The 
policy covered her husband and her daughter as named drivers. Mrs B agreed to pay a 
premium of about £638.00 plus extras and insurance premium tax.
Unfortunately, while Mrs Bs daughter was driving the car in late April 2021, she and a third 
party van driver were involved in a collision at a junction. Mrs Bs daughter reported that 
shed entered the main road from a side road.
Admiral said that the hatchback had a pre-accident value of about £23,500.00 but it was a
total loss. Admiral said the policy excess was £850.00.
Admiral said that - when she took out the policy- Mrs B had carelessly misrepresented that
her daughter had a provisional licence. It said this was a qualifying misrepresentation under
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
Admiral said that if Mrs B had said her daughter had a full licence, then the premium 
wouldve been £1,423.00. Mrs B had paid only £638.00 or 44.83% of £1,423.00. So Admiral 
said it would only pay that proportion of her claim for her vehicle (less the excess).
Admiral treated Mrs Bs daughter as being at fault for the accident.
Mrs B complained to Admiral that it shouldve paid her claim in full and that her daughter was
not at fault for the accident.
By a final response dated early August 2021, Admiral turned down the complaint. Mrs B and
Mr K brought the complaint to us in early October 2021. They asked that Admiral should pay
her claim in full and pursue a 50/50 settlement with the third party.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the
claim being settled proportionately was fair. He thought that Admiral didnt need to pursue
split liability.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs B 
and Mr K and to Admiral on 5 April 2022. I summarise my findings:
I found it likely that Admiral was offering 44.83% of £23,500.00, less the policy 
excess of £850.00; and I didnt find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay any 
more.
Subject to any further information from Mrs B and Mr K or from Admiral, my provisional 
decision was to not uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Mrs B and Mr K disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
Admiral has given us the pricing (for the premium of £1,423.00). It not fair that 
Admiral hasnt given them the pricing.
Admiral have had a very bullying and threatening behaviour towards them.
They renewed their insurance with Admiral including their daughter in this insurance 
with an at fault accident. The premium was lower than £1,423.00. So based on that, 
the percentages are wrong.
Admiral has responded to the provisional decision as follows:
As the customer has refused to authorise the finance company to speak to Admiral to 
obtain a settlement [figure], it has not been able to make any settlement offers to the 
customer.
If a customer wishes to retain the salvage of a total loss car, the relevant salvage 
value would be payable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Damaged Vehicle
Mr K has said that Admiral said it would leave the damaged vehicle on his drive. But thats
not a complaint that Admiral dealt with in its final response, and I havent seen enough
evidence that Mr K or Mrs B had made that complaint before the final response. So if they
wish to pursue such a complaint, then they will have to make the complaint to Admiral and
wait up to eight weeks for another final response before the Financial Conduct Authoritys
dispute resolution rules will allow us to deal with it.
Unless Mrs B has cleared the finance, the damaged vehicle belongs to the finance company.
So I would expect Admiral to pay the settlement first to the finance company towards settling
the finance (with anything remaining from the settlement to be paid to Mrs B).The damaged vehicle is likely to retain some value. If Mrs B wishes to keep (or rather to
purchase) the damaged vehicle, then she would have to discuss that with the finance
company and/or Admiral.
Liability
An insurance company may make an outlay in paying a claim by its policyholder or a third
party. Its common practice for that insurance company to treat the claim as a fault claim
against its policyholder unless and until that insurance company recovers its outlay in full,
typically from a third partys insurance company. 
If the insurance companies agree to split liability (e.g. 50/50), then each insurance company 
will recover part of its outlay (e.g. 50%) but neither insurance company will recover its outlay 
in full.
Like most motor policies, Admirals policy contained a term giving it control of any claim
involving a third party. Admirals term was as follows:
We are entitled to:
conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf
admit negligence for any accident or claim on your behalf
The effect of that term was that  on a question of liability to a third party- Admirals view
would prevail over Mrs Bs view.
I will consider whether Admiral has applied that term fairly and reasonably. Unlike a court,
we do not hear from each driver and decide the extent to which each of them is responsible
for causing injury or damage.
Im satisfied that Admiral took into account Mrs Bs daughters report of the accident. But
Admiral received a claim for the third party, and it had to deal with that claim.
Im satisfied that Admiral did a reasonable and proportionate investigation. It placed weight
on the fact that Mrs Bs daughter had been on the minor road and the third party had been
on the main road. 
Admiral decided to settle the third partys claim rather than to incur the cost and risk of 
defending it.
Keeping in mind the policy term quoted above and the reports of the accident, I cant say
that Admirals decision was unfair. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to
change the way it recorded the claim. In any event, a 50/50 settlement would have been
recorded as a fault claim.
Provisional Licence
Mr K has said that he contacted a number of insurance providers on 30 September 2020.
Neither he nor Admiral has any record of either a telephone call or a webchat. So I dont find
that Admiral suggested that Mrs B should say her daughter still had a provisional licence.
From the proposal form, I find that Admiral asked Mrs B what type of licence her daughter
had - and gave her options including UK Provisional, UK Automatic and UK Full. From
the proposal form, I find that Mrs B answered UK Provisional. But as her daughter had passed her test for automatic vehicles that day, I find that the 
correct answer wouldve been UK Automatic.
As her daughter had passed her test that day, I consider that Mrs B didnt take reasonable
care to give a correct answer.
I havent seen Mr Ks policy for his new car. But insurers charge different premiums
at different times  as well as for different cars . So it wouldnt be evidence that Admirals 
figure of £1,423.00 was wrong for the old car in autumn 2020 , even if it quoted a lower 
premium for the new car after the accident in April 2021.
In any event, I accept Admirals (confidential) evidence that it wouldve charged £785.00
more if Mrs B had correctly said that her daughter was no longer a provisional licence holder
(subject to supervision by a full licence holder ) but was an automatic licence holder (entitled
to drive the car unsupervised). 
So I accept that the incorrect answer was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.
The policy terms included the following:
2. Please tell us immediately

if you or any driver named on your policy, have been disqualified from driving, your
entitlement to drive has been suspended or withdrawn (revoked) or your driving
licence status has changed, for example if you pass your driving test and your
licence changes from a provisional licence to a full licence
The words you and your referred to Mrs B as the policyholder rather than her daughter.
Nevertheless, I would expect Mrs B to tell Admiral that her daughter had passed her test and
her licence changed from a provisional licence to a full licence. I say that because it was a
significant change in the risk. 
But Mrs B didnt tell Admiral of that change when she took out the policy or at any time in the 
months between then and the accident.
I dont consider that Admiral did anything wrong by not asking to see Mrs Bs daughters
driving licence.
CIDRA gave Admiral a number of options. It didnt pursue the option to treat the policy as
void and decline to pay Mrs B anything. Admiral chose instead the option of paying the claim
proportionately. 
Im satisfied that this option (and the calculation of the proportion) was fair
and reasonable. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
dont direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2022. 
Christopher GilbertOmbudsman