DRN-3156524
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) has failed in its duty of care to support 
him as a vulnerable consumer. 
Background
Mr B has a bank account with Monzo. In 2020, Mr B started to buy cryptocurrency online. He 
says that over a matter of months he lost in excess of £80,000 by transferring money from 
his Monzo account to two different online cryptocurrency traders. 
During the time Mr B was making these transfers Monzo froze his account on a number of 
occasions. Mr B believes that his account was frozen by the bank because of the 
cryptocurrency transfers and feels that Monzo shouldve contacted him at this stage to offer 
him support. He believes that if Monzo had done this it wouldve prevented him from losing 
about £17,000 of the £80,000 he lost. 
Monzo has said that it was unaware Mr B was vulnerable, or that these transfers were 
problematic, until he contacted it at the end of March 2021. It says it offered to put Mr B in 
contact with its vulnerable consumer team while it investigated his complaint, but Mr B 
indicated he didnt want to speak to the bank until it had responded to his complaint in full. 
Monzo issued a response to Mr Bs complaint approximately a week after he logged his 
complaint. It said that as it was unaware that Mr B was vulnerable, or that the transactions 
had become problematic, it hadnt done anything wrong. It explained that Mr B could contact 
it if he wanted to discuss the support available to him and how the bank may be able to help 
him in the future.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint already. She felt that Monzo had missed an 
opportunity to provide support to Mr B after he had disclosed that he was vulnerable and 
spending in a compulsive way. On the back of conversations with her Monzo agreed to 
refund all of the transactions Mr B made after the 20 April 2021, as this was the date he 
spoke to the bank after it had issued the response to his complaint. Our investigator thought 
that was a reasonable offer and didnt ask Monzo to do any more in relation to the complaint. 
Mr B disagreed with the offer, he says it only represents about 3% of his overall losses and 
that Monzo had failed to safe guard him properly. He asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint and so the case has been passed to me for consideration.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order for me to establish whether or not Monzo failed to provide Mr B with adequate 
support and safe guarding I need to establish when I think it shouldve been aware that Mr B 
was spending in a compulsive or potentially problematic way.
Looking at Mr Bs account statements, and from his own testimony, I can see that when he 
started to buy cryptocurrency he did so by transferring money from his business account into 
his Monzo account. As these were authorised transactions to and from his own accounts, I 
dont think it wouldve been something that Monzo wouldve picked up on immediately.
I say this because bank accounts are no longer monitored by people. Instead they are 
monitored by algorithms, designed to check that transactions are properly authorised by the 
account holder. 
Mr B has said that on a number of occasions his account was temporarily frozen, and he 
believes it was because Monzo were checking on some of the cryptocurrency transactions 
he was making. Monzo has explained that when this happened it was to allow the bank to 
run some standard checks on the account and once they were completed the account was 
taken off hold. Ive not seen anything in the file sent by Monzo that shows the checks were 
linked to concerns that Mr B was vulnerable, or that he may need additional support. So, I 
dont have any reason to think the checks shouldve triggered Monzo into speaking to Mr B 
about how he was spending his money at that time.
However, when Mr B contacted Monzo towards the end of March 2021, he explicitly told it 
that he was spending compulsively, had already lost a lot of money and needed some 
additional help. He asked if he could make a complaint and during that complaint disclosed 
what had been happening. So, at this point Monzo was aware that Mr B required additional 
help. And therefore, I now need to consider what help it offered and what impact it had.
Mr B logged his complaint with Monzo on 22 March 2021 via the banks chat function. On 
the 24 March 2021, a representative from Monzos customer care team contacted Mr B 
asking if they could speak to him about his account and spending. Mr B replied to say things 
were bad, but he was currently with friends and it wasnt a good time to talk. 
Two days later Monzo tried to contact Mr B again, explaining it wanted to speak to him to 
find out how he was doing and what kind of help it could provide him. This time Mr B replied 
that he wanted to wait until the bank had considered his complaint before speaking to it 
about what support he needed. 
On the 30 March Monzo replied to Mr Bs complaint explaining it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong as it was unaware he was struggling to control his spending. Four days later, 
on 4 April 2021, Monzo messaged Mr B again asking if, now that his complaint had been 
answered, he wanted to discuss what support it could offer him. 
Unfortunately Mr B didnt respond to the email on the 30 March 2021 or the message sent by 
Monzo on 4 April 2021 and continued to transfer money to cryptocurrency sites, transferring 
in excess of £26,000 over the following three weeks. 
On 20 April Mr B contacted Monzo and discussed the type of support that could be useful. In 
its discussions with our investigator Monzo agreed that at this point it shouldve done more 
to monitor Mr Bs account and prevent him from transferring any more funds to the 
cryptocurrency trader. So, it agreed to refund all of the transactions Mr B made after this 
date, which came to a total of £2,690.I know that Mr B doesnt think this is enough, given the overall losses he has experienced. 
But in order for me to ask Monzo to do more than this, I need to be sure what impact earlier 
invention wouldve had on the way Mr B was managing his account.
I agree with Monzo when it has said it had no way of knowing that Mr B was spending in a 
compulsive or problematic way prior to 22 March 2021 when he contacted it about his 
concerns directly. After Mr B sent his initial letter of complaint, putting Monzo on notice that 
he needed additional help and support, I can see that it tried to contact him to find out what 
his needs were and how it could help.
This is exactly what I would expect a business to do in these circumstances. Its unfortunate 
that Mr B wasnt able to speak to Monzo when it contacted him on the 24 March 2021 as he 
was with friends. And it is equally unfortunate that when Monzo tried to speak to him about it 
again two days later Mr B wanted to wait until his complaint had been considered before 
discussing next steps. 
But I am satisfied Monzo did what it could at this point. It had flagged Mr B was vulnerable 
and in need of additional support and had tried to contact him to find out what sort of support 
he needed. So, I dont think there was much more it couldve done at this stage. 
Once it had issued its final response on Mr Bs complaint, Monzo again tried to contact him 
has he had said he would speak to the bank after his complaint had been answered. 
Unfortunately, Mr B didnt respond to this attempt by Monzo either. 
Three days after this Mr B began transferring money to the cryptocurrency site again. So, it 
seems that he wasnt willing to speak to the business at this time and instead was still in the 
midst of a compulsive spending cycle. 
At this point Monzos obligations were to offer Mr B support, speak to him to understand 
what his specific needs and vulnerabilities were and try to find ways to help prevent him from 
further harm. And I think it did try to do that, on more than one occasion. So, it would be 
unreasonable for me to say there was anything more Monzo couldve done to prevent Mr B 
from making the transfers he did between 22 March 2021 and 20 April 2021.
I do agree that this changed once Mr B made contact with Monzo on 20 April 2021. At this 
point Monzo was able to explain how it could help Mr B and what that help would look like. 
Therefore it is disappointing to see more transactions for cryptocurrency left Mr Bs account 
after this time. I think it was right for Monzo to suggest refunding these transactions to Mr B 
in acknowledgement that they couldve been prevented. 
Therefore, while I am upholding Mr Bs complaint against Monzo, I think the offer it has 
made, to refund £2,690 is enough and I wont be asking it to do any more. I know this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr B but I hope he understands why I have reached the 
outcome I have. 
Putting things right
In order to put things write Monzo should: 
Refund all the transfers made to cryptocurrency sites from Mr Bs account from 20 
April 2021 until the date his complaint was brought to this service. 
8% simple interest should also be awarded on any refunds from 20 April 2021 until the date 
of settlement. HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo to take off tax from this interest. Monzo must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Bs complaints against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman