DRN-2980730
The complaint
Ms B complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly increased the premiums for her residential 
property investors insurance following a claim for an escape of water. Where I refer to Covea 
this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Ms B made a claim on her residential property investors policy following an escape of water 
in early 2019. But the premium increased considerably in each of the following two years 
despite Ms B complying with all of her insurers requests. Ms B said shed incurred sizeable 
expenses and been treated unfairly by her insurer. So she wants her premiums reducing to 
the level they were at before the claim and compensation for her trouble and upset.
Covea said it felt the premiums charged were fair and reasonable in relation to the risk being 
insured and Ms Bs previous claim history. It explained insurers look at the level of risk when 
the policy is renewed and may make changes to the policy or premium offered. Covea said 
the remedial work itd advised was based on similar previous claims in Ms Bs area. It was 
intended to avoid such an incident happening again and to protect Ms B against future 
losses. Without the plumbing repairs it mightve been very difficult for Ms B to obtain similar 
cover in future. 
Ms B wasnt satisfied with Coveas response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He could see Ms Bs premium had doubled from around 
£650 before the claim and then doubled again at the most recent renewal date. But Ms B 
hadnt been able to take her business elsewhere as it was difficult to find an insurer willing to 
insure the property after such a large claim.
Our investigator explained he couldnt look at the risks behind the policy premium. But he 
could look at whether Covea had treated Ms B fairly. Hed looked at information from the 
underwriters explaining the increase in the premium. And he hadnt seen any evidence to 
show they hadnt applied their chosen pricing model consistently. So he couldnt say Covea 
had acted unfairly. And he couldnt uphold the complaint.
Ms B didnt agree. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. She accepted it might 
be acceptable for insurers to increase premiums after claims. But the scale of the increase, 
when she wasnt at fault for the escape of water, was unreasonable. Ms B said shed rebuilt 
the water system in her house to reduce the risk of re-occurrence. And shes been unable to 
find alternative cover for a couple of years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Ms B has been through. As well as dealing with substantial 
damage from an escape of water at her property, Ms B has faced considerably increased 
premiums for her residential property investors policy. 
I can see Ms B has raised a number of complaints in relation to this claim. And our 
investigator has explained which areas are being dealt with separately. So Ill focus this 
decision on the complaint relating to Covea and the pricing issue.
Our service cant tell a business what it should or shouldnt charge for the insurance it offers 
as thats its decision to make. To do so would be to interfere with its commercial judgement 
and thats outside of this services remit. But I can look at everything Ms B and Covea have 
said to see if Ms B has been treated fairly. 
Ms Bs property insurance, like many insurance products, is underwritten based on 
information gathered about the consumer and their circumstances. This might include the 
value of previous claims and the assessed risk of further claims of a similar or different 
nature.
When Ms B suffered an escape of water the cost covered by her policy was extremely high. 
So I wouldnt consider it unusual for the premiums to have increased as a result. I do 
appreciate that Ms B says shes carried out extensive repairs to the propertys water system 
to minimise the risk of another claim in the future. And shes investigated the installation of a 
leak detection system in the hope it will satisfy potential insurers of her reduced risk.
Unfortunately the size of the claim can affect the likelihood of other insurers being willing to 
take on the risk for a few years while they wait and see if other claims follow. And Ms B has 
put a lot of effort into contacting other insurers without success. So Ive also considered 
whether Covea has treated Ms B fairly while she has a restricted choice.
In situations like this, our service asks the insurer to explain the process theyve been 
through to determine the premium offered. Ive looked carefully at the information provided 
by the underwriters to explain the increase in the cost of Ms Bs property insurance. And 
based on what Ive seen I cant say theyve treated Ms B unfairly. 
Ive considered what Covea said about the insurance offered to Ms B and how it reached the 
price it had. Im satisfied the cost of Ms Bs residential property investors policy reflected 
Coveas view of the risk it was insuring. And the increases in price have been based on 
changes to its view of the risk.
Im sorry this isnt the answer Ms B was hoping for. Any escape of water is likely to involve 
some distress and inconvenience. And Ms B feels, despite her best efforts, shes being 
penalised by her insurer with substantially increased premiums when she has little choice 
but to pay.
But based on everything Ive seen I dont think Covea has treated Ms B unfairly when 
determining the level of premiums it feels are appropriate. And I dont think it needs to do 
anything more with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman