DRN-1500478
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Health UK Limited has unfairly refused a claim he made under 
his term assurance policy. To resolve his complaint, he wants the claim to be paid in full. 
What happened
In December 2010, Mr W took out a decreasing term assurance policy for a 35-year term 
alongside his mortgage lending. The policy had an initial sum assured of £109,000. It 
provides life assurance and critical illness cover. The policy was taken out with Friends Life 
Limited. Aviva has since taken over the operation of the policy as of December 2017. 
In February 2019, Mr Ws young daughter, A, was sadly diagnosed with a rare type of 
gastrointestinal tract disease. It causes a net loss of protein, a compromised immune system 
and several debilitating symptoms. Sadly, there isnt a cure for the condition.  
Mr W realised his protection policy also contained Childcover Benefit (CB). 
In the event of a successful CB claim, the policy provides either 25% of the current policys 
sum assured or £25,000, whichever is lower as at the date of the claim. This is unless a child 
is diagnosed with one of four specified conditions in the policy terms, in which case the 
policy provides either 12.5% of the current policys sum assured or £12,500, again based on 
whichever is lower as at the date of the claim.    
Mr W called Aviva and asked about making a claim. However, he was told that As condition 
was not one of the listed critical illnesses insured under his policy.  
In May 2019, Mr W emailed Aviva asking it to appeal its decision not to consider a claim. He 
explained how serious As condition is and he detailed how her symptoms will restrict her 
permanently. He explained how, when contacting Aviva recently for travel insurance, the 
disclosure of As diagnosis increased the premium significantly. He felt that if an insurer can 
take account of the condition for costing insurance, then it ought to give the same 
consideration for the seriousness of a critical illness claim. 
Aviva issued a reply along the same lines as the previous call, noting that Mr Ws policy 
booklet did not provide cover for As specific diagnosis. It also explained how the premium 
Mr W pays is based on a cost of the listed conditions or the risk of death, calculated at the 
time Mr W applied for the cover. The premium paid doesnt cover any other conditions. 
Aviva also sent Mr W a further copy of the policy handbook. It said it could show the 
handbook to As doctors to determine if she could claim under any other listed condition. 
Mr W made a complaint to Aviva. He also supplied additional medical evidence from July 
2019. This was a letter from As treating consultant, who had since reviewed the policy 
information. He explained the seriousness of As condition. The letter also said that her 
condition was akin to Crohns disease.
On 19 August 2019, Aviva issued a final response to Mr As complaint. It said it recognised 
the implications As diagnosis has had on Mr W, A and their family. But it reiterated that it was only able to consider a claim for one of the specified critical illnesses outlined in Mr Ws 
policy handbook. And whilst As condition may be similar to the listed condition of severe 
Crohns disease, it was a different condition and not something covered by the insurance.  
Mr W pursued a claim to this service. He said his partner has had to give up work to care for 
A, as she cannot be placed into childcare. Mr W said he took out insurance for the purpose 
of providing financial support to his family if he should fall seriously ill and the same 
consideration should apply for CB. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but he did not think it should succeed. He 
said he didnt expect Aviva to list every possible condition it didnt cover within policy terms, 
as this wouldnt be possible. But he did believe the policy wording was clear as to the 
conditions which were insured, and sadly, As condition wasnt provided for by Mr Ws policy. 
Mr W said he was disappointed with the outcome, and he asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. In summary, he reiterated some points he had made previously and 
also said:
As condition is both permanent and irreversible;
it has a close resemblance to severe Crohns disease; 
the severity of As condition is equal to, if not more debilitating than severe Crohns;
he accepts As condition isnt provided for by industry guidance;
but, that supports his explanation of the rarity of As condition  the figures for those 
affected globally are miniscule (and suggested as less than 1000 people);
on that basis, there is no more than a 1 in 7.7 million chance of a person receiving 
As diagnosis;
his GP and other doctors outside of the specialist hadnt heard of As condition;
he would therefore never expect Aviva to know about it, let alone have it as an 
industry standard condition;
on that basis, Aviva could consider an ex-gratia payment because of the rarity of the 
condition;
Aviva has told Mr W that it can apply discretion to paying claims;
the claim value is only a maximum of £25,000 and not the full value of any claim Mr 
W may have in any event;  
these circumstances are so rare, that an exception could be made here.  
The complaint has now been passed to me.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, I do wish to send my best wishes to Mr W and to A. I was sorry to 
learn of As diagnosis. I understand from the submissions made by Mr W during this 
complaint that As condition has a significant impact on her and her family. Despite my 
sympathy for them, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. I am not able to 
uphold the claim; Ill explain why.
My role is to decide if Aviva was reasonable in deciding to refuse the claim, and whether it 
acted fairly in the circumstances. 
Ive looked at the Friends Life policy booklet, which sets out the exact terms that apply to Mr 
Ws policy. In respect of CB, it says:Childcover benefit
We will pay childcover benefit to you, if during the period of the agreement, a child 
suffers or undergoes a critical illness subject to you complying with the requirements 
and obligations set out in the How to make a claim section, unless your claim is 
excluded by any of the circumstances listed in the What you are not covered for 
section.
The bold Critical illness definition is set out in the policys general definitions section as:
Critical illness(es)
Any of the illnesses and operations as defined in the Critical illness definitions section 
in this handbook relate to any illness or operation separately, not all of them together.
I can see that As illness isnt included in the definitions section. So Aviva has acted in line 
with the policy terms when saying that the claim isnt payable. 
I can also see the wording in respect of Severe Crohns disease requires:
A definite diagnosis by a consultant gastroenterologist of Crohns disease with fistula 
formation and intestinal strictures. There must have been two or more bowel segment 
resections on separate occasions. There must also be evidence of continued 
inflammation with ongoing symptoms, despite optimal therapy with diet restriction, 
medication use and surgical interventions.
I understand that protein-losing intestinal disease can be caused by Crohns. But it can also 
be caused by many other gastrointestinal diseases, including the rare condition that A has. 
These are all different conditions. And whilst each of them can reasonably be termed severe 
or critical, theyre not all included in these specified policy terms. 
Ive looked at the medical evidence supplied by the consultant paediatric gastroenterologist, 
but I dont believe Aviva took any unreasonable interpretation. The consultant does explain 
how As condition is both permanent and irreversible. He has done this because the policy 
booklet gives definitions for each of those terms, because theyre commonly used wording 
within several critical illness definitions (such as blindness, deafness and paralysis). 
The consultant goes on to explain how As circumstances closely resemble Crohns disease 
because there is evidence of the latter part of the definition  evidence of continued 
inflammation with ongoing symptoms, despite optimal therapy with diet restriction, 
medication use and surgical interventions. But he does not give a definite Crohns diagnosis 
nor does he evidence two or more bowel segment resections on separate occasions. 
It follows that I cannot say Aviva is being unfair or unreasonable in its conclusion that A does 
not have Crohns disease, for the purpose of measuring her circumstances against what the 
policy requires (a definite diagnosis of Crohns with bowel resections and persistent 
symptoms). 
Incidentally, though Mr W has said any claims value (if payable) would be the lower of 
£25,000 or 25% of his sum assured, Severe Crohns disease is one of the four specified 
conditions in the policy terms that pays a lower 12.5% of the current policys sum assured or 
£12,500. In any event, as Ive said above, I cant say Aviva is unreasonable in concluding 
that A does not have Severe Crohns disease as set out within the policy terms.  The nature of this type of insurance does mean that each condition requires a complete 
definition, as well as any policy exclusions which may apply. So, that will require an insurer 
to list every condition in full, ordinarily as Friends Life did here, by issuing a policy booklet. I 
dont find there to be anything wrong with that, particularly where the policy sets out at the 
start how the cover is restricted to listed critical illnesses.  
Aside from including mandatory conditions of stroke, heart attack, and cancer, insurers can 
decide what illnesses they will cover. Industry guidance from the Association of British 
Insurers proposes model wordings for insurers to use in critical illness policies, and the 
guidance expressly says how insurers are free to decide on the conditions and exclusions 
applicable to their products. 
The decision an insurer makes to include some conditions and not others in a critical illness 
policy isnt something we can look into or make awards about. Thats because our service is 
not the regulator; that duty falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. 
What we can determine is if, in the circumstances, a respondent business has been fair and 
reasonable in carrying out a contract of insurance. I know Mr W feels strongly about the 
matter. But in my view, the refusal of a claim for a condition which isnt provided for in the 
policy terms is a reasonable action for an insurer to take. 
It simply isnt possible for an insurer to provide insurance for every conceivable critical illness 
a person may suffer from, because the cost would be inherently unaffordable for most 
people. What critical illness policies provide is insurance against being diagnosed with the 
most common instances of severe illnesses. 
Some insurers do often include total and permanent disability (TPD) as an optional 
claimable event within critical illness policies, because a policyholder may become disabled 
but not have any other listed illness. However, TPD is expressly excluded from childrens 
critical illness cover, and Mr Ws policy confirms that exclusion. 
The reason is because where TPD is offered as an additional benefit, it is underwritten by an 
insurer based on a persons medical answers from the policy application. And, as is the case 
here, insurers arent able to assess risk for a policyholders child, because a child may be 
born after the insurance commences. 
I know Mr W feels that As position is so rare that Aviva will likely never encounter another 
claimant with her diagnosis. I dont dispute that. But I am not able to force Aviva to apply 
discretion or to pay a claim on an ex-gratia basis where it is acting outside the policy terms. 
Thats because its the terms that form the contract of insurance, and that activity (the 
carrying out of the contract) falls under the rules applying to this service. As Ive already 
stated above, I dont think Aviva has been unreasonable in how it has measured the claim 
under the insurance terms so I cant ask it to do anything more.   
My final decision
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr W, but I cannot compel Aviva to pay a claim 
where it has reasonably assessed that As illness is not provided for within the policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman