DRN-4503562
The complaint
Mr P complains Tesco Underwriting Limited unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2023 Mr P was involved in a motor collision with a third-party. He claimed for the 
damage to his vehicle against his Tesco motor insurance policy. Mr P told Tesco he would 
soon be going on a trip until June 2023. It wasnt possible for repairs to be completed before 
his departure. 
When validating the claim Tesco discovered Mr P had made a claim in August 2018. It felt 
as Mr P had failed to disclose it, when taking out the policy, he hadnt paid the correct 
premium. From mid-March 2023 it made various attempts, including by phone and email, to 
contact him about the issue. It provided two options. He could pay an additional premium of 
£45 or cancel his policy. As it didnt receive a response, after a warning, it cancelled the 
policy in late April 2023.
When Mr P returned to the UK, in June 2023, he contacted Tesco. He asked for his policy to 
be reinstated. It told Mr P it couldnt do that but could offer a new policy. He wasnt satisfied 
so raised a complaint. He asked that Tesco compensate him for causing him trouble by 
unfairly cancelling his policy when he was away. 
Tesco didnt accept it had unfairly cancelled the policy. It said it had tried to contact him 
about the undisclosed claim and additional premium request. It didnt accept internet issues 
had prevented him from responding. Instead it thought Mr P had chosen not to. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied. His car hadnt been repaired, he didnt have cover and he wanted 
compensation. So he asked this service to consider his complaint. 
Our Investigator felt Mr P had made a qualifying misrepresentation about a previous 
incident. So it was reasonable for Tesco to request the additional premium. But she felt it 
should have waited until he had returned from his trip instead of cancelling his cover. She 
felt if it had he would have paid.  
The Investigator felt a fair outcome would be for Tesco to repair Mr Ps vehicle, set up new a 
policy for him and to remove any cancellation marker from his records. She felt a refund of 
premium already paid to Mr P should be considered as being in lieu of any compensation.    
Tesco agreed to remove any record of the cancellation. It instructed its repairers to deal with 
Mr Ps car. It said he had always had the option to take out new cover. Mr P asked that an 
ombudsman consider his complaint. He felt Tesco had unfairly cancelled his policy whist he 
was away as he had been unable to respond to its emails. He also said the premium refund 
hadnt been calculated correctly. 
Mr Ps also raised dissatisfaction with Tescos decision to accept him jointly liable for the 
incident. This decision doesnt consider that aspect. It only considers the issue related to the 
policy cancellation and delay to repairs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this complaint, Im not going to require Tesco to reinstate Mr Ps policy or 
pay him any additional compensation or premium refund. 
Ultimately the origin of the issue is Mr Ps failing to disclose the August 2018 claim. The 
Investigator explained the relevant legislation, CIDRA. So Im not going to give a detailed 
assessment of the application of those rules to Mr Ps circumstances. Ill just summarise my 
thoughts.  
Mr P hasnt denied the August 2018 claim. So Im satisfied it happened. Im satisfied he 
failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation by not correcting the January 
2023 policy statement of fact sent to him by Tesco. This showed no claims in the last five 
years. Im satisfied Tesco would have offered him cover at a higher premium if he had 
declared it. So it was his qualifying misrepresentation that initiated this unfortunate chain of 
events. 
Tescos offer of an additional premium or cancellation may not have been in line with 
CIDRA. But I cant say Mr P was worse off as a result. A proportionate claim settlement, that 
may have been in line with CIDRA, could well have resulted in him being liable for a shortfall 
in Tescos settlement of his and the third-partys claim. 
Tesco was aware Mr P was away. Because of that it tried to contact him by email. It seems 
he received at least some of these. It might have been reasonable for Tesco to wait until a 
little after his known return date before cancelling his policy. He may then have paid the 
additional premium and avoided the cancellation. On the other hand Mr P, having received 
some of the emails at least, perhaps could have done more to engage with the situation.
In any event, I dont feel Mr Ps unfairly lost out having considered his role in this. Tesco 
offered him new cover soon after his return. Importantly it agreed to remove any external 
record of the cancellation  so he shouldnt be negatively impacted by the cancellation in the 
longer term. 
Unfortunately it wasnt possible to repair the car before Mr P went on his trip. And there was 
some confusion about arranging repairs after he returned. Again I cant put responsibility for 
this delay fully on Tesco. But importantly, as I understand it, repairs will soon be made or 
have already. 
In addition Mr P received a £300 pro-rata refund for the cancelled policy. That was 
calculated from the April 2023 cancellation date. He feels that isnt enough as the policy was 
cancelled earlier in February 2023. Ive seen the cancellation letter giving April 2023 as the 
date.  So Im satisfied Tesco was on risk until that date. So I cant say the refund was unfair. 
So whilst Tesco possibly could have done things differently Mr P played his own part in 
events. As Ive set out above the key issues have been cleared up now. I dont believe Mr P 
will lose out financially. So for those reasons Im not going to require Tesco to reinstate his 
policy, pay him any compensation or an additional refund. I will limit my direction to requiring 
it to follow through with its offer to remove the record of cancellation.  My final decision
For the reasons given above, Tesco Underwriting is required to remove any external record 
of the policy cancellation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman