DRN-2731956
The complaint
Mr R complains that two faster payments were blocked by TSB Bank plc within a short 
space of time. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial concllusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
Mr R has a bank account with TSB that came with a bank card. Mr R has explained that his
bank card was lost and he needed to withdraw the funds from his account to pay for food
and utilities.
Mr R attempted two transfers from his TSB account to another account he holds with a
different bank. Mr Rs first transfer was held for further checks by TSB. TSBs systems
placed a block on the account. Mr R called TSB and completed the verification process to
confirm the transaction was genuine and the account was unblocked.
Mr R says around 10 minutes later he attempted a second transfer, this time for a larger
sum. TSBs systems blocked Mr Rs second transfer request. As a result, Mr R had to call
TSB again to get the account block removed. During this call, Mr R complained and TSB
agreed to pay him £11 to cover the cost of his calls.
Mr R referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. He
recommended TSB pay Mr R £50 to reflect the inconvenience experienced and length of
time he spent on the phone. TSB didnt accept and asked to appeal. TSB said its systems
had highlighted the transfers for additional checks, in line with its process, and no errors had
been made. TSB also explained that Mr Rs second call was substantially longer than the
first because he raised a complaint which took additional time. As TSB has asked to appeal,
Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr R will likely find my provisional decision disappointing, but I havent found
that TSB made an error or treated him unfairly in this case.
I can see two transfers were picked up by TSBs fraud prevention systems within a short
space of time, but I can only fairly award compensation where a business has made an error
or treated its customer unfairly. And I havent been persuaded thats happened in this case.
TSB has sent us systems notes that show both payments were picked up for further checks.
The information shows its systems picked up a risk of fraud. I understand the transactions
were entirely genuine, but TSBs terms and conditions say it can suspend account access
where it has concerns about the security of the account or fraud. In this case, Im satisfied
that both payments Mr R tried to make were picked up by TSBs systems and required
verification to approve. So, I cant fairly say TSB made a mistake when it placed blocks on
Mr Rs account.
TSB responded to the investigator and pointed out the second attempted payment was for
more than the first. As a result, it was subject to the same checks as all payments made
from an account. Whilst I understand the transactions in question were authorised by Mr R, I
havent been persuaded an error was made because two transactions were blocked within a
short period.
The investigator thought Mr R had been inconvenienced because he had to call TSB twice. I
agree it was inconvenient, but I have to balance that against TSBs point that it was acting to
protect Mr Rs account. Whilst I can see Mr R did spend a reasonable amount of time on the
phone, I havent found the situation caused an unreasonable level of inconvenience in this
case. I also think TSB makes a reasonable point when it says Mr Rs second phone call took
longer because he raised a complaint.
TSB paid Mr R £11 to cover his call costs so he didnt lose out financially as a result of the
account blocks. Whilst I appreciate why Mr R was frustrated by the situation, I havent been
persuaded that TSB made a mistake or treated him unfairly. Based on everything Ive seen
so far, I dont intend to uphold Mr Rs complaint or tell TSB to take any further action.
I asked Mr R and TSB to respond with any comments or new information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Mr R responded and said he thought the 
settlement should take he time it had taken to refer his complaint to us into account. TSB 
didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr R raised compensation for the time taken to refer 
a complaint to our service into account. I understand it has taken Mr R some time to refer his 
complaint to us, but we dont normally make an award on that basis. And, in this case, as I 
set out in my provisional decision Im satisfied TSB acted fairly when it covered Mr Rs call 
costs. I havent been persuaded to increase the award as I still think TSB dealt with Mr Rs 
complaint fairly. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because TSB Bank plc has already paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman