DRN-3850574
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint, made through his representative, concerns his Contracts for Difference 
(CFD) trading account held with a business that Ill refer to as B. The complaint is against 
Accendo Markets Limited (Accendo), which introduced Mr L to B. 
In brief, Mr L says despite Accendos assertion that its role was limited to an introduction 
only and operated his account on an execution-only basis, it closed three of his open 
positions without his knowledge. He feels this mayve been done for the purpose of earning 
commission. Mr L says the losses suffered through Accendos misconduct represent the 
majority of his savings and have caused him significant distress.
What happened
Mr L was introduced to B by Accendo and opened his CFD account in October 2013 and he 
traded regularly until February 2018. On 24 March 2017, three of his positions were closed, 
realising losses of just over £88,000 and reducing his account balance to around £5,000. 
Mr Ls complaint relating to the closure of these positions was referred to Accendo by our 
service, in August 2022. Accendo issued its final response in which it didnt uphold the 
complaint as it appeared to relate to services provided by B, and not Accendo. It felt the 
complaint related to Mr L failing to meet ongoing margin requirements on his trading account 
and Bs application of its margin closeout policy. 
Mr L was dissatisfied with Accendos response and so he raised his complaint with our 
service through his representative. 
Our investigator reached broadly the same conclusions as Accendo. He said, in brief:
Mr Ls positions were closed by B, rather than Accendo, following a margin call due 
to his account equity dropping below 50% of the margin requirement. This being so, 
the investigator didnt think that Accendo could be held responsible for the losses 
Mr L incurred from the closure of the positions. 
Although the complaint was against Accendo, the investigator provided an 
explanation of why B closed Mr Ls positions, to help him understand why this was 
done. He also explained that Mr L was sent margin call notifications by B prior to the 
margin closures, notifying him that his account equity was low, and prompting him to 
deposit funds if he wished for his positions to remain open. 
He explained that if Mr L remained dissatisfied, he would need to raise this complaint 
with B.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the matters been referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I recognise Mr L feels strongly about his complaint and that Accendo is responsible for the 
losses incurred. But turning to the evidence, I note weve been provided with a submission 
by B, as a third party to this complaint against Accendo. And while B has confirmed Accendo 
held power of attorney for Mr L, which wouldve allowed it to place trades on his account on 
his behalf, B has also confirmed it closed Mr Ls positions on 24 March 2017, rather than 
Accendo. 
B explained it actioned margin closures of Mr Ls positions as his equity dropped below 50% 
of the margin requirement. B also provided evidence of the margin call notifications sent to 
Mr L prior to actioning the margin closures.
While I acknowledge Accendo having power of attorney wouldve allowed it to open or close 
trades on Mr Ls behalf, the evidence provided by B confirms that Accendo didnt close these 
positions. This being so, Im unable to conclude that Accendo is responsible for the losses 
he incurred. 
In summary, I recognise Mr L is unhappy with the closure of these positions, and that he will 
be disappointed that Ive reached the same conclusion as that reached by the investigator. 
But, looking at the evidence provided, Ive not found that Accendo is responsible for the 
closure of the positions on 24 March 2017. So, there are no grounds on which I can hold 
Accendo responsible for the losses Mr L incurred from the margin closures B actioned on his 
account.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman