DRN-3211166
The complaint
Mr Os complaint about Leeds Building Society (LBS) relates to delays with his mortgage 
application, the amount of documentation he was asked to provide because of this, and the 
increased costs he feels he has incurred.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr O received a mortgage illustration for a loan of £80,599 over a 16 years 
and 10-month term with a £999 product fee being payable and which was within the overall 
loan sum. This was for an initial five-year fixed rate at 1.65%, reverting thereafter to the 
standard variable rate (SVR).
On 16 February Mr Os full mortgage application was submitted but due to an LBS system 
error, the application didnt proceed. Although Mr Os broker raised the issue with LBS, LBS 
failed to log it and only did so when the broker submitted a new application.
Mr O asked if the documents in support of his original application could be transferred to his 
new application, and although LBS initially agreed, he was subsequently asked to upload 
them again.
Ultimately Mr O received a mortgage offer on a £79,000 loan although with a higher rate of 
interest at 2.05%. He has calculated that means he will pay about £1,543.20 extraover the 
five-year fixed rate interest period. Mr O is upset at this because of the additional stress he 
has been caused leading to sleepless nights and the uncertainty of not knowing whether he 
would be able to proceed with the purchase of his new home.
LBS upheld Mr Os complaint, in part, and offered him £300 by way of compensation for the 
delay and inconvenience he had been caused. They did not however believe they had 
caused him any financial loss. 
Mr O was unhappy with LBS final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that whilst there had been 
accepted failures in the level of service, the amount of compensation LBS offered was 
enough to put things right and there had been no direct financial loss. 
Mr O didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LBS has accepted that there was a failure in the level of service it provided to Mr O and 
recognised that there was an impact upon him due to their delay caused by their systems 
errors. 
What remains in issue is whether there has been any a financial loss to Mr O by virtue of him 
ultimately getting a different mortgage with a higher rate of interest. This necessarily involves 
looking at the two mortgages in question and I shall call the initial mortgage Mr O applied for 
the first mortgage, and the one he ultimately got, the second.
Both mortgages had a fixed rate of interest for the first five-year period, albeit one was at a 
higher rate than the other. After that period both mortgages would have dropped onto the 
same SVR. So, the only period I need to consider, to see whether there was a difference, is 
the five-year period.
As Mr O actually borrowed £79,000 I have taken that figure to compare the two mortgages 
over the term he ultimately agreed  16 years. Using a mortgage costs comparison tool this 
produces the following results. 
First mortgage 
Total Monthly Payment £468.44; Costs over five-year fixed rate period £29,105.34
Second Mortgage
Total Monthly Payment £482.97; Costs over five-year fixed rate period £29,978.08
On the face of it the second mortgage looks more expensive by £872.74, but in fact it isnt 
because there wasnt a £999 product fee to pay as there was with the first mortgage. So, 
when you add that back in the second mortgage works out cheaper than the first and there is 
no financial loss to Mr O.
Having determined that there is no financial loss to Mr O I return to consider what the 
appropriate redress might be. I do accept that problems and issues such as those 
experienced by Mr O very often do lead a customer to experience frustration, annoyance, 
and inconvenience. When we find this has occurred we think about what a business could 
do to put matters right, and awarding compensation is one way of doing that. But such 
awards need to be balanced and measured against the ups and downs of daily life we all 
face when dealing with other people, businesses, and organisations, and recognising that 
that can be inconvenient at times. 
The issue for me therefore is what is a reasonable amount of compensation. When we make 
awards of compensation we categorise them and examples of these can be found on our 
website. What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each 
case are different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the 
circumstances of the case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the 
effect upon the complainant of any particular service failures. The impact upon Mr O was in 
terms of delay, the inconvenience at having to upload his documents for a second time, and 
the stress caused by that delay. LBS accepted very quickly they had been at fault and 
offered redress appropriately. In my view £300 is a reasonable sum and I think provides fair 
and reasonable recompense.
My final decision
Leeds Building Society has already offered Mr O £300 to settle this complaint, and I think 
that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Jonathan WillisOmbudsman