DRN-4224045
The complaint
Mrs F complains that when her dog needed surgery and she made a claim on her policy, 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) said shed wrongly declared 
her dogs breed. So they amended her policy, increased her premium and made deductions 
from her claim, as they said shed been under-insured.  
Mrs F thinks this is unfair and she wants them to pay her claim in full.
What happened
Mrs F has insurance for her dog with C&G with an annual limit of £4,000 for veterinary 
treatment, subject to a £90 policy excess and a co-payment of 15% for all vet fees. In June 
2022 her dog ruptured her rear right cruciate ligament and required surgery. Mrs F submitted 
a claim to C&G in respect of the dogs treatment.
When assessing Mrs Fs claim C&G requested her dogs clinical records. When Mrs F took 
out her policy online she described her dog as a medium mongrel, but the vets records had 
recorded her breed as a whippet cross. 
C&G said that Mrs F had wrongly declared her dogs breed and amended this to whippet 
cross on her policy. This increased her annual premium from £538.92 to £829.80, or from 
£44.91 to £69.15 a month. And when they paid the claim they said Mrs F had been under 
insured by 40% so they deducted this amount from the payment she received.
Mrs F didnt accept that shed wrongly described her dogs breed when taking out her policy. 
Shes told us that her dog is a rescue, she has no idea of its breed, and her vets were only 
guessing when they described her as a whippet cross. 
Shes provided an email from her vet confirming that her dog is a female neutered cross 
breed. The vet says the dogs appearance indicates that its likely she has whippet, lurcher, 
greyhound or similar in her ancestry, but shes essentially a mongrel.
Mrs F has told us that when C&G first raised the issue about her dogs breed her husband 
called them as the online form she completed, when first taking out her policy, didnt give an 
option to describe her dog as a whippet cross. He asked them what a medium mongrel was 
and was told it was a dog of mixed breeds weighing up to 20kg, which Mrs F says accurately 
describes her dog.
During the call C&G accepted that there wasnt an option to describe the dog as a whippet 
cross, but they said she should have selected whippet as this was the dogs predominant 
breed.
Mrs F raised a complaint which C&G didnt uphold. They sent her a final response letter in 
December 2022. In the letter they said she had a duty to accurately describe her dogs 
breed. She hadnt done this as the vets records described the dog as a whippet cross, 
rather than a medium mongrel. 
They said they regarded this as a careless misrepresentation under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). So they were entitled to 
amend her policy to reflect the dogs correct breed. They were prepared to continue to cover 
her dog at a higher premium, but theyd backdate the increased premium to when her policy 
started. And as shed been under-insured, they said by 39.42%, theyd only pay 60.58% of 
her claim.
The vets bill for the surgery was £4761.42. Mrs Fs policy covered vets fees up to £4000, so 
the amount shed claimed was over her policy limit. And her policy excess and co-payment 
also needed to be deducted. But a week after sending the final response letter C&G wrote to 
Mrs F again giving her a different figure for the breed amendment deduction and the amount 
shed receive. So Mrs F had no idea how much C&G intended to pay in respect of her claim.
Mrs F then complained to our service. Our investigator asked C&G to provide details of the 
questions Mrs F would have been asked when taking out her policy online. They told us that 
shed have been asked if her dog was a crossbreed, and she should have answered no to 
this question. And she should then have said her dog was a whippet. 
Their rationale for saying this was to provide a short article on the origins of the breed. This 
says that details of the origins of the whippet are vague, but its believed that originally a 
greyhound, or Italian greyhound, may have been crossed with a small game terrier.
So they said Mrs F should have insured her dog as a whippet, as whippet is the dominant 
breed and the comparison website she used had an option for this. And they said if she had 
any concerns about the breed description she could have called them for advice.
Our investigator asked C&G to confirm the correct amount Mrs F should have received in 
settlement of her claim. They confirmed that the figures given in their final response letter 
werent correct. Theyd deducted her policy excess and co-payment from the £4000 policy 
limit and assessed her claim at £3323.50. Theyd then applied a breed amendment 
deduction of £1752.46. So the payment due to Mrs F in settlement of her claim was 
£1517.04.
C&G also provided a breakdown of the difference in premiums between a medium mongrel 
and a whippet cross for the years Mrs F had held her policy.
Our investigator considered the case and upheld Mrs Fs complaint. He said that despite the 
vets records saying her dog was whippet cross, he thought Mrs F had acted reasonably in 
describing her as a medium mongrel, as her parentage is unknown. He felt when taking out 
her policy Mrs F had answered the questions she was asked with reasonable care. 
Mrs Fs vet has confirmed that that dogs appearance suggested she has whippet, lurcher, 
greyhound or similar in her ancestry, but she is essentially a mongrel. So our investigator 
said it wasnt fair to say thered been a misrepresentation. 
And he said C&G should pay Mrs F the £1896.46 they deducted from her claim due to 
misrepresentation together with 8% simple interest. And as Mrs F had experienced 
significant distress and inconvenience C&G should also pay £150 compensation for this.
Mrs F accepted our investigators opinion, but C&G didnt. They say that a whippet is a 
recognised cross of other breeds, and while Mrs F isnt aware of the specific breeds included 
within her dogs parentage, she would still be classed as a whippet. This option was 
available to her when taking out her policy and she should have chosen it. So they maintain 
that there was a misrepresentation and they correctly applied a CIDRA deduction.The case has now come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C&G have said theres been a misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I need to consider what 
CIDRA says.
CIDRA section 2 (2) says 
It is the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to 
the insurer. 
Section 3(1) says 
Whether or not a consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation is 
to be determined in the light of all the relevant circumstances.
And section 4(1) says 
An insurer has a remedy against a consumer for a misrepresentation made by the 
consumer before a consumer insurance contract was entered into or varied only if  
(a) The consumer made the misrepresentation in breach of the duty set out in section 
2(2), and 
(b) The insurer shows that without the misrepresentation, that insurer would not have 
entered into the contract (or agreed to the variation) at all, or would have done so on 
different terms.
So did Mrs F take reasonable care when she took out her policy and described her dog as a 
medium mongrel. As if she did there was no misrepresentation and C&G have no remedy 
against her under CIDRA.
Shes told us, and I accept, that the dog was a rescue and she has no idea of her parentage. 
Her vets had described the dog on her clinical records as a Whippet cross. Mrs F doesnt 
appear to have been aware of this and the vets have now confirmed that although the dog, 
from her appearance, is likely to have whippet, lurcher or greyhound in her ancestry, shes 
essentially a mongrel.
It's not in dispute that when Mrs F took out her policy online there was no option to select 
whippet cross. C&G say that Mrs F should have declared her dog was a whippet, as this is 
her dominant breed. There are a number of issues with this argument. Firstly neither Mrs F, 
or C&G, know what breed her dog is. And secondly she wasnt asked What is your dogs 
dominant breed? 
She was asked if her dog was a crossbreed? To which she correctly answered Yes. But 
C&G say should she have answered no to this question, and then have selected whippet 
from the list of breed options. 
CIDRA requires a consumer to take reasonable care in answering questions when taking out 
an insurance policy. So I dont think Mrs F did anything wrong in saying her dog was a cross 
breed. And if C&G expected her to declare her dogs dominant breed, this is the question she should have been asked. But she wasnt. There was no option to say her dog was a 
whippet cross so she selected medium mongrel. Which I think was entirely reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
And Im not persuaded by what C&G have said about the origins of the whippet. Whats 
relevant here is the questions Mrs F was asked and the answers she gave. And based on 
these I dont accept that there was any misrepresentation so the remedies available to C&G 
under CIDRA dont apply in this case.
So I require C&G to pay Mrs F the amount they deducted from her claim due to the breed 
amendment they made to her policy. And to pay her interest on the sum deducted from the 
date her claim was first assessed until payment is made to her. To make this clear the only 
deductions C&G should make from Mrs Fs policy limit of £4,000 should be her £90 policy 
excess and the 15% co-payment.
Mrs F has told us that how C&G have dealt with her claim has had a financial impact on her 
and has caused her distress and inconvenience. I accept this and I require C&G to pay her 
£150 compensation for the impact this has had on her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mrs Fs complaint about Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
And to put things right I require them to: -
Pay her the sums deducted from her claim in respect of the breed amendment they made to 
her policy. Together with 8% simple interest from the date her claim was first assessed until 
payment is made.
Pay her £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of 
how her claim has been handled.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman