DRN-2646618
Complaint
Mr W has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided him with unaffordable loans. 
He says if reasonable checks had been carried out L2G would have seen he couldnt sustain 
the payments as he had financial problems.  
  
Background
L2G provided Mr W with three loans for amounts between £250 and £1,000 in March 2019, 
August 2019 and November 2019. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G shouldnt have 
provided these loans as proportionate checks would have shown they were unaffordable. 
L2G disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ws complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay his loans in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr W wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W would be 
able to repay his loans in a sustainable way?
L2G provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mr Ws ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr W. In practice this meant that 
L2G had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr W undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr W. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr W prior to 
providing him with all of his loans. It also carried out credit checks. L2Gs checks suggested   
Mr W had more than enough to cover the payments to these loans. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But Mr W took out three loans in eight months. 
So I think that L2G ought to have been concerned about why it was Mr W needed this many 
loans in such a short period of time. Equally L2Gs credit checks showed Mr W had accounts 
which had already defaulted as well as others which were also in distress and not being 
managed well. Bearing in mind these circumstances, I think its reasonable and 
proportionate to have expected L2G to have taken additional steps to verify the information it 
received. And I think that L2G needed to take additional steps to verify Mr Ws actual 
monthly expenditure. As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr W with these loans were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Mr W would have 
been unable to repay his loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before these loans were 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that proportionate checks would have told L2G that Mr W would have 
been unable to sustainably repay his loans.
L2G was required to establish whether Mr W could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, it is clear that Mr W was 
struggling to manage his finances. He was borrowing from a number of different creditors in 
order to repay existing debts. So I think that proportionate checks would have shown L2G 
that Mr W was likely to use these loans in the same way which meant he was unlikely to be 
able to repay them without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr W would not have been able to make the
repayments to these loans without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr W was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on these loans without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way.
Did Mr W lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing him with his loans?
As Mr W paid and is being expected to pay a high amount of interest and charges on loans 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Having thought about everything, L2G should put things right for Mr W by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges as a result of having been provided with 
his loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date 
they were paid by Mr W to the date of settlement
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file as a result of 
these loans. HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs 
to put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman