DRN-1442753
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked his debit card while he was 
abroad.
What happened
On 4 June 2019, at around 13:40 pm, Mr B attempted to use his debit card abroad but his 
payment was declined as it had been blocked by Nationwide. Mr B subsequently attempted 
to use his credit card at around 14:10pm. But Nationwide blocked that transaction too.  
Mr B wasnt happy he couldnt use his debit card. So, complained to Nationwide about what 
happened. Mr B had thought Nationwide would deal with his concerns about it blocking both 
his debit and credit card together. So, he was unhappy Nationwide didnt referenced what 
had happened with his debit card in its final response to his complaint about his credit card. 
He was also unhappy about the length of time it had taken Nationwide to respond to his 
complaint.
After Nationwide investigated Mr Bs concerns about his debit card, it said it had blocked his 
transaction for fraud prevention reasons. It explained its entitled to block a transaction in 
circumstances where it reasonably suspects fraudulent activity. It didnt think it had made an 
error in blocking his card. And it said it had attempted to contact Mr B to confirm the 
authenticity of his transaction but had been unable to reach him. So, it had left voicemails 
asking Mr B to contact it. Nationwide said, after Mr B contacted it at around 14:40 the same 
day, the restrictions on his account were lifted.
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint about blocking his debit card. But it apologised for 
not referring to what had happened with his debit card in correspondence relating to his 
complaint about his credit card. It accepted it hadnt correctly logged that he was 
complaining about both his debit and credit card being blocked. And it agreed it could have 
responded sooner to his complaint about his debit card. To reflect the fact that Mr B 
experienced poor service Nationwide credited his account with £75 compensation. 
Being dissatisfied with Nationwides response to his complaint, Mr B referred it to our 
service. But our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. They thought Nationwide had acted 
fairly and reasonably here and didnt think it had made an error in blocking Mr Bs card. But 
Mr B disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B experienced while abroad when Nationwide 
blocked his debit card. I understand that Nationwide also blocked his credit card, which he 
tried to use subsequent to using his debit card. However, issues regarding Mr Bs inability to 
use his credit card on 4 June have been considered already by our service. So, I wont be addressing those here. Instead Ill focus solely on whether Nationwides decision to block Mr 
Bs debit card was reasonable.
My role is to assess whether I think Nationwide made a mistake, or treated Mr B unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he 
and Nationwide have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially 
fraudulent transactions. Preventing fraud is as important for the bank as it is for its 
customers. To do so a bank may block card payments if it reasonably suspects they are 
fraudulent.
I can appreciated that when Nationwide blocked Mr Bs debit card it was an inconvenient 
and frustrating experience  especially given that this transaction was genuine. But, 
Nationwide told our service that fraudsters often mimic genuine behaviour, which means it 
sometimes declines genuine transactions. And it had no way of knowing whether this 
transaction was authentic until Mr B was able to confirm it was genuine.
Nationwide hasnt been able to tell Mr B why his payment attracted a fraud check. But thats 
unsurprising as thats commercially sensitive information. I appreciate Mr B may feel this is 
unfair. However, Nationwide is under no obligation to tell Mr B its reasons, as much as he 
may want to know. Our service cant tell it to share this information with him and I dont think 
itd be fair for me to ask Nationwide to elaborate any further. 
What I can tell Mr B though is that, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Nationwide 
had reason to suspect Mr Bs transaction wasnt authentic. In blocking his debit card, 
Nationwide acted in line with the terms and conditions of his account, which clearly outline 
that it can refuse to make a payment in the interests of account security and where it 
believes it is necessary to do so. Mr B accepted these terms when he opened the account. 
So it is fair and reasonable it now relies on these terms and conditions given each agreed to 
contract on this basis. 
I cant reasonably criticise Nationwide for being vigilant to fraud or having processes in place 
to check the authenticity of debit card transactions. In this case, this was just as much for Mr 
Bs protection as it was for Nationwides. In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied the block was applied appropriately and in good faith. It follows that I cant fairly 
conclude that Nationwide made an error here.
Mr B said it blocked his debit card more than once. But Ive seen Nationwides records, 
which show all blocks that were placed on Mr Bs debit card during 2019. Theres no 
evidence to show Nationwide blocked his debit card on more than one occasion. And Mr B 
hasnt provided this service with any evidence to contradict that. So, Im not persuaded there 
was a second block applied to Mr Bs debit card.
Ive thought about whether the time it took Nationwide to notify Mr B it had blocked his card 
was fair and reasonable. As I explained in the background to this complaint, the block was 
applied at around 13:40 pm on 4 June 2019. And I can see Nationwide tried to contact Mr B 
very quickly after that time to query whether his transaction was authentic in line with its 
procedure. But it wasnt able to reach him  so it left voicemails asking him to return its call. I 
can see Mr B contacted Nationwide at around 14:40 pm on 4 June 2019. As a result of this 
discussion Nationwide lifted the restrictions on Mr Bs debit card. So, the block was in place 
for around one hour. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded Nationwide removed the block at its earliest 
opportunity. I appreciate Mr B may have wanted the block removing sooner. But, I dont think Nationwides response time here was unreasonable. As I mentioned previously it couldnt 
remove the block until it had spoken to Mr B. And, while it had made efforts to contact him 
before 14:40 pm, it had been unable to reach him, which wasnt its fault. 
I understand Mr B raised concerns that Nationwide may block future card payments due to 
fraud. But, while I can appreciate his worries here, Nationwides duty to be vigilant against 
fraud and safeguard its customers accounts means it cant offer a guarantee that this wont 
happen again should circumstances require it. This isnt unreasonable. 
Finally, Mr B complains about his experience of how Nationwide dealt with his complaint and 
the compensation it offered him for shortfalls in the service he received. Strictly speaking, we 
dont have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with complaint handling  as 
its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our service. So, even if I did 
think Nationwide hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to uphold that 
element of his concerns or make an award  I cant act outside the law. This means I cant 
review Mr Bs experience here or the compensation he was paid.
I understand Mr B feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and I realise 
he will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve 
his dispute with Nationwide informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr B any 
further with this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman