DRN-2946565
Complaint
Miss B has complained that Hermes Property Services Limited (HPS) provided her with an 
unaffordable logbook loan. 
Shes said that she was struggling at the time and the information gathered ought to have 
alerted HPS to the fact that she wouldnt be able to make the monthly payments to this loan.
Background
HPS provided Miss B with a logbook loan for £1,055 in August 2013. This loan had an APR 
of 397.8%, which meant that the total amount of £3,739.32, was due to be repaid in 104 
weekly instalments of £36.66. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that proportionate checks 
would have shown this loan to be unaffordable for Miss B and so upheld the complaint. HPS 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Bs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Bs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did HPS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss B wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did HPS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did HPS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B would be 
able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
HPS provided this loan to Miss B while it held a consumer credit licence from the Office of 
Fair Trading. The rules and regulations in place at this time required HPS to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss Bs ability to make the repayments under 
this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so HPS had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss B. In practice this meant that 
HPS had to check to ensure that Miss B could make the payments to the loan without 
difficulty or borrowing further.
In other words, it wasnt enough for HPS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss B and it wasnt 
enough for HPS to simply lend because the loan was secured on Miss Bs vehicle. In fact as 
there was the possibility of Miss B losing her vehicle, I think it is reasonable to expect a 
proportionate check to have reflected this. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were HPSs checks reasonable and proportionate?
HPS carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Miss B prior to providing her 
with this loan. HPS checks suggested Miss Bs income was around £1,300.00 a month and 
her expenditure around £690 based what it saw on her credit file. In HPS view this left     
Miss B with over £600 in disposable income which was more than enough to cover the 
payments to this loan. HPS also obtained two months worth of bank statements from     
Miss B. 
Ive carefully considered what HPS has said. But its worth noting that there was information 
in the bank statements which seriously called into question the conclusions reached in the income and expenditure assessments. Firstly, Miss B was overdrawn, and paid a significant 
amount in unarranged overdraft fees, which didnt really tally with someone who had very 
little in the way of expenditure and a monthly disposable income of £600. 
Secondly, there were significant amounts of funds which were going out of the account 
which were marked as savings. The amount that went out in the previous month exceeded 
the amount Miss B was looking to borrow. And it called into question why Miss B needed to 
borrow, on such disadvantageous terms if she genuinely had savings of this amount and 
monthly disposable income which would have provided in excess of what was being 
advanced in a couple of months. 
Finally, there was a significantly amount of gambling on the statement obtained. HPS agent 
wrote that this was a fraud payment and referred to a refund from the gambling company as 
evidence of this. Yet the refund, which I suspect were winnings rather than a fraud payment, 
came from the gambling company concerned rather than the bank. 
So, I think its fair to say that the contents of the bank statements provided clearly called into 
question whether Miss B had a monthly disposable income of more than £600. And I would 
have expected HPS to have found out more about these apparent discrepancies before 
agreeing to lend. As I cant see that this HPS did do this and instead chose to rely on what 
appears to have been overly optimistic income and expenditure assessment, I dont think 
that the checks it carried out before providing Miss B with her loan were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to HPS that Miss B would have 
been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told HPS that Miss B would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
HPS was required to establish whether Miss B could make her loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, it is clear Miss Bs 
income was being used to meet commitments to existing short-term creditors. I can see a 
number of such loans taken out and repaid in the lead up to this loan. Its also apparent that 
Miss B was regularly incurring unarranged overdraft fees due to her gambling too. So I think 
she was always unlikely to be able to make the payments she was being asked to commit to 
without borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss B would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted HPS to the fact that Miss B was in no sort of position to be able to make the 
payments on this loan in a sustainable manner.
Did HPS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that HPS acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other way. So I 
dont think HPS acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other way.Did Miss B lose out as a result of HPS unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Miss B paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that she shouldnt have 
been provided with, Im satisfied that she lost out as a result of what HPS did wrong.
So I think that HPS needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what HPS needs to do to put things right for Miss B
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Bs complaint for HPS to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss B paid as a result of being provided with 
this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Miss B to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HPS to take off tax from this interest. HPS must give    
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. Hermes Property Services 
Limited needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman