DRN-2151094
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Miss M says 
Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Miss M took out a credit card in 2004 by post. She bought the PPI a few days later when she 
phoned Capital One to activate her credit card.
Our adjudicators view was that Capital One hadnt mis-sold the PPI to Miss M. But she felt 
that it ought to have upheld Miss Ms complaint in respect of some of the commission it got 
on the sale.
Capital One has now agreed to make a refund to Miss M in respect of the high amount of 
commission it got on the PPI sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
As it was so long ago, Capital One hasnt been able to supply us with a recording of the 
activation call when the PPI was sold. So I cant be sure of what was said. But, on 
balance, I think Capital One made it clear that Miss M didnt have to take the PPI and 
that she chose to take it out. I say this because of what we know generally about the 
telephone script Capital Ones representatives were instructed to use on card activation 
calls at the time. I find that this would have made it clear that Miss M had a choice 
whether to take the PPI or not. And I havent seen anything on which to conclude that the 
representative didnt follow this process in this case. Because of the time that has 
passed I can understand why Miss M does not remember the detail of what happened.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have to make sure Miss M got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So 
I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Miss M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Putting things right
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
Capital One has to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should also pay back to Miss M any extra interest 
she paid because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Miss M the difference 
between what Miss M owed and what she would have owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Miss M 
8%* simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss M can claim back the tax if she doesnt] pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is that the PPI policy was not mis-sold. But Capital 
One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium in accordance with the calculation set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman