DRN-2569800
Complaint
Mr M has complained about two loans Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says
L2G irresponsibly lent him these loans.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and L2G had told us. And she thought that L2G
hadnt lent irresponsibly. So she didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M disagreed and asked 
for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M could
afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think about
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Mr M with an initial loan of £400 in December 2019. It had an APR of 
1,013.1% and was to due be repaid in 18 instalments of £91.42, which meant the total 
amount to be repaid was £1,645.56. Mr M repaid the loan a month later. He then applied for 
a second loan of £500 at the end of January 2020. This loan had an APR of 1,035.5% and 
was due to be repaid in 18 instalments of £114.28, which meant that the total amount to be 
repaid was £2,057.04. 
L2G says it agreed to Mr Ms applications after he provided details of his monthly income 
and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on credit searches it 
carried out on Mr M. The information Mr M provided about his income and expenditure 
showed hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. But it, in 
any event, it adjusted Mr Ms declarations to account for what its verification checks showed 
and this left enough for Mr M to be able to make his payments. L2G says, in these 
circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Mr M has said he was in 
financial difficulty and shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that these were Mr Ms first loans with L2G. The information provided does suggest Mr M 
was asked to provide details of his income and expenditure and L2G didnt just rely on what 
it was told. The amount of the repayments, the credit search not showing anything too 
alarming, Mr Ms early repayment of loan 1 together with his lack of any previous lending 
with L2G; and the low monthly repayments all lead me to think it was unreasonable for L2G 
to rely on the payments being affordable as, on the face of things, they did appear to be. 
For the sake of completeness, Id also add that as Mr M wasnt provided with a payday loan 
and he didnt have to make the payment he did for loan 1 in January 2020, I cant reasonably 
say he was obviously in an established pattern of borrowing because he couldnt keep up 
with his L2G commitments. I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances may not be reflected in 
the information gathered. 
Ive also seen what hes said about the use of his overdraft. But   Mr M was transferring 
money from his account to another one. And when these funds are taken with his monthly 
salary, I dont think it can be reasonably concluded that Mr Ms overdraft usage in itself 
demonstrated there was no reasonable prospect of him making his payments without 
borrowing further. Its possible a reason why Mr M might not have been able to repay might 
have become apparent had he provided statements for the other account. But hes said hes 
unable to provide those statements and wants a final decision on the basis of what hes 
provided already. As this is the case, Im unable to say with any degree of confidence what 
further checks are more likely than not to have shown, or that they would have shown L2G 
shouldnt have provided loan 2.
Id also add that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a 
lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in 
deciding to lend to Mr M - it carried out reasonable checks even though the information it 
was provided with may not have told the whole story. L2G reasonably relied on this 
information and given the amount of the repayments involved and its lack of previous history 
with Mr M, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to provide these loans.
Ive also thought about what Mr M has said about the terms of these loans. The amount he is 
being expected to repay on loan 2 (loan 1 would have required a similar proportion of 
interest but Mr M settled it after a month) can only be described by any reasonable observer 
as eye-watering. I appreciate making payments may be difficult and sympathise with Mr M. 
But the credit agreement makes no attempt to disguise and arguably brazenly sets out just 
how egregious these terms are. And as Mr M accepted these terms, the payments appeared 
affordable and there isnt anything on file, at least, to demonstrate L2G actively took 
advantage of Mr Ms position (the credit search, or anything else didnt set that Mr M was in 
financial difficulty), overall I find that L2G didnt unfairly provide this loan, or Mr Ms first one, 
given all the circumstances.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, I would remind L2G of its obligation to exercise
forbearance should Mr M be experiencing difficulty and it choose to collect payments from 
him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman