DRN-1845510
 
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) blocked his current account during 
the 60 days notice to close period. He would like compensation for the inconvenience 
caused as amongst other things, he wasnt able to pay his Direct Debits or receive his 
wages into the account.  
What happened
On 3 September 2019 Halifax sent Mr I a text and letter explaining that all of his accounts 
would be closed in 60 days time  this included his current account, Everyday Saver and 
Clarity credit card. The letter went onto explain that his accounts had been blocked in the 
meantime, so he would need to make arrangements for any existing debits or credits, as 
these wouldnt be allowed. 
Mr I has explained that he feels discriminated against as although he understands Halifax 
can close his account, it should give him notice. He pointed out the fact that although it gave 
him 60 days notice of the closure, it restricted his account at the same time so he couldnt 
use it. Therefore, it was like having no notice at all. 
Mr I says the restriction during the 60 days notice period caused him a great deal of worry, 
stress and sleepless nights. Hes explained that he was at a petrol station on 3 September 
2019 and his debit card transaction was declined. He says he was lucky on that occasion as 
he had cash on him. However, the restriction also meant that his wages couldnt be paid into 
his account and he had to take time off work and college so he could amend all of his Direct 
Debits. He says the restriction left him without access to money and left him in an extremely 
bad financial situation. 
Mr I was also worried that he was unable to open an account elsewhere at the time and 
believed hed been blacklisted. He has since been able to open an account though. 
Halifax questioned Mr I around why he had opened multiple Everyday Saver accounts. 
However, Mr I said this wasnt him and it caused him to be concerned about the security of 
his personal information. Halifax said it hadnt made an error in closing his account or 
restricting access to it during the notice period. It said it followed the correct procedure and 
therefore wouldnt be compensating Mr I for the inconvenience caused to him. 
Mr I brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
explained that Halifax was entitled to restrict and close Mr Is account. She explained that 
Halifax could also have done this immediately, rather than giving the 60 days notice to close 
and pointed out this may have been the less confusing way of doing things. But either way, 
she was satisfied Halifax was entitled to do what it did, so wouldnt be responsible for 
compensating Mr I for the trouble and upset he was caused. She explained that she couldnt 
comment on why other financial institutions had refused him a bank account. Mr I disagreed with the investigator. He referred to the Payment Accounts Regulations 2015 
which talk about criteria that must be met in order for a bank to close a basic bank account. 
He doesnt think Halifax met these criteria when closing his accounts. He remained unhappy 
that Halifax effectively gave him no notice of the account closure due to the restriction placed 
and emphasised the impact this had on him at the time. Finally, Mr I also said that had 
Halifax not closed his account, he wouldnt have had hard searches on his credit file so his 
credit rating wouldnt have suffered.  
Because Mr I disagreed with the investigator, the complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions 
as the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
Account closure
I note the fact the account was closed isnt Mr Is main concern and he has accepted that 
Halifax can do this. However, for completeness Ive reviewed this. 
Having done so, Im satisfied Halifax was entitled to close Mr Is account and did so in in line 
with the account terms and relevant regulations. Halifax has the discretion to offer accounts 
to who it wishes, just as Mr I can choose who to bank with. So, I cant say Halifax have 
treated him unfairly here. 
Mr I referred to the Payment Accounts Regulations 2015 in his response to our investigators 
findings on his complaint. The guidance he pointed to is around basic bank accounts  these 
are generally accounts with no overdrafts, that usually only have very limited facilities. Mr Is 
account wasnt a basic bank account, so the criteria mentioned wouldnt be relevant to his 
account closure. Instead, as Ive mentioned above, Halifax can close his account in line with 
the terms and conditions. 
Mr Is main concern is that despite giving him 60 days notice to close, it restricted his 
account at the same time, effectively making the notice period irrelevant. Ill now address 
this. 
60 days notice to close and account restriction
Halifax gave Mr I 60 days notice that his accounts would be being closed and during this 
time it restricted the use of the account. This meant Mr I couldnt make payments to or from 
it.
Having reviewed Halifaxs reasons for restricting the accounts, Im satisfied its actions were 
reasonable. Halifax has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when 
providing account services to its customers. To comply with these obligations, it may need to 
review accounts and the activity taking place on them. And part of this might require it to 
restrict a customers access to an account where appropriate. If Halifax didnt do this, it could 
risk serious sanction.
Halifaxs actions in restricting the account effectively had the same impact as closing it 
immediately. The investigator concluded that Halifax couldve closed Mr Is account immediately and I agree with this. I understand Mr I doesnt agree, but from the information 
Ive seen, this wouldve been reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. Had the account been closed immediately, the outcome here wouldve been the 
same in that Mr I wouldve needed to obtain a bank account elsewhere and ensure his 
established payments were rerouted or paid in a different way. This wouldve resulted in the 
same inconvenience to Mr I, but may have been a more streamlined option.
However, I think that regardless of the 60 days notice to close period given by Halifax, it 
made it clear that Mr Is account was restricted, and he would therefore need to make 
arrangements for any of his regular credits and debits to be moved elsewhere. The notice 
letter clearly stated as much and gave Mr I the opportunity to contact his Direct Debit 
providers and his employer in order to mitigate any issues. I understand Mr I has said this 
wasnt an easy task and I can certainly appreciate that. But, as Ive explained above, it 
doesnt mean Halifax was incorrect in the actions it took.  
Whether Halifax had chosen to close the account immediately or restrict the account and 
close after 60 days, unfortunately Mr I wouldve always been in the same position and 
suffered the trouble and upset he did. And while I understand Mr Is feelings around Halifaxs 
actions and the significant degree of trouble and upset caused, Im satisfied Halifax was 
entitled to restrict and close his accounts. It follows that it therefore doesnt have to 
compensate him for the trouble and upset he suffered. 
Account opening 
Mr I raised the fact he couldnt seem to get an account elsewhere at the time. I havent seen 
anything to suggest this had anything to do with Halifax closing his accounts and I cant 
comment on the actions of the financial institutions who declined his applications. Mr I has 
since been able to open an account elsewhere which doesnt suggest an ongoing issue.  
I understand he holds Halifax responsible for the impact of the searches on his credit file  
these searches having been done by the financial institutions Mr I applied for a bank account 
with. However, Ive already explained that Halifax was entitled to close Mr Is account, so it 
follows that it isnt responsible for the searches performed on him when he was applying for 
a new account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Is complaint against Bank of Scotland  (trading as 
Halifax).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman