DRN-2575026
The complaint
Mr E complains that he was incorrectly told he could make as many withdrawals as he 
needed from a Premier Flexible Two-year Bond sold to him by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
In 2020 Mr E inherited a large sum of money. He spoke with Barclays in June 2020 and as a 
result took out two products  a cash ISA into which he placed £20,000 and the Bond, in 
which he placed £100,000. 
Shortly after, he approached Barclays to make a withdrawal from the bond. This was allowed 
under the terms  he could make up to three withdrawals of a maximum of 10% of the initial 
payment, so three withdrawals of £10,000. 
However, when Mr E was told this he was unhappy as he said hed been told during the 
phone call when he set up the two products that he could take as much as he needed from 
the bond, but subject to a loss of interest. 
He complained to Barclays. It explained that it didnt have a recording of the phone call but 
as it was a non-advised sale and information had been sent to Mr E explaining the terms of 
the bond, Barclays didnt feel that it had done anything wrong. 
Mr E referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion 
as Barclays. He said, in brief:
Barclays had confirmed that there was no recording of the call available, as it had 
been transitioning to new home-working arrangements at the time. 
Although Mr E had disputed receiving confirmation information for the products, 
Barclays had been able to provide evidence to show that it had been sent.
The information was clear on how the bond operated and the withdrawal limitations. 
It was a non-advised sale, meaning that Barclays responsibility was limited to 
providing information and it had been for Mr E to decide whether the product was 
suitable for his needs.
He didnt feel the bond had been mis-sold and felt that Barclays had applied the 
terms correctly.
 Mr E didnt accept the investigators view. He said, in brief:
The phone call was key. He was definitely told he could withdraw more than 10% and 
wouldnt have gone ahead otherwise.
He assumed the information given to him on the phone was correct and wasnt aware 
that advice was not being given to him. 
Why would he accept restrictions on access to his money and then arrange for work 
to be done on his property? He mustve been unaware of the restrictions. 
Who realistically reads all the paperwork theyre provided with?
The call shouldve been recorded. As it wasnt, the only evidence is now lost. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view. He explained that Barclays had said 
that if Mr E had an emergency and needed access to the funds in the Bond, it would review 
his request. 
Mr E still didnt accept the investigators conclusion, so the matter was referred to me to 
review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I recognise Mr E will be very disappointed, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Its unfortunate that Barclays has been unable to provide a recording of the phone call during 
which Mr E was told about the ISA and the bond. But it has provided a reasonable and 
plausible explanation for this  that it took place during a period when arrangements were 
being made for a new system to be put in place in light of home-working.
In the absence of the call recording, where theres a dispute about what happened, I have to 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more 
likely than not to have happened in light of what evidence is available and the wider 
circumstances.
Ive noted Mr Es recollections about what he was told during the call. But as I cant listen to 
it, I have to balance these against the other evidence  including the fact that Barclays has 
demonstrated that it sent Mr E information that showed under the specific product terms 
how the withdrawals would work. 
Mr E has said that during the call he asked if he would be able to take more or indeed the 
whole amount in an emergency and was told that would certainly be possible. Barclays has 
confirmed that it will in fact consider this if Mr E has an emergency, which I think is 
reasonable and tallies with what he says he was told on the call. 
It may be that discussion about accessing the money got confused between the ISA, from 
which withdrawals could be made subject to a loss of interest, and the bond. Or that Mr E 
took the comments about emergency access to mean that he was effectively free to take as 
many withdrawals as might be needed. Without the call to listen to, Im unable confirm 
exactly what happened and was discussed. 
So, in all the circumstances, I dont think, on balance, I can reasonably conclude from the 
evidence available that Barclays acted incorrectly. Even if there was confusion created 
during the call, Im satisfied that Barclays provided correct information after the call as a 
means by which Mr E could double-check that what he was agreeing to met with his needs. 
I appreciate what Mr E says about simply wanting to access money that is his  not wanting 
more than that or compensation. But as I dont feel that Barclays acted incorrectly, Ive no 
basis on which to direct it to effectively change the terms of the agreement.
And further, I think the fact that Barclays has confirmed that it will give consideration to 
emergency access to the remaining money  Mr E having now taken his three withdrawals 
means that it has acted fairly and reasonably. My final decision 
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman