DRN-3039269
The complaint
Mr P complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
turned down an accidental damage claim made under his commercial insurance policy.
Mr P is represented in this complaint by Mr A.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The accidental damage section of cover in the policy excludes faulty or defective 
design.  
Mr A accepts that the contractor was responsible for the failure of the wall, but he 
says the contractor didnt produce a design. Mr A thinks design cant be imaginary, 
and says that designs are normally provided as drawings.
The contractor chose to build the wall in a specific way  Im satisfied that would be 
considered the design of the wall, whether that design was written down beforehand 
or not. The engineers report makes it clear that the contractor was negligent in their 
conception and delivery of the wall. Im therefore satisfied that there was a defective 
design of the wall structure, and that this would therefore fall under the exclusion.
Whilst I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr P, I think NFU turned down the 
claim in line with the policy terms. I dont need to consider NFUs other reasons for 
turning down the claim, as Im satisfied that the above exclusion would apply. 
I see that NFU accepted there were some delays when reviewing aspects of the 
claim and complaint, and paid Mr P £250 compensation for that. I dont think NFU 
caused any significant delays in its handling of the matter, and so I find the £250 
compensation to be reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman
