DRN-4215125
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited failed to action his 
request to make alterations to his pension contributions in a timely manner. Mr C also states 
that Royal London failed to remove his previous adviser as servicing agent when asked and 
took payments from his bank account when they shouldnt. 
Mr C would now like Royal London to refund the bank charges and adviser fees along with 
the losses he says hes suffered because of their inaction.
What happened
In April 2017, Mr C took out a new Royal London pension to accept the contributions from 
his limited company. Later that year, he switched from working under that limited company 
arrangement to a sole trader. On 17 November 2017, he emailed Royal London explaining 
to them his limited company had ceased trading on 7 November 2017. He also explained the 
companys most recent contribution to the pension needed altering to reflect that it had been 
made by himself and not the limited company. He also asked for future payments to the plan 
to be treated as having been made on a personal basis rather than as company 
contributions.
Mr C says he wrote to Royal London asking them to remove the financial adviser from his 
plan and stop paying that firm a servicing fee shortly thereafter.
In 2021, Mr C discovered that Royal London hadnt made the alterations to his plan that hed 
asked for in November 2017. So, in April 2021, he decided to formally complain to Royal 
London. In summary, he said that he was unhappy theyd not made the changes hed 
requested three and half years earlier. He felt hed lost out financially as a consequence of 
their inaction. 
After reviewing Mr Cs concerns, Royal London initially rejected his complaint as they 
explained theyd seen no evidence hed wished to make the alterations he said. However, 
after providing a copy of the email hed sent to them at the time, Royal London conceded 
shortly thereafter that theyd made a mistake and agreed to try and remedy things for him. 
In trying to put things right for Mr C, Royal London explained theyd need to set up a new 
policy to rectify the business premiums that had been taken in error and apply them as 
personal payments to the new plan. Mr C explained to Royal London that he wanted to 
contribute £80 per month from 17 November 2017, which was then to be increased to £500 
per month from 11 September 2019.
In September 2021, Royal London explained to Mr C theyd taken additional premiums from 
his account in error. As well as agreeing to refund those premiums (which amounted to 
£3,000), they also explained theyd be happy to refund any bank charges if he were to send 
in evidence of the fees hed suffered because of their error. In May 2022, Royal London also 
offered Mr C £500 for the trouble and upset theyd caused him. 
Unhappy with the service hed received from Royal London, Mr C decided to switch his 
pension to a new provider. On 27 June 2022, Royal London transferred the monies from his 
plan to his new pension elsewhere.
Mr C was unhappy with Royal Londons response so in August 2022, he referred his 
complaint to this service. In summary, he repeated the concerns that he made to Royal 
London. That was, he was unhappy theyd not actioned his request to alter his monthly 
pension premiums from a limited company basis to personal payments when asked and hed 
suffered bank charges as a consequence of them trying to put things right. Mr C went on to 
say he was also unhappy about the length of time it had taken Royal London to resolve 
things and was upset theyd continued to pay his previous adviser a fee from his pension 
despite him asking them not to.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that Royal 
London had treated Mr C fairly and the £500 theyd offered him appeared reasonable for the 
trouble hed suffered.
However, Mr C disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he said he didnt feel 
the Investigator had got to core of his concerns. He said that his primary issue was around 
how Royal London had handled the alteration of his company payments to personal 
premiums, not the subsequent timeliness of the switch to a new provider. He also didnt feel 
his concern around the bank charges had been sufficiently addressed.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe Mr C had 
presented any new arguments hed not already considered or responded to.
Mr C then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that 
outcome.
After carefully considering Mr Cs concerns, I issued a provisional decision explaining that I 
was planning to uphold his complaint in part. For completeness, Ive set out the findings I 
made in full below.
My provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr C has done and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the key issues here:
Amending company pension payments to personal premiums
Whats at the heart of this complaint is Royal London failing to follow a consumer request 
and the knock-on effect from that. Mr C had wound up his limited company and as such, 
wanted his monthly pension payments amending to ensure they were properly reflected as a 
personal as opposed to a company payment. That would ensure hed receive tax relief on 
the premiums. Mr C sent Royal London an email in November 2017 but the request was 
never processed. Royal London have subsequently established they did receive Mr Cs 
request and agreed to try and put things right for him. I asked Royal London what steps theyd taken to correct the mistake and also how they satisfied themselves that Mr C was not 
financially disadvantaged by the error.
Royal London explained Mr Cs policy has now been remedied. In reaching that point, they 
explained they had to set up a new plan for him. They then re-applied the previous 
premiums at their respective investment dates to ensure the new plan was in the same 
position that had been originally intended. They also explained that was completed on 18 
May 2022 and subsequent premiums were then collected and applied on their intended 
investment dates subsequent to that. 
I asked Royal London how theyd accounted for the difference in tax relief. Thats because a 
company contribution is paid gross of tax and a personal payment is made net of tax. Basic 
rate relief is then collected from HMRC by Royal London on behalf of the consumer and 
added to the plan, usually in the following month. Royal London went on to explain in 
correcting the case, theyd applied the payments as gross contributions and made a 
separate declaration to HMRC to remedy the position. Whilst Ive not checked Royal 
Londons calculations, they have shared evidence of the rework theyve undertaken and 
from what Ive seen, Im satisfied theyve put things right for Mr C.
From raising the complaint with Royal London in April 2021, it took them over a year to put 
things right. Royal London have admitted they got things wrong, have said sorry and in doing 
so they offered Mr C £500. I can well understand Mr Cs frustration in having to wait as long 
as he did. He said the numerous telephone calls he had to make and follow-up emails 
impacted his mental health. 
Ive thought carefully about the £500 Royal London have offered Mr C and the impact this 
element of his complaint has had on him. Whilst we look at every complaint on its individual 
merits, I do have to be consistent when making awards for the trouble and upset businesses 
have caused when things go wrong. However, it isnt the role of this service to punish 
businesses when mistakes happen, thats the responsibility of the regulator. Our role is to 
help put consumers back in the position they wouldve been in had the mistake not occurred. 
So, it seems that Royal London have done just that by amending the premiums in the 
manner they have done. And, Im of the view the £500 offered is fair and reasonable for the 
trouble Royal London have caused Mr C by not actioning his request to alter his premiums 
and the inconvenience they caused when debiting too much from his bank account.
Refund of bank charges
When Royal London tried to put things right for Mr C, they incorrectly debited £3,000 from 
his bank account in direct debits. Mr C explained this resulted in his account suffering 
charges totalling £128 on 1 September 2021. Royal London have said they told Mr C on 8 
September 2021 theyd be happy to reimburse those charges if he submitted a statement to 
them evidencing the costs hed incurred. In his correspondence with Mr C, our Investigator 
also explained that hed be happy to ask Royal London to reimburse any charges hed 
suffered because of the direct debit error but he would need to see evidence from Mr C 
beforehand. However, Mr C explained that hed sent his bank statements in as part of his 
original complaint to this service in August 2022. 
After reviewing the complaint file, I can find no record of those bank statements having been 
previously provided. Subsequently, Mr C submitted copies of his bank statements to the 
Investigator on 31 March 2023. In their correspondence with this service on 12 April 2023, 
Royal London stated at that point, Mr C had not provided them with the evidence of the bank 
charges hed suffered. On 17 May 2023, Royal London confirmed to me they were happy to 
cover the bank costs Mr C has incurred as a result of the direct debit error. Royal London 
have now been provided with evidence of those costs for their records.Had they not already offered to do so, I would have instructed Royal London to reimburse Mr 
C the £128 in bank charges.
Other costs linked to the direct debit error
In his complaint to this service, Mr C explained that because of the actions of Royal London, 
his bank account had become overdrawn. However, Mr C stated that hed not just suffered 
bank costs, he explained that he also had to delay paying his staff wages as Royal London 
took three days to refund the direct debits theyd taken in error. Ive listened to the recorded 
call Mr C had with Royal London when they were attempting to resolve the direct debit issue. 
He explained to them twice during that discussion hed been unable to pay his staff wages 
on time. So, it appears Royal Londons error not only impacted Mr C but others too and they 
failed to identify that in their interactions with him.
In shaping my decision, I asked Mr C if he was aware if there had been any wider financial 
consequences of that issue. Mr C said the error resulted in him having to pay his 
Administrator £100 for the inconvenience this caused them in receiving their wages late.
Ordinarily, I would instruct Royal London to refund Mr C the £100 but for me to make an 
award, I need to be satisfied the cost has been incurred. To be clear, thats not to doubt Mr 
Cs version of events, its to ensure fairness to both parties. Ive asked Mr C on several 
occasions for evidence that he paid the £100 but Ive not received a response to that 
request. Therefore, I am not making an award in respect of that cost Mr C says hes 
incurred.
Refund of adviser fees
As part of his complaint to this service, Mr C explained hes unhappy that Royal London 
failed to follow his instruction in removing his financial adviser from the plan. That meant the 
financial adviser continued to receive fee payments from Mr Cs pension after the 
relationship had ended.
When a consumer complains to this service, I can usually only consider complaint points that 
have already been raised by them to the business. Thats to ensure fairness to both sides 
and importantly, gives the business the opportunity to respond to the concerns raised. 
However, Royal London have explained that in Mr Cs original complaint to themselves in 
2021, he didnt raise the issue of adviser charges. 
Ordinarily, I would have to send the complaint back to Royal London and ask them to 
investigate Mr Cs point. However, I am satisfied that based on what Ive seen, I am able to 
form a decision on this issue. Im doing this because, having liaised in with Royal London on 
this point, Im content I have enough insight to reach an outcome I believe is fair and 
reasonable. Im also minded that this approach is in everyones interest given this service is 
here to help resolve complaints as quickly and informally as possible.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr C stated he asked Royal London to remove the 
Financial Adviser from his plan on 17 November 2017. In failing to take his former adviser off 
the policy, Mr C believes hes paid £246.11 in unnecessary charges to them. However, in the 
letter he shared with this service, it appears he requested that alteration be made on 9 
September 2019 rather than in November 2017. Having reviewed their systems, Royal 
London have stated they have no record of either that letter or a request from his financial 
adviser at the time. Royal London say they were only advised by Mr C of his wishes on 15 
July 2020 in a telephone call he made to them. Royal London explained they made the 
change a month after they received his July 2020 request. They went on to explain they re-credited £6.37 to Mr Cs plan and they dont believe hes suffered a financial detriment as a 
consequence.
However, I dont agree with Royal Londons observations on this issue. In the email Mr C 
sent to Royal London on 9 September 2019, it included two attachments. The first letter 
asked them to increase his premium from £100 to £500 per month. The second attachment 
asked them to remove his adviser from the plan. Royal London say they didnt receive that 
message but I think its more likely than not that they did. I say that because on the file 
theres a copy of the premium increase letter having been date stamped (on 11 September 
2019 at their Wilmslow office) with comments attached to it. So, I think it improbable they 
received one and not the other, especially when the adviser removal request letter was 
attached to the same email.
Whilst Ive not seen any evidence Mr C asked for the adviser to be removed in 2017, I am 
satisfied he asked for the removal in September 2019. As such, I am upholding this part of 
his complaint and require Royal London to refund the adviser fees he paid from September 
2019 onwards.
Performance
In a later submission to this service, Mr C explained that he believes hes lost around £4,000 
because of the performance of the funds he invested in with Royal London. I explained to Mr 
C that as hed not originally raised a complaint point about performance, hed first need to 
discuss this with Royal London to provide them with the opportunity to respond.
I also explained to Mr C that whilst I can consider complaints about investment performance, 
in most instances, I would need to see evidence that Royal London had done something 
wrong and cant just rely on actual or perceived poor performance. Thats because even if 
the fund has underperformed compared to the rest of the market, we dont usually think this 
proves the fund was mismanaged.
So, whilst I was willing to consider Mr Cs additional complaint point about adviser charges 
because I had all the key information readily to hand in the file, I wont be giving a decision 
on his supplemental point about performance. Thats because Mr C would need to provide 
new submissions and evidence to Royal London first.
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision, Royal London replied explaining they accepted the 
full outcome with the exception of one issue; the complaint point about Mr Cs request to 
remove the financial adviser ongoing charge in September 2019. In summary, Royal London 
explained they received Mr Cs letter to amend the regular payment but not his letter to 
remove his financial adviser as the servicing agent on his plan. They went on to explain that 
having received his letter to alter the premium (by post rather than email), they wrote to his 
financial adviser at the time to inform him and sought confirmation of the increase. Royal 
London said that Mr Cs adviser confirmed back to them that the ongoing charges should 
continue.
Royal London also said they wrote to Mr C at the same time pointing out the revised 
premium and, in their letter, it showed an ongoing cost going to his existing adviser  they 
say he never responded to that letter. Royal London went on to say that if theyd received a 
request to remove the adviser, they wouldnt have sought clarification from that business 
about the new premium increase.
Mr C didnt provide a response to the provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Royal London have stated they only disagree with one element of my provisional decision. I 
have therefore focused my attention on that single point  that of when Mr C asked Royal 
London to remove his adviser from his pension and to stop paying them an ongoing 
servicing fee.
Whats in no doubt here is that Royal London received Mr Cs letter of 9 September 2019 
asking them to amend his premium. However, Royal London state they have no record of 
receiving the second letter asking for the adviser fee to be stopped. Mr C says he emailed 
both letters to Royal London and has shared a copy of that email and the two letter 
attachments.
Royal London said that after receiving Mr Cs 9 September 2019 letter (by post) asking them 
to amend his contribution, they wrote to him on 2 October 2019 confirming the change. 
Royal London explained their October letter showed they were still paying an adviser charge 
but Mr C didnt raise it as a concern at that time. Whilst I appreciate Royal Londons letter 
does include the fact theyre paying an ongoing adviser fee from the pension, that 
information isnt mentioned until the back of an 11 page letter theyve sent him about the 
premium revision. However, just because the information was included in their letter, I dont 
think thats the end of the story. 
Royal London also stated that when they told his adviser of the revised premium in October 
2019, the adviser didnt explain they were no longer working for Mr C. However, I think it 
likely that Mr C hadnt unreasonably concluded that by cancelling the agency on the plan 
with Royal London, would be sufficient to end his relationship with the adviser. But, just 
because his adviser wasnt aware of his wishes to remove them as his agent, it doesnt 
necessarily mean Mr C hadnt told Royal London to take his advisers servicing rights off the 
plan. 
I shared a copy of Mr Cs email with Royal London that he says he sent to them in 
September 2019. The email included two attachments: a letter covering the request to 
amend the premium and another to remove his financial adviser as servicing agent, asking 
Royal London to cease all further payments to them. 
Royal London have explained theyve been unable to either validate or trace the email that 
Mr C stated he sent them on 9 September 2019. However, just because Royal London cant 
find Mr Cs email in their system, doesnt mean he didnt send it. His email of 9 September 
2019 was sent to the same email address that he used to send his 17 November 2017 email 
to. And, Royal London havent stated that email address is invalid or had since changed. 
Royal London also later conceded they had received Mr Cs November 2017 email when he 
sent evidence of that message to them. So, I find it more likely than not Mr C did send Royal 
London the email on 9 September 2019, covering both the premium revision and 
importantly, the request to stop paying his adviser a fee. And as Ive already explained, I 
think it improbable Royal London received one letter and not the other, especially when the 
adviser removal request letter was attached to the same email.
Finally, from what Ive seen, Mr Cs communication with Royal London has predominantly 
been via email and telephone so, despite what Royal London say about having received his premium alteration letter through the post, from the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded he did 
send the email to Royal London on 9 September 2019 that also included the request to 
remove his existing adviser and stop paying them a fee.
So, as Ive already explained - whilst Ive not seen any evidence Mr C asked for the adviser 
to be removed in 2017, I am satisfied he asked for the removal in September 2019. As such, 
I am upholding this part of his complaint and require Royal London to refund the adviser fees 
he paid from September 2019 onwards.
Summary
I have therefore reached the same decision for the reasons Ive already set out above and 
as such, require Royal London to take the following actions to put things right for Mr C:
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put back as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if had not been for Royal Londons error.
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Cs circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
As Ive already explained, in addition to the actions below, Royal London must also:
Pay Mr C the £500 for the trouble and upset theyve caused (if theyve not already done 
so).
Refund the £128 in bank charges.
Adviser Charges - What must Royal London do?
To compensate Mr C fairly Royal London should:
Refund the adviser fees Mr C paid on his plan from 9 September 2019 onwards. The 
refund should take account of any growth those fees wouldve benefited from had they 
remained invested (in the funds they were debited from) to the date the pension was 
switched away.
Despite the fact the consumer has switched their pension away, any further loss Mr C 
has suffered on those fees needs to be brought up to date. To keep things simple for 
both parties, rather than asking Royal London to seek out third party information from Mr 
Cs new provider calculating what wouldve happened with those fees in the new plan, 
Im satisfied that adding 8% simple interest per year on any loss from the end date 
(which is the point at which the pension switched away) to the date of settlement is a fair 
award.
Royal London should pay into Mr Cs pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of 
the compensation. Royal Londons payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. Royal London shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If Royal London are unable to pay the compensation into Mr Cs pension plan, they should 
pay that amount direct to Mr C. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr C wont 
be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Cs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr C would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Royal London considers theyre required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr C 
how much they have taken off. Royal London should also give Mr C a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Mr C asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C had asked Royal London to stop paying charges to his financial adviser in September 
2019 but they failed to action his instruction. The calculation ensures Mr C is put back in the 
position he wouldve been in had those fees not been debited.
My final decision
Im upholding the complaint and I require The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited to put things right in the manner Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman