DRN-3325105
The complaint
Mr K complains about the handling of a claim following the theft of his cars catalytic 
convertor by Ageas Insurance Limited under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2021 the catalytic convertor was stolen from Mr Ks car. He made a claim to 
Ageas and says it told him its garage would collect the vehicle and provide a courtesy car. 
He spoke to Ageas on the Sunday and expected the garage to visit the following Tuesday.
When the garage didnt attend or make contact on Tuesday Mr K contacted Ageas again. He 
wasnt happy with the delay with his car being collected and that he had no courtesy car. Mr 
K wasnt happy having to chase the progress of the claim and felt he was doing Ageass job. 
An engineer inspected Mr Ks car two days later. It was found to be repairable. 
Arrangements were made to collect it and provide a courtesy car. Mr K says this didnt 
happen for a further five days. He says the courtesy car was automatic, which he hadnt 
driven before so he didnt use it. He was asked to pay a £1 deposit for the car and found 
Ageas had shared personal details with the company. He didnt think this shouldve 
happened. 
Ageas says Mr K was told its garage would contact him to first arrange an inspection of his 
car. This was to understand the extent of the damage and if it was repairable. It says it didnt 
tell him the car would be collected. The garage didnt make contact when expected due to its 
engineer being off sick. It says it chased this after Mr K had called and the inspection took 
place the following day. 
Ageas says the hire company followed its process by asking for a £1 deposit but apologised 
to Mr K that he wasnt told about this or the need to share some information with it. Ageas 
apologised that Mr K had to chase the progression of his claim and for any inconvenience 
this caused. 
Mr K wasnt satisfied with Ageass response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He listened to the calls and thought Ageas had been 
clear that its garage first needed to inspect the damage. It didnt say his car would be 
collected and a courtesy car provided prior to this. He thought the policy terms were clear 
that a courtesy car is provided for the period a car is being repaired and required Mr K to 
keep to the garages conditions regarding the deposit. 
Our investigator thought the courtesy car was arranged within a reasonable period as was 
the repair of Mr Ks car. Because of this he thought Ageas had handled his claim fairly.
Mr K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive listened to the call recordings between Mr K and Ageas. During the first call his claim is 
registered. Hes told someone else will contact him to go through the claim in full. The next 
day Mr K calls in the early afternoon as he hadnt been contacted. Ageass call handler went 
through the claim in full at this time. He says Mr Ks details will be provided to its garage. 
The garage will contact him the following Tuesday morning, to get you booked in and to 
organise collection of his car and provision of a courtesy car.
Mr Ks recollection differs from this. He recalls being told the garage will collect the car and 
provide a courtesy car on Tuesday. Having listened to the call this isnt what was said. The 
call handler doesnt state the car will be collected on Tuesday and a courtesy car provided. 
He says the garage will contact Mr K to organise this.
I acknowledge Mr Ks view, but Ageass process is to allow its garage to assess the car 
before deciding next steps. This is explained in more detail in subsequent calls. But its clear 
Ageas didnt initially tell Mr K his car would be collected, and a courtesy car provided as he 
had claimed. 
Ive read Mr Ks policy terms to understand if and when a courtesy car should be provided. 
The terms say:
Section 11  Temporary replacement car: When we will provide a replacement car:
We will provide a replacement car, from a company we choose, if you make a claim under 
section 2 of this policy and:
 you have comprehensive cover; 
 the loss or damage happens in the United Kingdom;
 we accept your claim;
 your car is being repaired by one of our approved
repairers;
 you agree to keep to all the repair companys conditions;
and
 you are 18 years old or more at the time of the claim. 
Section two of the policy terms refers to loss of, or damage to the insured customers car. 
So, Mr K was entitled to a replacement car if his was being repaired by an approved 
repairer. The policy doesnt provide for a replacement car until the car is being repaired. The 
terms also require that Mr K agrees to keep to the repair companys conditions. 
I understand Mr Ks car was booked into Ageass repair garage for around a week after his 
claim was registered. But it arranged for a hire company to provide a replacement car three 
days earlier than this. Mr K was asked to pay a £1 deposit by the hire car company. He 
didnt think it was his responsibility to pay this, he wanted the car delivered to his home and 
didnt know his insurance policy would be used to cover the hire car. 
Ageass claim notes show the car hire company subsequently agreed to deliver the car. But 
Mr K was told he would need to cooperate and follow its process. He didnt agree to pay the 
£1 deposit or cooperate further with the company, so no hire car was provided. Albeit a courtesy car was later provided when the garage began its repairs. 
I acknowledge Mr K holds strong views on what Ageas should have done in these 
circumstances. But the terms are clear that Mr K needs to follow the repairers conditions. In 
this case the repairer instructed a hire company and Mr K was expected to follow its 
conditions. This included providing a £1 deposit and accepting his insurance provided the 
necessary cover. I dont think its unreasonable for Mr K to have expected some contact with 
the hire company so as to make the necessary arrangements. 
Having considered these points, I dont think Ageas acted unreasonably here. 
Mr K says he didnt use the courtesy car as he hadnt driven an automatic before. I cant see 
that he raised this issue with Ageas so, I cant consider it here. Mr K can raise this with 
Ageas directly if he wishes. 
I have thought about the overall timeframe from Mr K making his claim to his car being 
repaired and returned to him. It took around a week before repairs commenced. Mr Ks car 
was then repaired and returned to him within three days. I dont think this timeframe is 
unreasonable. 
There was a bank holiday immediately after Mr K made his claim, which Ageas says 
impacted on the garages availability. There was a days delay in the garage assessing the 
damage because its engineer was ill. This was unfortunate. But I dont think Mr Ks 
expectation was justified that his car would be collected, and a courtesy car provided the 
Tuesday after making his claim. This isnt what Ageas told him. 
I think it was reasonable for Ageas to attempt to provide a hire car, prior to the repair taking 
place. If Mr K had agreed to this, he wouldnt have been without a car for more than a few 
days. This isnt something that was required under his policy.
Having considered all of this, I think Ageas relied on its policy terms and handled Mr Ks 
claim fairly. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman