DRN-1462310
 
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Unum Ltd (Unum) have not met his income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr P has an income protection policy that pays him a proportion of his income if hes unable 
to work in his usual occupation because of sickness or injury. Mr Ps policy has a waiting, or 
deferred, period of six months from when he first became unable to work before benefit is 
paid. 
Mr P says he was unable to work as a sole trader in the property maintenance industry from 
the end of April 2016. He contacted Unum to make a claim in May 2017. Unum initially 
rejected Mr Ps claim on the basis he notified them of it outside of the ninety-day period set 
out in the policy which prejudiced their assessment of the complaint. Mr P's representative 
appealed. Unum found theyd sent Mr P an incorrect version of the policy in which some 
claim conditions, including the requirement to notify Unum, were not clearly set out. As a 
result, Unum agreed to reassess Mr Ps claim and paid Mr P £400 compensation. 
In May 2018 Unum again declined Mr Ps claim. They said the medical evidence they had 
reviewed did not indicate Mr P had a medical condition that would result in a prolonged 
impairment of function. Unum said Mr P could perform his own occupation. Mr P disagreed 
and brought a complaint to this service. He said he had provided evidence that 
demonstrated he met the relevant definition, Unums reasons for declining his claim were 
factually inaccurate, Unum had made assumptions about his ability to work without getting 
evidence such as a functional capacity report, and his ability to provide supporting medical 
evidence was prejudiced by Unums initial rejection of his claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. He reviewed Mr Ps medical records and 
concluded he didnt meet the terms of the policy. Although Mr P had been unable to work for 
limited periods, on good days he was able to work in his usual occupation. He also noted 
that Mr Ps medical records referred to the fact he was working shortly after the end of the 
deferred period ended. Mr P didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked for a final 
decision, so his case has been referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I don't uphold this 
complaint.
Mr Ps policy provides for the payment of benefit if he meets the following definition of 
incapacity, 
Incapacity or incapacitatedMeans you cannot perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation because of 
illness or injury.
Mr P was self-employed before his illness. His occupation involved the day to day running of 
his property maintenance business, painting, decorating and gardening. 
Benefit is payable to Mr P after a six-month deferred period. The deferred period is 
described in his policy as, 
The continuous period from the date you are first unable to perform the material and 
substantial duties of your occupation to the date benefit is payable.
Having reviewed the medical evidence it is clear Mr P has suffered from an illness that has 
affected his ability to work for a period of time. What I need to consider is whether he has 
been continuously unable to perform the material and substantial duties of his occupation for 
the whole six-month deferred period. To do so, Ive reviewed Mr Ps medical records. Mr P 
says his last day of work was 29 April 2016 which would mean the deferred period ended on 
29 October 2016.
Mr P consulted his general practitioner (GP) in May 2016 with a pain in his groin. On 25 May 
2016 he complained of flu like symptoms for the last few days, including light-headedness, 
lethargy, weakness and an inability to concentrate. These symptoms continued, and Mr P 
was referred to consultants. In June 2016 a consultant reported to Mr Ps GP, 
I reviewed [Mr P] in clinic today. His symptoms are possibly slowly getting better in that he 
is able to get back to work on good days. 
In August 2016 another consultant said Mr P had symptoms that would be in keeping with a 
post-viral type syndrome and noted he was finding it difficult to maintain his job, and was 
financially, managing OK with his limited work. The same consultant saw Mr P again in 
September 2016 and told Mr Ps GP he was having good days, but it may be another 6-12 
months before Mr P was back to normal. The consultant noted Mr P had a fairly fit and active 
job, but didnt comment specifically on whether Mr P was working. 
In January 2017, so soon after the end of the deferred period, Mr P was diagnosed with 
chronic fatigue syndrome. Hs records show he was working, although not at full capacity,
Although [Mr P] is functioning at some level in that he is able to do some work, he has a 
physical job  and has had to cancel some longer contracts as he feels unable to work at 
full capacity.
My review indicates Mr Ps symptoms varied in nature. At times they were severe and 
prevented him from doing anything, but at other times Mr P was fit enough to work in his 
usual occupation. Given this, Im not persuaded Mr P was unable to perform the material 
and substantial duties of his occupation for a continuous period of six months throughout the 
deferred period. This means Mr P isnt entitled to benefit under the terms of his income 
protection policy. 
Other evidence after the end of the deferred period would suggest Mr P improved gradually 
and continued to undertake some work. In February 2017 records say Mr P was still tired a 
lot, but not as much and hadnt done much work that week. In March 2017 Mr P reported he 
was functioning better, but still had bad days. And in May he said he was functioning at 70-
80% and he was working three to four days a week. Mr P didnt attend an appointment 
related to his CFS in July 2017. By December 2017 Mr P told his GP he was working every 
night.Mr P feels hes been prejudiced by the fact he was provided with the wrong policy 
documents and Unum initially declined his claim. He said as a result he lost the opportunity 
to provide evidence to support his claim. I dont consider this is the case, as Unum has relied 
on medical records made at the relevant time. In any event, given the evidence that Mr P 
continued to work I dont think further medical evidence would have been helpful.
Whilst Im sorry Mr P suffered ill health, Im persuaded Unum acted reasonably and in line 
with the terms of his policy in rejecting his claim. 
My final decision
I'm not asking Unum Ltd to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman