DRN-1686202
 
complaint
Mr M and Ms S complain that they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside a mortgage with Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire).
background
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint  but didnt think it should be upheld. In particular, 
our adjudicator didnt think Mr M and Ms S had ever been charged anything for PPI  so they 
hadnt lost out.
Mr M and Ms S didnt agree and so the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Yorkshire has provided a copy of the original mortgage application form which shows no 
mention of PPI. The mortgage offer refers to PPI as an Optional Insurance and explained 
that Mr M and Ms S were not obliged to take any insurance through Yorkshire. It shows that 
PPI has been chosen to go with the mortgage. 
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about PPI should be upheld, Id 
expect any compensation to put the consumer in the financial position theyd be in if they 
hadnt bought the policy.
The PPI was attached to a mortgage. And both sides have explained that no premiums were 
paid by Mr M and Ms S as the first six premiums were paid by Yorkshire. As theres 
agreement on this point, Im satisfied Mr M and Ms S didnt ever pay for PPI. 
This means that even if something had gone wrong when the retailer sold Mr M and Ms S 
the policy, Mr M and Ms S havent lost out financially because of this.
Mr M and Ms S say that they didnt suffer a loss (or pay any premiums) as they were vigilant 
and cancelled the policy in time. And they feel that they should still receive redress award 
and another award to reflect their distress and inconvenience in bringing their complaint. 
Ive thought about these things, but I cant see that Mr M and Ms S have suffered any 
inconvenience or distress greater than that suffered by any other party who brings their 
complaint to us for consideration. 
So, as explained above, As Mr M and Ms S never paid anything towards the PPI, they 
havent lost out financially because of the sale of the policy. It follows that I dont uphold their 
complaint and I dont make an award.
my final decisionI dont uphold Mr M and Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman