DRN-2286350
The complaint
Mr H complains about fees that were incorrectly charged to his credit card account by Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank.
 
What happened
In 2018, Mr H opened a credit card account with Tesco Bank with a £250 credit limit. I can 
see the following fees were applied to Mr Hs account from the bank statements provided:
July 2019 statement  one of Mr Hs direct debits were returned unpaid, so a £12 
return payment fee was charged on 27 June 2019. However, this fee was 
subsequently refunded by Tesco Bank as a gesture of goodwill.
August 2019 statement  a £12 return payment fee was charged on 8 July 2019 and 
then refunded to Mr H two weeks later.
November 2019 statement  £12 overlimit fee was charged on 6 November 2019 as 
Mr Hs outstanding balance was over £250.
December 2019 statement - £12 overlimit fee was charged 6 December 2019 as Mr 
Hs outstanding balance was over £250.
January 2020 statement  Tesco Bank refunded the two previous overlimit fees (from 
November and December 2019), totalling £24, to Mr Hs account on 9 December 
2019 as a gesture of goodwill. A £12 late payment fee was charged on 31 December 
2019 as Mr H hadnt made the minimum payment and the outstanding balance was 
£261.62.
February 2020 statement - £12 late payment fee charged on 31 January 2020 and 
£12 overlimit fee on 6 February 2020 as the minimum payment hadnt been made 
and the outstanding balance was over £250.
Tesco Bank also let Mr H know in February 2020 that they would put a hold in applying any 
fees or charges to the account for 30 days. Tesco Bank have also confirmed the account 
has now been terminated due to non-payment and no new fees or charges have been 
applied since the termination in May 2020. 
Mr H says the charges were incorrectly applied and he has asked for a refund of all the fees 
and charges that were applied.
Tesco Bank said when payments werent received on time and where the account exceeded 
the credit limit, fees were applied as per the accounts terms and conditions. Tesco Bank 
also say they issued Mr H with a formal default notice on 8 April which told him he had 28 
days to pay a certain amount to avoid further action which may have an impact on his ability 
to obtain credit in the future.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs concerns. In summary, she said Tesco Bank didnt do 
anything wrong in applying the fees and charges to Mr Hs account as these were applied in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account. She also said she thought Tesco Bank had 
acted fairly by refunding some of the fees to Mr H. Mr H disagreed. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Hs credit agreement say that if the account is over the credit limit at any 
time during a statement period, Tesco Bank will charge £12. In addition to this, the terms 
explain that a £12 fee will be charged if Mr H fails to pay the minimum payment on time or if 
a direct debit cannot be paid. These fees were also detailed in Mr Hs monthly statements.
I can see from the information provided Tesco Bank charged Mr H a fee each time his 
account went over the £250 credit limit. And I can also see that when Mr H didnt make the 
minimum payments on time, a fee was also charged. 
Tesco Bank have provided us with copies of default sum notices which were sent to Mr H 
each time a fee was applied. In addition to the default sum notices, Tesco Bank also sent Mr 
H a Notice of Sum in Arrears in February 2020. The letter says this was sent to Mr H as he 
had missed or only partially paid the last two minimum monthly payments he was required to 
make under his credit agreement. The notice lets Mr H know the total minimum payments 
due. I can also see the monthly statements explained that, by not paying the minimum 
repayment, Mr H had breached the terms of the credit agreement.  Having thought about all 
of this, Im satisfied Tesco Bank made Mr H aware of what fee was being applied and they 
also made clear to Mr H what payment he was required to make. 
Whilst I can understand Mr Hs frustration, I think Tesco Bank made clear to Mr H what his 
contractual obligations were under the accounts terms and conditions. Therefore, I dont 
think Tesco Bank acted unfairly or unreasonably when they applied the terms and conditions 
of Mr Hs account. I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr H, but I hope 
my explanation helps him to understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Im aware Mr H may have raised other issues relating to this account with Tesco Bank. But 
the only complaint hes asked us to look at relate to the fees and charges Ive listed above 
so thats all this decision deals with.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman