DRN-3927700
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that hes unable to take 25% tax free cash from his existing pension 
policy with Standard Life and hell need to switch to a new product. Hes also unhappy that 
Standard Life didnt inform him earlier that hed need to do that. 
What happened
Mr H has a personal pension policy with Standard Life which he took out in 2001 and which 
he manages online. In September 2022 Mr H wanted to take his 25% tax free cash 
entitlement from his pension and leave the remainder invested. Standard Life told Mr H hed 
need to switch to a different product as his existing policy didnt offer that option. 
Mr H complained to Standard Life but his complaint wasnt upheld. Mr H referred it to this 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but he didnt uphold it. Amongst other 
things he said Mr Hs policy was established in 2001 and the flexibility Mr H was seeking 
was only introduced in 2015. The policy terms and conditions didnt include the option Mr H 
was seeking to exercise. Mr H may have been concerned hed be financially disadvantaged 
if he had to switch to another product but Standard Life had explained why that wasnt the 
case. Standard Life hadnt acted other than in accordance with the terms of the existing 
policy and had just given Mr H information necessary to action his request. 
The investigator recognised that Standard Life hadnt deal with one of Mr Hs complaint 
points  that he hadnt been made aware beforehand that hed need to move away from 
what was considered a legacy account. The investigator said that was disappointing. The 
investigator had been in touch with Standard Life whod said they were under no obligation 
to proactively make customers aware of the changes and unless the customer had specified 
a course of action that made it necessary. 
Mr H maintained that Standard Lifes service wasnt adequate and hed been misled. He 
remained unhappy that, in rejecting his complaint, Standard Life hadnt explained why he 
hadnt been informed earlier.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators view and the reasons he gave as to why he 
wasnt upholding Mr Hs complaint. I dont have much to add. I know Mr H feels very strongly 
that he hasnt been treated properly by Standard Life but I dont think Standard Life has done 
anything wrong. 
In reaching that conclusion Ive considered everything. Ive paid particular attention to the 
points made by Mr H in rejecting the investigators view. 
I can understand Mr H was disappointed, when he wanted to take tax free cash from his 
pension, that the process wasnt as straightforward as hed anticipated and when hed been 
managing his pension online for some years. But Mr H had an older style pension product  
hed taken out his policy in 2001  which didnt facilitate the flexibility introduced in 2015 by 
the Pensions Freedoms for accessing defined contribution pension arrangements. Instead 
the pension reflected the narrower options which had previously applied. 
Mr Hs main concern seems to be that Standard Life hadnt told him in advance that hed be 
unable to withdraw just the tax free cash from his pension and that, to do so, hed need to 
close his existing policy and switch to another product. But I dont agree it was necessary for 
Standard Life to make Mr H (or indeed other customers with similar pension plans) aware 
unless and until he indicated to Standard Life that he wanted to something with his pension. 
Standard Life was then in a position to inform Mr H whether his existing product allowed him 
to do what he was planning. And, if not, what Mr H needed to do and what other products 
were available. 
Mr H says customers should be provided with all up to date information regarding their 
pension and informed in a timely manner of any changes to make an informed decision. I 
think some pension providers may have provided customers with some information about 
the introduction of Pension Freedoms, if only in very general terms. Im not sure if Standard 
Life did. 
But, even if not, I dont think that means Standard Life failed in its responsibilities to its 
customers. I dont think there was any change to Mr Hs pension as such. The situation isnt 
the same as if thered been changes to the terms and conditions of the product he had. The 
changes had been to the overarching legislation and regulations. If Mr H wanted to access 
his pension more flexibly hed have to switch to a different product which had been set up to 
facilitate those options. I dont agree that Standard Life shouldve been promoting an 
alternative product to existing customers who might or might not want to avail themselves of 
the options the Pensions Freedoms introduced. Details of the products that Standard Life 
offered were available on Standard Lifes website or on enquiry to Standard Life. 
Nor do I see that Standard Life shouldve said that the new flexible access rules introduced 
in 2015 would apply to Mr Hs existing product. Standard Life, in common with other pension 
providers, has set up new products which specifically reflect the legislative and regulatory 
changes. Thats a business decision for Standard Life. I dont agree theres any obligation on 
Standard Life to try and amend the terms and conditions of legacy products to incorporate 
what were significant changes.  
I cant see that Mr Hs position was prejudiced or that he was treated unfairly by having to 
switch to a new product. I think he was initially concerned thered be higher charges 
associated with the new product. But Standard Life has explained, if Mr H switches to the 
alternative product which will allow him to take his 25% tax free cash and leave the 
remainder invested, theres no initial charge and no bid/offer spread charges. The annual 
management fee, based on Mr Hs existing funds, would remain the same. He also gets a 
discount of 0.367%. And, if he switches to the new account, the discount is more generous 
so the charges will reduce. 
Standard Life isnt placing any barriers on Mr H switching, nor will he incur any financial 
penalty in switching to a newer product, the terms and conditions of which are aligned to the 
more flexible options introduced in 2015.
While it might have been helpful if Standard Life had directly addressed the issue in 
responding to Mr Hs complaint, I think what Standard Life later said  that they were under 
any obligation to proactively make customers aware of the changes  is right. And I dont see that Mr Hs position was prejudiced by only finding out when he did  it seems that a 
switch, if hed have wanted to go ahead with one, couldve been easily arranged.  
I recognise that Mr H feels very strongly that Standard Life hasnt acted correctly and in line 
with the service which Mr H expected. I know Mr H will be disappointed but Im unable to 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman