DRN-3618348
The complaint
Ms M and Mr T complain that Santander UK Plc withdrew a mortgage offer the day before 
completion. Ms M has dealt with the complaint throughout. She asks for compensation for 
their losses and distress.
What happened
Ms M and Mr T applied for a mortgage with Santander. It issued a mortgage offer on 18 
June 2021. The stated purchase price was incorrect. Ms M says she pointed this out and 
was told it wouldnt be a problem. Completion was scheduled for 30 June 2021. 
On 29 June 2021 Santander said it would have to re-issue the mortgage offer with the 
correct purchase price. This meant it wouldnt provide funds in time for completion, the next 
day.
Ms M says they couldnt delay completion due to the sale and purchase chain. They 
borrowed from family members to complete the purchase. Ms M says the compensation 
offered by Santander isnt sufficient. 
Our investigator said Ms M hadnt provided evidence of any financial loss. He said 
Santanders offer to refund the product fee (£999) and pay £250 for the upset was fair.
Ms M didnt agree. She said the compensation wasnt fair. She says Santanders error 
caused a hugely stressful few days, which impacted on them and their family members.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ms M and Mr T applied to Santander for a mortgage on 18 May 2021. The mortgage offer 
was issued on 18 June 2021. However, Santander made an error with the purchase price. 
Ms M called Santander on 24 June 2021 to say the purchase price was incorrect in the 
mortgage offer. She was told this wasnt a problem and to ask her solicitor to send the 
correct purchase price in writing. The solicitor sent a fax to Santander on 25 June 2021, 
asking it to correct the purchase price in its records. The solicitor said the purchase was due 
to complete on 30 June 2021. Santander received the certificate of title (COT) from the 
solicitor on 28 June 2021 (with the correct purchase price). Ms M says Santander told her on 
29 June 2021 that the mortgage offer would have to be re-issued, and funds wouldnt be 
available for completion the next day. Santander wrote to the solicitor on 30 June 2021 
asking how the increase in the purchase price would be funded.  
Ms M and Mr T were able to complete their purchase on the agreed date, by borrowing 
money from family. Ms M says there was a £20 transfer fee for the money transferred from 
her family, and her family arent earning interest on the money they lent to her. And, while 
her solicitor didnt charge extra for dealing with issues related to Santanders error, shell 
incur fees when they apply for a new mortgage. Ms M says shes looking for compensation 
for the emotional stress.
I need to be fair to both parties here. Santander said it processed the application and issued 
a mortgage offer within reasonable time scales. It says it asks borrowers and their solicitors 
to check that an offer is correct, and it responded to the solicitors fax about the error within 
its usual time scales. It says it needs five clear working days to release funds. Santander 
said solicitors shouldnt advise borrowers to agree a completion date until a mortgage offer is 
in place. Santander says, despite the error, had the application continued it would have 
issued a correct mortgage offer within an acceptable timescale.
Ms M and Mr T agreed the completion date before a mortgage offer was issued, and it 
seems before the valuation was completed. From what Ms M has said, they didnt have 
much option but to accept 30 June 2021 as the completion date due to the sale and 
purchase chain they were part of. That timing wasnt Santanders responsibility. When Ms M 
and Mr T agreed the completion date without a mortgage offer in place they took a risk that 
Santander wouldnt provide a mortgage in time, or at all. 
Ive taken all of this into account when considering what compensation, if any, is fair and 
reasonable.
I can only award compensation to a complainant  Ms M and Mr T. I cant award 
compensation for the losses or upset of third parties. So while Ms M says her family lost 
interest on the money lent to them and found visiting the bank to move funds stressful, this 
isnt something I can fairly require Santander to pay compensation for. 
Id also point out that if Ms M and Mr T had taken out the mortgage, theyd be paying interest 
on the loan. I dont know if theyre paying interest to their family members  Ms Ms comment 
that their family has lost out on interest suggests not. So it seems Ms M and Mr T are 
(unintentionally) benefitting from an interest free loan. 
Ive no doubt that this caused stress. Ms M and Mr T and their family had to organise the 
transfer of funds at short notice. They cancelled a family birthday party to do so. In order to 
repay the borrowed money Ms M and Mr T say theyll have to make a new mortgage 
application, with the inconvenience and costs associated with this. 
There was a relatively short amount of time between Ms M and Mr T making their mortgage 
application and the agreed completion date. Nonetheless, if Santander hadnt made an error, 
its possible the mortgage might have completed by 30 June 2021. It must have been 
disappointing this wasnt the case. But I need to take into account that when Ms M and Mr T 
agreed the completion date they did so knowing there was a risk that the mortgage wouldnt 
be in place. I think its reasonable to assume theyd considered and made plans about how 
theyd fund the purchase if this happened. And I think theyd reasonably have known the 
mortgage wouldnt complete in time some days before 29 June 2021. Santander says it 
needs five working days to release funds (which the solicitor would have known) and it was 
only three working days before the completion date when the solicitor contacted Santander 
about the purchase price being incorrect. 
Santander refunded the product booking fee of £999 and paid compensation of £250. Im 
sorry that the mortgage didnt complete in time. But I need to take into account that Ms M 
and Mr T must reasonably have known this was a risk. In the circumstances, I think the 
compensation paid by Santander is fair and reasonable for the effect its error had on Ms M and Mr T.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I think the compensation 
paid by Santander UK Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman