DRN-4086660
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from QIC Europe Ltd following an escape of 
water at his property
What happened
Mr T held a buildings and contents insurance policy, which is provided by QIC Europe Ltd 
(QIC). He also held home emergency cover. 
In October 2022 he noticed that the bathroom floor was damp and there was a damp patch 
on the wall in his spare room. He believed this has been caused by an electric shower 
because the damp was worsening when the shower was in use. So, he contacted QIC to 
report an escape of water claim.
Mr T said, prior to making his claim, he hadnt claimed under an insurance policy before. So, 
he was unfamiliar with the claims process.
QIC informed Mr T to instruct a plumber to undertake trace and access work and to repair 
the leak that was causing the escape of water. It also appointed a company, which Ill refer 
to within this decision as T, to attend Mr Ts home in order to install equipment to carry out 
the drying works.
T attended Mr Ts home on 2 November 2022. However, Mr T noticed T was using a body 
worn camera (BWC). He said he observed T enter parts of his property that werent affected 
by the escape of water and capture images from areas that were irrelevant to the claim. Mr T 
said he objected to the use of BWC and made this clear to the contractor from T that was in 
attendance. He also wrote to QIC on 5 November explaining his objection.
QIC also instructed a surveyor to attend Mr Ts property, which Ill call S. Mr T said the 
surveyor was due to attend his property on 29 November 2022. He stated that, on 25 
November, this appointment was subsequently rearranged for 7 December 2022, leaving 
him in a position where hed taken annual leave from work which he wasnt able to cancel.
On 7 December, S attended Mr Ts property to assess and validate the claim. S was 
satisfied the claim was valid and scoped the reinstatement works. While S wasnt using 
BWC, two contractors from T also visited Mr Ts home wearing BWC. 
Mr T said he instructed Ts contractors to disable their BWC and, again, made clear his 
objection to the use of such equipment. But they wouldnt enter Mr Ts home without their 
BWC enabled. 
Mr T spoke with T over the telephone during the second visit taking place. He stated that the 
tone of the member of staff he spoke with was unpleasant, threatening and coercive. He also 
said the staff member threatened to involve the police to retrieve drying equipment that had 
previously been left at Mr Ts home by T if he didnt permit contractors to enter his home with 
BWC. Mr T wasnt prepared to do so.
Mr T stated that, later that day, a cash settlement was offered to resolve his claim. He said 
he hadnt agreed or requested that his claim be settled in this way and wanted QICs 
appointed contractors to undertake the necessary reinstatement works. But he said he 
wasnt given this option and was, instead, told his claim would be settled in cash.
Mr T explained that felt under pressure to accept a cash settlement which he didnt fully 
understand. He stated that there was no settlement breakdown so the offer wasnt 
transparent. He said this meant he didnt know whether the offer included all recoverable 
costs including the cost of electricity used by the drying equipment. And he said he found 
communication with QIC evasive, disjointed and incoherent, which added to the trouble and 
upset he experienced. 
Mr T felt he was being penalised by QIC in how it was dealing with his claim as a result of 
refusing to allow BWC to be used. So, he complained about the way in which his claim had 
been handled. He asked QIC to address his concerns about the use of BWC by T and its 
behaviour during the telephone call on 7 December 2022, which he said was unprofessional 
and distressing. 
On 17 January 2023, QIC issued its final response to Mr Ts complaint. It stated that body 
worn cameras are used by T when attending policyholders homes in the interests of safety, 
such as when T had attended initially to install drying equipment. It stated that the footage 
would be used to assess the validity of a claim and explained that such evidence was 
securely saved with access restricted to a select and small number of staff. 
QIC apologised that T had attended Mr Ts home a second time wearing BWC. It stated that 
T had assumed this would be acceptable given that BWC had been in use during its 
previous visit. QIC explained that, as use of BWC was company policy, it wasnt upholding 
this part of Mr Ts complaint.
QIC looked into Ts conduct over the telephone on 7 December 2022 as part of its 
investigation into this complaint. It acknowledged that the member of staff that Mr T had 
spoken with had talked over him and raised his voice. It apologised for that experience and 
stated that feedback had been provided to the relevant member of staff. 
QIC explained that it wanted to progress Mr Ts claim further but that it wasnt able to do so if 
he refused to allow T to return with the use of BWC. It stated that it needed to collect the 
drying equipment that had been left at Mr Ts property by T.
Being dissatisfied with how QIC proposed to resolve Mr Ts complaint, he referred it to our 
service. Our investigator empathised with Mr T and recommended upholding his complaint. 
They thought hed experienced aspects of poor service and told QIC it should pay £300 
compensation to resolve this complaint. QIC agreed with our investigators view of this 
complaint. But Mr T didnt. He thought he should be awarded more compensation and asked 
an ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr T experienced here. I can appreciate how he 
thought his claim would be resolved quickly with minimal stress and inconvenient. I 
recognise that didnt happen here and have taken into account how stressful and 
inconvenient this all was for him.Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont 
act for either a consumer or a business. And I want to assure Mr T and QIC that, in 
considering this complaint, I thought very carefully about what happened here.  
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
My role is to assess whether I think QIC made a mistake, or treated Mr T unfairly, such that it 
needs to now put things right. I can see all parties have gone to some trouble to provide our 
service with some detailed points about this complaint. Ive read everything theyve sent us. 
But I hope theyll understand if I dont address every comment theyve made in this decision. 
I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to this complaint.
Ill say at the outset that our investigator undertook a very thorough and comprehensive 
investigation of this complaint. I agree with the view they reached in upholding this complaint 
and Im persuaded that the compensation they recommended is a fair amount for QIC to pay 
for the distress and inconvenience Mr T suffered. Indeed, theres not a great deal I can add 
to what our investigators already told Mr T. I think they set out the position very clearly and 
thoroughly.
The available evidence shows that Mr T didnt receive clear communication from QIC about 
the progress of his claim or what was covered under his policy. He was told to repair the leak 
himself. This wouldnt be something his policy with QIC covered in line with the terms of his 
buildings insurance policy but this was something he could have been indemnified him for 
under his home emergency insurance policy. 
Prior to Mr T instructing a plumber to attend his home, I cant see that QIC explained to him 
that he could have cover for repairs relating to damaged or leaking pipes under his home 
emergency policy. Im not persuaded QIC checked whether Mr T had home emergency 
cover which Id have expected it to do as it had access to such information. And Im 
therefore satisfied that QIC missed an opportunity to assist Mr T with the claims process, 
which was particularly important here due to naivety of the claims process.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, QIC only informed Mr T that he had the benefit of home 
emergency cover after he queried why he was required to pay for repairs to the leaking pipe. 
It wasnt fair that Mr T found out he had cover under his home emergency insurance policy 
only after challenging a request that he pay for repairs. I think this created a feeling of 
mistrust and confusion that could have been avoided.
I understand that Mr T received automated messages from QIC via its insurance portal that 
were irrelevant to how his claim was progressing. This would have caused confusion and 
frustration. And it would have unnecessarily complicated the claim process for Mr T and 
caused it to become disjointed.
Mr T complained that his appointment with S was rearranged, which impacted on him 
because he wasnt able to cancel his annual leave. Im satisfied this appointment was 
cancelled with proper notice and Im not persuaded it was QICs fault that the appointment 
couldnt proceed. So, Im not directing QIC to cover the cost of Mr Ts wasted annual leave.
In the overall circumstances, Im persuaded that QIC could have handled and progressed Mr 
Ts claim more efficiently and in a way that would have offered greater assistance to 
someone who was unfamiliar with the claims process. Ive taken that into account in my 
assessment of the compensation Mr T should be paid here.Mr T has explained in detail how the use of BWC caused him distress. He wasnt informed, 
prior to T attending his home, that the field contractor would use BWC. So, this came as a 
shock to him when T visited his home on 2 November 2022.
QIC appears to believe that its use of BWC was justified and reasonable here. It informed 
our investigator that its policy is for staff to use BWC when attending the homes of its 
policyholders. It states this is for security and protection reasons and to also assist it in 
recording evidence relating to a claim.
QIC has shared documentation with our service, which confirmed its use of BWC by field 
staff attending the homes of its policyholders and the circumstances in which such 
equipment is utilised. So, I can understand why T used BWC during its initial visit to Mr Ts 
property. This was in line with QICs policy.
As our investigator explained, were not the regulator of insurers. So, we cant make a 
finding that a business has breached any privacy laws or tell a business to change its policy 
or to adopt the changes that Mr T may like about the use of BWC. 
Im satisfied that QIC followed its policy properly in relation to the initial visit to Mr Ts home. 
It couldnt have reasonably anticipated that Mr T would have objected to the use of BWC and 
I dont think it had a duty to tell him explicitly this was part of its policy in the assessment of 
claims.
However, once QIC became aware of Mr Ts objection to the use of BWC I think it ought to 
have considered whether its use of BWC was appropriate during further visits. Mr Ts 
objection was reasonable and was clearly communicated to QIC on several occasions. It 
missed at least 2 opportunities to reconsider the use of BWC  the first being following Ts 
initial visit and the second being when Mr T wrote to QIC on 5 November confirming his 
objection. It follows that Im not satisfied QIC gave this matter the attention it warranted.
From correspondence Ive seen, Mr T appeared to believe that further visits to his home 
wouldnt involve the use of BWC. I think this was reasonable since hed communicated his 
objection to BWC to QIC after the first visit T made. He didnt pose a threat to Ts contractors 
and it had already recorded images of the damage Mr Ts property had suffered on the BWC 
used during the initial visit.
In the face of such objection by Mr T, and given the images already captured, its unclear 
why BWC had to be used on a subsequent visit by T. And, in attending Mr Ts property with 
BWC after it was aware he didnt consent to use of such equipment, that caused 
unnecessary distress and upset which could have been avoided.
If QIC had taken on board Mr Ts views, this would have avoided the confrontation that Mr T 
was subject to when T returned on 7 December 2022 with BWC. It also would have avoided 
the unpleasant telephone call Mr T had with QIC subsequently that day.
I understand from QICs final response letter that feedback has been provided to the 
member of staff that spoke with Mr T on 7 December. I think this is good practice and its 
what Id have expected QIC to have done having heard the call in question. QIC also 
apologised to Mr T for the way in which the call was handled.
I can appreciate how upset Mr T would have been as a result of his telephone discussion 
with QIC. Ive listened carefully to the recording of that call. Its clear that the staff member 
Mr T spoke with, at times, spoke over him and raised their voice. That wasnt professional 
and they referred to involving the police to retrieve equipment that was within Mr Ts property. This all escalated and worsened an already difficult situation and would have 
added to the worry Mr T felt.
Mr T told our investigator the cash settlement offer wasnt transparent. I understand that he 
was offered just over £1700 to cash settle his claim. But QIC didnt provide a breakdown of 
costs to Mr T so he couldnt satisfy himself that the offer was fair and reasonable. 
Ive seen a fully costed scope of works that QIC has provided our service. In the interests of 
transparency in the claim, this costed scope of works should have been shared with Mr T 
when he asked for further detail about the calculation if not before. Had that been done, Mr T 
would have been able to have more confidence in the claim process and more insight into 
the value of the claim. 
Having carefully considered the scope of works Im satisfied the settlement offered to Mr T 
properly reflects the full reinstatement costs. The figure is £1720.31 plus VAT. But I 
understand Mr T was offered the figure without the VAT element. 
Our service would usually direct an insurer to pay a settlement figure inclusive of VAT where 
theres evidence that a policyholder has incurred VAT costs in funding the cost undertaking 
the reinstatement works where he had to pay VAT paid VAT. 
Here, I havent seen evidence that Mr T incurred costs in undertaking the reinstatement 
works where he had to pay VAT. So Im not persuaded that VAT should be included within 
the settlement offer. It isnt clear whether an excess should be deducted from the settlement 
offer. If this is the case, QIC should take such action and adjust the settlement figure 
accordingly before payment to Mr T is made.
In line with Mr Ts insurance policy QIC is obliged to cover loss or damage caused by an 
escape of water. Im satisfied the settlement offer means that QIC has met its obligation 
insofar as the damage is concerned.
I know that Mr T said he didnt ask or agree to QIC settling his claim by a cash settlement. 
But his policy, in common with many home insurance policies, allows QIC to settle a claim in 
this way. In the circumstances, given the irretrievable relationship breakdown between Mr T 
and QIC, Im persuaded it was reasonable for a cash settlement to be offered here. It follows 
that, in order to resolve this part of Mr Ts complaint, QIC should make payment of the cash 
settlement sum it offered if it hasnt already done so.
QICs cash settlement offer didnt include the cost Mr T incurred in using the drying 
equipment T installed during its initial visit. It seems, from the available information, that 
because the drying machines couldnt be collected from Mr Ts home it wasnt possible for 
QIC to determine the cost incurred in their use. 
I can see that our investigator made considerable efforts to negotiate with both parties the 
collection of the drying equipment from outside Mr Ts property. This enabled the equipment 
to be collected with minimal distress to Mr T, which happened on 15 March 2023. And this 
facilitated a settlement offer from QIC to Mr T, which reflected the cost of the energy used by 
the equipment.
I think the collection of the equipment could have occurred much sooner. Mr T had asked 
QIC to collect the dryers from outside his home before this solution was suggested by our 
investigator. Its difficult to understand why it was necessary for our investigator to have to 
mediate an arrangement between both parties. This protracted matters for Mr T and, Ive no 
doubt, caused him additional distress not knowing how and when collection of the equipment would take place. Ive taken that into account in assessing the level of compensation thats 
appropriate to resolve this complaint.
Im satisfied that once the equipment was returned to QIC it calculated the cost Mr T 
incurred in its use to dry his property. QIC states the cost was just over £303 and Ive no 
reason to doubt that calculation. QIC has agreed to reimburse that sum to Mr T and should 
do so to resolve this complaint if it hasnt already made payment to him.
I recognise that the way in which Mr Ts claim was progressed by QIC had a significant 
impact on him  for all the reasons Ive identified already. But we arent here to punish 
businesses. And, to put matters right, Id have asked QIC to make an appropriate award of 
compensation to reflect the trouble and upset caused.
I understand this situation was very distressing for Mr T. Claims for an escape of water can 
be complex and tend to take several months to resolve. It is inherent with such a claim that 
there will be stress and considerable inconvenience. Our role is to consider whether this was 
avoidable and to assess fair compensation for failings as a whole. 
Our investigator identified the same service issues I have addressed within this decision. 
They recommended that QIC pay Mr T £300 compensation to resolve this complaint. I 
appreciate that Mr T wants me to direct QIC to increase that recommendation but, based on 
the evidence Ive seen, theres nothing to persuade me that a higher compensation award is 
warranted here.
On balance, Im satisfied that our investigators compensation recommendation fairly reflects 
the trouble and upset Mr T would have been caused. Its in line with awards our service has 
made in similar circumstances and its what I would have suggested had no offer been 
made. I endorse our investigators approach here and wont be departing from. It follows that 
I wont be requiring QIC to increase the amount its already been told it should pay here. 
I understand Mr T will be disappointed with this decision. I appreciate the reasons why he 
brought this complaint to our service and I sympathise with the difficulties he found. But this 
now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Ts dispute with QIC informally, can do 
for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr T any further with this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to resolve this complaint, QIC should pay Mr T £300 in compensation. It should also 
ensure that he has been paid £303.16, which represents the cost of electricity used by the 
drying equipment, and £1720.31 for the reinstatement costs. 
As previously explained, it isnt clear whether an excess should be deducted from the 
settlement offer. If this is the case, QIC should take such action and adjust the settlement 
figure accordingly before payment to Mr T is made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. QIC Europe Ltd should resolve this 
complaint in the following way:
Paying £1720.31 to Mr T to cover the cost of reinstatement work to his property less 
any excess that may be applicable;
Paying £303.16 to Mr T to cover the cost of electricity used by the drying equipment;
Paying Mr T £300 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman