DRN-1689324
 
The complaint
Mr R and Miss S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2006. The policy was taken out to cover 
their mortgage and was in Miss Rs name only. It provided her with cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr R and Miss S didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
Mr R had access to funds and had various policies which could have been used to 
meet the mortgage repayments.
Miss S was entitled to more than 36 weeks pay from her employer if she couldn't 
work due to sickness or an accident and she was entitled to a redundancy package. 
So the PPI was unsuitable and she couldn't have made a claim.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr R and Miss Ss complaint for the following reasons:
The PPI was taken out during a meeting when Mr R and Miss S were applying to switch their 
mortgage. Whilst I cant be sure exactly what was discussed during the meeting, Barclays 
has been able to provide some of the completed paperwork. Having considered this I think 
that, overall, Barclays made Mr R and Miss S aware that the PPI was optional and that they 
chose to take it. 
The bank advised Mr R and Miss S to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
The policy was taken out in Miss S's name only. She was eligible for the policy given her 
circumstances and the terms and conditions.Miss S told the adviser at the time that she would receive 36 weeks pay from her employer if 
she couldn't work due to sickness or an accident. She recalls now that she would have 
received considerably more than this. But I don't expect her to remember now exactly what 
she would have received 14 years ago and I have relied on the information she gave at the 
time as being more accurate.  She and Mr R also told the advisor that they didn't have any 
other means of meeting their mortgage repayments if Miss S couldn't work, apart from Mr 
R's pension income. This would have covered the mortgage payment, but would have left a 
minimal amount for other expenses. The mortgage was a significant long term financial 
commitment and Mr R and Miss Ss home was at risk if they didnt keep up with the 
repayments. The PPI would have paid out for up to 24 months in the event of a successful 
claim for accident or sickness. So I think the PPI couldve been a useful benefit, in addition 
to Mr R and Miss Ss existing arrangements. It also covered Miss S if she'd become 
unemployed - in addition to any redundancy payment she might have received.
I've taken into account the other insurance policies Mr R and Miss S held. But these did not 
duplicate the protection provided by the PPI so this doesn't make a difference to my 
conclusion.
Miss S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she 
could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely she needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
The cost of the policy was given to Mr R and Miss S during the meeting. So they would 
have known that the PPI would cost them £39.95 each month before they took it out.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr R and Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Barclays  
recommendation was unsuitable and I dont think Mr R and Miss S would have made a 
different decision about taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them 
 overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R and Miss S because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R and Miss S about that. Because Barclays 
didnt tell Mr R and Miss S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr R and Miss S.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr R and Miss S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman