DRN-3203729
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a used car he acquired though a hire purchase 
agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance.
What happened
In April 2017, Mr M signed a hire purchase agreement with Audi, which enabled him to 
acquire a used car from a dealer. Nearly two years later, Mr M took the car back to the 
dealer for a service. He says he told the dealer about a problem with the gearbox, in that the 
gearbox seemed to slip or jerk, when changing between second and third gear. 
The dealer didnt make any repairs to the gearbox. Instead, the dealer completed the service 
and worked on the cars tailgate, as that part had been subject to a factory recall. When 
Mr M collected the car, he says he noticed damage to an alloy wheel and the front spoiler, 
which he says must have been caused by the dealer, during the repair of the tailgate. 
To put things right, the dealer agreed to repair the damage Mr M had noticed. But, Mr M 
complained further to the dealer, as he says the cars engine didnt feel right after the repair 
and other parts werent working as they should. He says it was at this point that he lost faith 
in the dealer. 
Around a year later, a second dealer, which like the first was accredited in the make of 
Mr Ms car, agreed to look at the cars engine. The second dealers records show that a 
knocking noise was confirmed and the engine was lifted, stripped, repaired and rebuilt. 
Mr M collected the car in March 2020, but it broke down shortly after leaving the second 
dealers workshop. Mr M complained that a pipe to the engine hadnt been connected 
properly, and that the car now had a problem with the suspension and the sunroof. Mr M 
also complained that he thought the car had been driven excessively for 200 miles, in an 
attempt for the engine to correct itself. 
After further correspondence between Mr M and Audi, Mr M complained that his car was 
faulty and that he wanted to reject it. In their final response, Audi said that the engine 
problems happened almost three years after Mr M had bought the car, and that it was 
unlikely the problems were there at the point of sale. Mr M didnt accept this and brought his 
complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and concluded that the photos Mr M 
had provided, prove there were faults with the suspension and the sunroof. She also found 
that the engine parts that the second dealer replaced shouldnt have failed, given the age of 
the car. And the investigator said that the pipe connected to the engine wasnt repaired 
correctly, which shows the lack of care given to Mr Ms car. 
The investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint and asked Audi to allow him to exit the agreement 
and refund the deposit Mr M had paid. She also asked Audi to remove any adverse 
information they had recorded about the account, with credit reference agencies and to pay 
Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Neither Mr M nor Audi accepted the investigators findings. Mr M said that he should also 
receive a refund of the repayments he made under the hire purchase agreement, as he 
hadnt had use of the car since February 2019. Audi said that the engine and gearbox faults 
were fixed under warranty and were probably not present when Mr M acquired the car. They 
also said theres no proof of the problems with the suspension or the sunroof. 
The investigator didnt change her conclusions, so Mr Ms case has been referred to me to 
make a final decision. Since then, quite some time has passed. Mr M has told us that hes 
sold the car for less than the market value, and has repaid the outstanding amount owed 
under his hire purchase agreement with Audi.
I sent Mr M and Audi my provisional decision on this case, on 3 September 2021. I explained 
why I think the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings is included 
below:
The car Audi supplied to Mr M 
Mr Ms car was supplied to him under a regulated hire purchase agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints about these sorts of agreements. Here, Audi is the supplier of 
the goods under the agreement and is responsible for dealing with a complaint about their 
quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the contract Mr M entered 
into. The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality, fit for their intended purpose, and as described. 
The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the 
standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the 
description of the goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. In a case involving 
a car, the other relevant circumstances to take into account might include things like the age 
and mileage at the time of supply, and the cars history. 
In Mr Ms case, the vehicle was a used car with a purchase price of around £43,000. It had 
covered around 4,000 miles when Mr M acquired it and was around three months old. The 
cars vehicle history form doesnt show any problems, before Mr M was given it. So, although 
the car wasnt brand new, I think it was reasonable for Mr M to have had similar 
expectations, to one that was. In other words, I think a reasonable person would expect the 
car to show very slight signs of wear and tear, but on the whole they could expect it to be 
fault free. 
The faults and repairs to the car 
Ive thought about what happened when Mr M took the car for a service in February 2019. 
This was around 22 months after he acquired the car and it had covered around 12,000 
miles since it was first registered. The cars history document show that the dealer confirmed 
the slipping between gears, which Mr M had told them about. 
I can see that the dealer repaired the parts of the car which were due under a manufacturer 
recall. But, I cannot see that any repair was made to the gearbox. Instead, the dealers notes 
show they caused damage to the car while they had it. Although I can see the dealer put 
right the damage they had caused, I dont think a further repair was made to correct the 
gearbox faults they had spotted. 
Mr M has since said that the problem with the gearbox continued until he took it to the 
second dealer. Audi have said that its unlikely the problems with the gearbox were present at the point of sale. But, Mr Ms car was only two years old when he took it for a service in 
February 2019. And the car had only covered 12,000 miles at that time. 
Both Mr M and the dealer have confirmed there was a fault with the gearbox and the dealer 
didnt indicate that the fault was down to wear and tear. Having considered everything, I 
dont think a reasonable person would say Mr Ms car was of satisfactory quality. 
Under the CRA, after thirty days from the point of sale, Audi had a responsibility to offer Mr 
M a repair to the gearbox, or a replacement car. But, this didnt happen, leaving Mr M to 
continue to use the car until March 2020, with the fault remaining. 
Like the first dealer, the second dealer was accredited by the cars manufacturer to carry out 
sales and repairs. So, Im satisfied that Mr M approached a reasonable repair garage for the 
type of car he had. Mr M says he lost faith in the first dealer, because of the damage they 
caused to the car. I think it was reasonable for Mr M to have made this decision, given his 
experiences with that dealer. 
The cars history document shows that the second dealer confirmed the knocking noise Mr 
M had noticed, in addition to the gearbox problem. The second dealer went on to repair the 
car and the records show the engine was removed, stripped, the variable valve timing (VVT) 
chain replaced and rebuilt. 
In March 2020, Mr Ms car was around three years old and had covered around 16,000 
miles. Ive considered the extent of the second dealers repair and I think the VVT chain is a 
key component of the engine, which would usually be replaced on cars with a much higher 
mileage than Mr Ms. Also, the dealers notes dont indicate that the fault with the VVT chain 
was down to expected wear and tear. 
When Mr M collected the car from the dealer in March 2020, he says it stopped working 
within a few miles. Mr M says that a pipe leading to the engine wasnt connected properly 
and when it was taken back to the dealer, it was crudely repaired with a cable tie. 
Mr M has provided photographs of the second dealers repair to the pipe and copies of 
emails sent to the dealer at the time. Mr M has also sent us details of a quote from a third 
manufacturer accredited dealer, to repair the pipe at a cost of around £850. 
I think the third dealers quote suggests the previous repair to the pipe with a cable tie was 
not an adequate, long term solution. I think Mr M has been credible and consistent in what 
hes told us about the car breaking down so soon after the repair by the second dealer. So, 
on balance, Im persuaded the dealers attempt at the repair has caused Mr M significant 
inconvenience. 
Having thought about all the evidence, I think the rebuilding of the engine was a substantial 
repair to Mr Ms car, considering the relevant circumstances, like the cars age, mileage and 
history. And I think the second dealer didnt perform an adequate repair to a pipe crucial to 
the working of the engine. This caused the car to stop working a short time after Mr M 
collected it. So, I dont think a reasonable person would say that Mr Ms car was of 
satisfactory quality. 
Ive concluded that Audi should have repaired or offered to replace Mr Ms car in February 
2019. Ive also concluded that the car needed significant repairs in March 2020, and that this 
wasnt done adequately. In all the circumstances, I think its fair that Audi should have 
allowed Mr M to reject the car and exit the hire purchase agreement, after it was taken to the 
second dealer in March 2020. I now need to decide on a fair way to resolve this part of Mr Ms complaint. I think its fair that 
Audi should rework Mr Ms hire purchase agreement as if it was ended in March 2020, at no 
additional cost to him. It then follows that Audi should refund the deposit of £4,879, which Mr 
M paid towards the car, back to him. 
Mr M has been without the use of the deposit funds since the start of the hire purchase 
agreement. So, I think Audi should also add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to the 
refunded amount, from the date it was paid, to the date when this complaint is settled. 
The sunroof and the suspension 
Weve received photographs from Mr M of the cars sunroof and suspension. He says both 
these parts have faults and shows that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr M has also 
provided commentary from a mechanic, who specialises in the make of his car, to support 
what he says. So, Ive thought carefully about Mr Ms arguments and the evidence available. 
Mr Ms photographs of the sunroof show that one of the glass panels is misaligned with the 
other. Mr M has also provided an image of how the sunroof is supposed to look, from an 
online source. The commentary from the specialist also confirms that the height of one of the 
sunroof panels appears too low. 
Turning to the evidence of a suspension fault, Im unable to conclude from the photographs 
that a problem exists. Also, I dont think the notes from the three dealers Mr M took the car 
to, support what Mr M says about a fault. The commentary from the specialist does say that 
the car is at the maximum ride height. But again, this evidence doesnt go as far as to say 
there is a fault. So, I dont think I can support what Mr M says about a fault with the 
suspension. 
Overall, I agree that the evidence provided about the sunroof, shows a fault. Given the 
circumstances of Mr Ms car, I think this adds weight to my conclusions that a reasonable 
person wouldnt say Mr Ms car was of satisfactory quality. 
The repayments under the agreement 
During his complaint with Audi, Mr M has said that he hasnt had any use of his car for a 
significant period, so he shouldnt have to make repayments for that time. Ive considered 
this further to decide if it was reasonable for Mr M to have stopped using the car. Ive also 
looked at the cars mileage records, to fairly decide how much use Mr M has had from it. 
Both Mr M and the dealer have confirmed that the car jerked when changing gear. After the 
first dealer attempted a repair, Mr M noticed a knocking sound from the engine, which was 
confirmed by the second dealer. 
When Mr M collected the car from the second dealer, he says the car broke down within a 
few miles. Ive concluded that the car wasnt fixed correctly by the second dealer in March 
2020. In addition, Mr M noticed other problems with the sunroof and the suspension. 
Having considered everything, I think Mr M had reasonable concerns about the safety of the 
car and was rightly hesitant that continuing to drive it, may have caused further damage. So, 
I think it was reasonable for Mr M to have stopped using the car in March 2020. I 
acknowledge that Mr M took the car to different garages after this date. But, I think that was 
done out of necessity to deal with his case, rather than the normal day to day use he could 
have expected. 
Ive reviewed the records of the mileage covered by the car from April 2017 to when Mr M took the car to the first dealer for repair in March 2019. Having done so, I can see that the 
car had covered around 11,000 miles, 7,000 of which were covered by Mr M. 
Similarly, Ive looked at the records to see the mileage covered until Mr M says he stopped 
using the car in March 2020. The records show that the car covered around 16,000 miles, 
which means Mr M had a further 5,000 miles of use from it. 
Although Mr M has recently given the car back to Audi, we asked him for evidence of how 
many miles the car had covered since March 2020. Mr M provided us with an invoice from a 
mechanic, dated 7 June 2021, showing the mileage to be around 17,000. 
Overall, I think Mr M had full use of the car up until March 2020, when he decided to stop 
driving it. Because of the mileage records, I dont think the car was used much after this 
date, except for the journeys Mr M made for various repairs. 
Ive concluded it was reasonable for Mr M to have stopped driving the car in March 2020, 
and that it remained largely unused until it was given back to Audi in the summer of 2021. 
Ive also found that Audi should have let Mr M reject the car in March 2020. 
In all the circumstances, I think its fair that Audi refunds the monthly repayments Mr M made 
under the hire purchase agreement from March 2020 to the date he settled his agreement. 
I also think that Mr M was without the use of the funds needed for the repayments, he made 
to Audi. So, I think Audi should also add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to the 
refunded repayments, from the date they were paid, to the date when this complaint is 
settled. 
The distress and inconvenience Mr M experienced 
Looking at the records kept by Mr M and Audi, I can see that the car has been seen by three 
separate dealerships. Each of the dealerships has assessed the faults with the car and two 
of them have carried out work, which I think has caused more inconvenience for Mr M. 
Mr M has explained that from when the initial service took place in February 2019, to when 
the second dealer returned the car to him in March 2020, he has suffered distress and worry 
about the safety of the car. Mr M also says that hes needed to arrange alternative transport 
since the second dealer returned the car, as he had lost faith in it. 
Ive concluded that Mr M didnt use the car from March 2020 onwards, and that it was 
reasonable of him to use a different vehicle. So, Im persuaded that there was an impact on 
Mr M, in that he was put to the trouble and upset of making these arrangements, while still 
being required to service the hire purchase agreement with Audi. 
I think Mr M experienced distress and inconvenience when Audi caused damage to the car, 
after the service in February 2019, and after the work was a carried out on the engine a year 
later. In all the circumstances, I think its fair that Audi pays Mr M £500, by way of 
compensation in recognition of that. 
The credit reference agency records 
Ive concluded that it was reasonable for Audi to allow Mr M to reject the car, after the 
second dealer returned it to him in March 2020. Mr M continued to pay the amounts due 
under the hire purchase agreement with Audi, until he recently sold the car. This was despite 
having to make other travel arrangements and paying the costs involved with that. I can see that throughout his complaint with Audi, Mr M has asked for the repayments to be 
suspended, but Audi didnt agree to that. I dont think its fair for Mr M to suffer an impact 
over any difficulties he may have encountered, while trying to maintain his payments for the 
hire purchase agreement, during his dispute with Audi. 
So, I think its fair that Audi remove any adverse information they have recorded about the 
hire purchase agreement, with credit reference agencies from March 2020 onwards.
Mr M responded to the provisional decision and in summary, he said:
- Keeping a car he wasnt using meant that he was forced to incur costs such as 
insurance, road tax, extended warranties and replacement tyres.
- He was forced to sell the car at between £4,000 and £5,000, below its market value.
- The stress he had been caused over a long period of time is unquantifiable.
Audi responded to the provisional decision and accepted it. They also said that Mr M repaid 
the outstanding balance of £19,632.25, to his hire purchase agreement in May 2021. They 
said they wrote to Mr M the following month to say they no longer hold a financial interest in 
the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The additional costs incurred by Mr M
Mr M has explained that he needed to keep his car insured, taxed and under warranty for the 
time he was waiting for Audi to help him. Ive concluded that it was reasonable for Mr M to 
have stopped using the car in March 2020. So, Ive considered the costs Mr M says he 
incurred from March 2020 onwards. The costs total £1,328.06 and they are:
- Car Insurance renewal on 5 May 2020  £392.29
- Car Insurance renewal on 5 May 2021  £99.54 (Mr M has already received a part 
rebate, which is why this is less than the 2020 renewal cost)
- Extended warranty bought on 30 January 2021  £476.39
- Road tax bought on 28 April 2020  £132
- Road tax bought on 29 October 2020  £132
- Road tax bought on 30 April 2021  £95.84 (Mr M has already received a part rebate, 
which is why this is less than the 2020 renewal cost)
We asked Mr M to provide evidence of the costs he says he incurred. Having looked at the 
various receipts invoices and transactions from his bank statement, Im persuaded Mr M 
incurred the costs and paid for them himself. Ive also concluded that Audi should have 
allowed Mr M to reject the car in March 2020. And Ive accepted Mr M didnt have any day to 
day use of the car from that date. Had Audi allowed Mr M to reject the car in March 2020, I 
dont think its likely Mr M would have incurred insurance, road tax and the extended 
warranty fees. So, I think its fair for Audi to refund the costs Mr M has told us about.There are some costs that Mr M asked us to consider, which I dont think would be fair to ask 
Audi to refund. Mr M says he needed to replace the tyres on the car, before he sold it and he 
bought a warranty in January 2020.
Although I accept Mr M bought the warranty only a few months before he stopped using the 
car, I think he benefitted by some of the cover it provided. And I think changing tyres on a 
car is a reasonable expense to expect over the course of a year. In all the circumstances, I 
dont think Audi needs to provide a refund for cost the 2020 warranty or the tyres.
I also think that Mr M was without the use of the funds needed to pay the fees Ive said 
should be refunded. So, I think Audi should also add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple 
to costs Ive itemised, from the date they were paid, to the date when this complaint is 
settled.
The sale of the car by Mr M
Mr M has told us he sold the car in August 2021 for £32,500. Audi have explained that Mr M 
settled the hire purchase agreement in May 2021, by paying £19,632.25. 
Mr M also says he sold the car for less than the market value. But, I dont think that matters, 
because it doesnt effect the overall settlement which Audi should pay to him.
Generally, when a customer is allowed to reject a car, because it is of unsatisfactory quality, 
the fair outcome is that the car is returned to the lender. The customer normally then 
receives a refund of the deposit, and a refund of repayments for the time the car wasnt able 
to be used. As the car has been sold, the first part of this outcome wont be possible.
So, Ive considered what would be fair in Mr Ms case. After Mr M repaid the borrowing with 
Audi, he was left with a balance of £12,867.75 from the sale of the car. Ive already 
concluded that Audi should refund Mr Ms deposit of £4,879 and fourteen repayments of 
£548.36 from March 2020 until the loan was settled in May 2021, which amounts to 
£12,556.04.
In all the circumstances, I think Mr M has already received an amount from the sale of the 
car, which is slightly greater than the deposit and the repayments Ive said Audi should 
refund. Having considered everything, I think its fair for Audi to deduct £12,867.75 from the 
total settlement Ive found they should pay to Mr M.
The distress and inconvenience
I can see from what Mr M has explained throughout his complaint that hes experienced 
inconvenience. I also accept that the impact on him has been distressing. 
Mr M needed to take his car to three different garages, he had legitimate concerns about the 
cars safety and he maintained his repayments to the agreement. Mr M also had the worry of 
sorting out an alternative means of transport.
Ive considered what hes said about the impact on him further. I agree that Audi have 
caused Mr M distress and inconvenience. But, after thinking about everything, I still think an 
award of £500 is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
For these reasons, Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance 
should: 1. rework Mr Ms hire purchase agreement as if Audi had allowed him to reject the car 
in March 2020 and had ended agreement, at no cost to him; 
2. refund the deposit of £4,879 to Mr M; 
3. refund the repayments under the hire purchase agreement from March 2020 to the 
date of settlement; 
4. refund the £1,328.06 Mr M paid for insurance, road tax and an extended warranty;
5. remove any adverse information about the hire purchase agreement, recorded with 
credit reference agencies from March 2020 to the date of settlement; 
6. add interest on the amounts in parts two, three and four of this settlement, at an 
annual rate of 8% simple from the date the payments were made, to the date of 
settlement; 
7. deduct the amount of £12,867.75 from the total settlement, in respect of the payment 
Mr M received when he sold the car; and 
8. pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Audi must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr M accepts 
my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the settlement 
amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
If Audi deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mr M, they should provide Mr M with a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman