DRN-3765980
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly reduced her 
credit card limit.
What happened
On 11 April 2022, Barclaycard wrote to Miss O letting her know that they were reducing her 
credit card limit from £8,000 to £1,700 on 13 April 2022. 
Miss O complained as she felt Barclaycard didnt provide her adequate notice of their 
decision. Since she received their letter after her credit limit was reduced, she wasnt able to 
dispute the decision. 
Barclaycard explained that they regularly review accounts and the credit limits they offer. 
They also look at how an account is being managed, as well as information provided by 
credit reference agencies. They assessed this information against their lending criteria and 
took the decision to reduce Miss Os credit limit. They said their decision couldnt be 
appealed.
Unhappy with this, Miss O referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said that the terms and conditions allowed Barclaycard to reduce 
Miss Os credit limit without giving her any notice. Miss O disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive broadly reached the same outcome as our investigator for similar 
reasons. I know Miss O will be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
Ive looked at a copy of the letter dated 11 April 2022. Barclaycard explain theyve had to 
lower how much Miss O can borrow on her credit card from £8,000 to £1,700. The letter also 
says: 
Why the change?
We want to make sure no ones borrowing more than they can comfortably afford, so 
we keep an eye on your account and check your credit limit. We look at things like 
whether youve missed any payments or been late, and we check in with Credit 
Reference Agencies.
I can see Barclaycard have given Miss O an explanation for why they decided to decrease 
her credit limit which I think is fair and reasonable. They arent obliged to give Miss O 
specific reasons or any further detail.
I appreciate Miss O may disagree with the rationale given, particularly since she says she 
has a near perfect credit score. But Barclaycard are entitled to exercise their commercial 
judgement on how to operate their business, including making decisions on their risk 
appetite and lending policies. 
Our service cant tell Barclaycard who they should lend to or indeed how much they should 
lend. A lending decision is a legitimate use of their commercial judgement which we cant 
interfere with.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Miss Os credit card account. This explains that if 
Barclaycard reduces Miss Os credit limit based on an assessment of risk or her ability to 
repay, they dont have to give any notice beforehand. But they may choose to give up to 
seven days notice if they wish.
Barclaycard reduced the credit limit two days after it sent a letter to Miss O, so a seven-day 
notice wasnt given  which they didnt have to. I appreciate that since the decrease to the 
credit limit had already been applied when Miss O received the notification letter, she 
effectively didnt have a notice period. 
But this is still in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Barclaycard dont need to 
give Miss O any notice at all before reducing her credit limit, as their reason for doing so was 
based on a risk assessment against their internal lending criteria. 
Miss O explained how the credit limit decrease has affected her. She says shes had to 
source money from elsewhere and her credit score has been damaged due to being closer 
to her credit limit. Shes also been mentally impacted by the stress caused and time spent 
dealing with this matter. 
I accept it wouldve been inconvenient for Miss O, but her credit card statement shows she 
still had some available limit to spend if she wished. While the available limit might not have 
been sufficient for Miss Os intended purchases, I think Barclaycard have acted as any 
responsible lender should.
Barclaycard reduced Miss Os credit limit based on their assessment of her ability to repay 
the borrowing comfortably in a sustainable manner and ensuring she isnt over committed. 
Ultimately, as explained, Barclaycard are entitled to make a decision on the amount of credit 
theyre willing to provide Miss O.
I dont disagree that being closer to a credit limit could potentially reduce a credit score. But 
Barclaycard have no control over how credit reference agencies calculate a credit score 
using their own scoring systems. 
In any event, given that I dont think Barclaycard have done anything wrong in how they 
dealt with Miss Os credit limit decrease, I cant fairly hold them responsible for the impact its 
had on her.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman