The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Swinton Group Ltd (Swinton) failed to cancel their breakdown 
policy when instructed.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K held car insurance and a separate breakdown policy with Swinton. They 
contacted Swinton in February 2017 to tell it they didn't want to renew their car insurance 
policy when the renewal was due at the end of the month. They also asked for their 
breakdown policy to be cancelled on the same date as their car insurance.
Mr and Mrs K thought their breakdown policy had been cancelled, but in February 2020 they 
received a renewal document in the post and realised it hadn't. So they complained.
Swinton reviewed the notes from when Mr and Mrs K had called. It said Mr and Mrs K were 
informed during the call that the breakdown cover was a separate policy and on a different 
payment schedule to their car insurance. So it wasn't able to cancel the breakdown cover as 
far in advance as the car insurance policy.
However, Swinton noted Mr and Mrs K had clearly instructed them during the call to cancel 
the policy on the same day as the car insurance. And it has since said it shouldve done 
more to arrange the cancellation of the breakdown policy for the date requested, rather than 
leave it running. So Swinton agreed to backdate cancellation of the breakdown policy to 
February 2017, and refund the premiums paid since then, plus 8% interest.
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with Swintons response. They said Swinton taking money from 
their account without their consent caused them distress and inconvenience. And that this 
had impacted them financially because they didn't have the money in their account at the 
time. So they referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She didn't think Swinton had done enough to put 
things right and said it should pay Mr and Mrs K £100 compensation. Swinton disagreed so 
the case was passed to me for an ombudsman's decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 June 2020 and outlined why I didn't intend to uphold 
the complaint. I've included these findings below:
"It isn't in dispute whether Swinton shouldve cancelled the policy back in February 2017. 
Swinton has agreed it shouldve done this and as a result it backdated the cancellation and 
refunded the premiums paid. This is line with what wouldve happened if the cancellation 
been completed when theyd asked for it to be done.
What I now have to consider is whether Swinton needs to do anything further to put things 
right, taking into account whats happened and the impact of this on Mr and Mrs K. 
DRN-2005795Mr and Mrs K have explained Swinton taking the monthly premium has impacted them 
financially and caused them distress. Mr and Mrs K have also said they didn't check their 
bank statements and weren't aware the payments were leaving their account until February
2020  some three years after they believed the policy had been cancelled.
So it follows that any distress wouldve been from the point of their realisation onwards, not 
across the entire time the policy was still in place. I understand why it may have been a 
shock for Mr and Mrs K when they realised the policy wasn't cancelled. But it seems Swinton 
settled the issue and agreed the refund around two weeks after the complaint was raised.
Taking this into account Im persuaded Swinton resolved the issue and put things right 
quickly after recognising its mistake. As a result, I can't see Mr and Mrs K suffered more 
than a minor inconvenience when they realised the breakdown policy wasn't cancelled.
Swinton paid Mr and Mrs K an additional 8% simple interest on the refunded premium, 
backdated to when the policy shouldve been cancelled. This was to reflect the fact that Mr 
and Mrs K had been deprived of the money they paid, and they didn't have access to it at 
the time. This would be in line with my thoughts had it not made this offer.
So I think Swinton has taken into account the disadvantage that Mr and Mrs K wouldve 
experienced from not having access to this money while they were still taking the premiums. 
And Ive seen nothing to suggest these additional payments caused Mr and Mrs K any 
financial detriment or impact."
And overall, while I was satisfied Swinton had made a mistake, I thought it had put things 
right for Mr and Mrs K by backdating the cancellation to February 2017 and refunding the 
premiums paid plus 8% simple interest. So I said I didn't intend to uphold the complaint or 
direct Swinton to do anything further.
I gave both parties until 12 July 2020 to respond with anything further. This time has now 
passed and I've heard nothing back from either party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, taking into account I've been provided with no information from either 
party,  I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So Im not upholding this 
complaint for the reasons I've previously given.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman