DRN-3952162
The complaint
Mr D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC prematurely reported a missed payment 
on his card and provided incorrect information about how this would impact his credit rating. 
What happened
Mr Ds bank returned a credit card payment that Tesco had claimed, and Tesco issued a 
Default Sum Notice by post and applied a £12.00 late payment fee to Mr Ds account. Tesco 
attempted to claim the payment again several days later, but this too was returned by Mr Ds 
bank. When Mr D received the Default Sum Notice, which was after the second claim had 
been attempted, he called Tesco and made the payment. Tesco told Mr D there would be no 
adverse credit information recorded as he had now made the payment due.
Mr D complained to Tesco that when he checked his credit score a late payment had been 
recorded on his file and had adversely affected his credit rating.
In its final response, Tesco said that it had correctly reported a late payment on Mr Ds credit 
card as his account was in arrears when it issued his next statement. As a gesture of 
goodwill, Tesco refunded the £12.00 late payment charge it applied when the second 
payment failed. Tesco confirmed it had paid Mr D £50 when hed complained that Tesco had 
only notified him of the missed payment by post at a time when there was a postal strike. 
Tesco apologised and accepted that during several calls with its agents, Mr D had been 
provided incorrect information about its processes and that in some of the calls its agents 
could have provided a better customer service. Tesco confirmed it had paid Mr D and 
additional amount of £110.00 (£35 and £65) into an account nominated by Mr D to remedy 
this and that it had provided feedback to the agents involved.
Mr D brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that the apology and remedy paid 
by Tesco was a fair and reasonable one. Mr D didnt agree and asked that an Ombudsman 
decide the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr D will be disappointed, but Ive decided that Tesco doesnt need to do 
anything else to settle this complaint. I will now explain why.
Tesco attempted to collect the minimum credit card payment due on Mr Ds November 
statement, but it was rejected by Mr Ds bank. Ive considered all of the comments Mr D has 
made in this regard, but I think its more likely than not the payment was declined because of 
insufficient funds. I understand Mr D has raised this with his bank, but regardless of this the 
November payment wasnt made by Mr D until December. I would expect Tesco to tell Mr D 
that a payment had been missed and it did so in writing on 21 November. Its unfortunate 
that there was likely disruption to the post at this time. Tesco attempted to collect the 
November payment again, but it was declined by Mr Ds bank.
Mr D has strong views that Tesco shouldve done more to make him aware that the initial 
attempt to collect the payment had failed. He says that if he had known the payment hadnt 
been received, he would have paid it earlier than he did. Whilst I empathise with Mr D and 
acknowledge that he may have had funds elsewhere to make the payment due, I dont think 
Tesco acted unreasonably at this time. Tesco sent out a written notice of the Default Sum 
when the initial payment was missed and later attempted to contact him by telephone. 
Although there are no recordings of the calls, I think its more likely than not this is because 
the calls didnt connect. Although Mr D didnt have on-line access to his Tesco credit card at 
the time its his responsibility to ensure payments due are made on time, and he could 
reasonably have done this by checking his bank account.
Mr D says he contacted Tesco when he received the Default Sum Notice in early December 
and made the payment. But I dont think Tesco acted unreasonably in recording the missed 
payment for November or that it reported the missed payment to the Credit Reference 
Agencies. Ive noted that as a gesture of goodwill, Tesco refunded the £12.00 late payment 
fee it had charged Mr D for the second missed payment and paid Mr D £50.00 to reflect he 
only received a written notice of the missed payment by letter. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable remedy in the circumstances for this part of the complaint and I dont think Tesco 
needs to do anything else in this regard.
Tesco accepts that its agents shouldnt have told Mr D that a missed payment would have 
no impact on his credit file. Tesco also accepts that in calls with other agents, the service it 
provided was poor  calls were placed on hold for long periods, return calls that were 
promised didnt happen and that a manager was unavailable to speak with Mr D. So, as 
Tesco has accepted it provided a poor service, I will only consider whether the remedy its 
already paid Mr D is a fair and reasonable one.
Mr D had to call Tesco several times to clarify why it had reported the missed payment to the 
Credit Reference Agencies when an agent had told him the missed payment wouldnt be 
reported or have an impact his credit rating. This would have been frustrating for Mr D, but 
Tesco apologised and paid Mr D an amount I consider is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint - it reflects the upset and inconvenience these calls caused 
Mr D. The information Tesco provided Mr D was incorrect, and that isnt disputed, but Im 
satisfied Tesco acted reasonably when reporting the late payment to the Credit Reference 
Agencies. The poor service here is that an agent told Mr D it wouldnt be reported or impact 
his credit rating, and this was incorrect. Tescos terms and conditions explain to Mr D that if 
he missed a payment his credit score could be affected. Although what the agent told Mr D 
was incorrect, Im satisfied Tesco was correct in the way it applied its terms and conditions. 
The feedback Tesco has provided to the agents involved should help it improve the service 
they provide. So, I dont think Tesco needs to do anything else in this regard.
My final decision
Ive decided that remedy already completed by Tesco Personal Finance PLC is a fair and 
reasonable one to resolve Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman