DRN-3185820
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund all the money hes lost 
to a scam.
What happened
Mr B saw a private advert for a vehicle on a well-known online marketplace. He contacted 
the seller directly via email and the seller agreed he would sell the car for £10,550. The 
seller provided Mr B with an email that he claimed linked to an account with an online 
payment system.
On 8 September 2020, Mr B visited his local NatWest branch and transferred £10,550 to the 
account details the seller had given him. On 15 September 2020, Mr B realised hed fallen 
victim to a scam when he didnt receive the vehicle and raised a fraud claim with NatWest. 
NatWest was unable to recover the funds. The case was considered under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM or the Code) and NatWest decided to refund Mr B 
£5,275. This was on the basis that it considered Mr B failed to carry out sufficient checks 
before making the payment. 
Mr B is unhappy NatWest has only refunded him half of his loss. He says that, as his
bank, NatWest shouldve looked out for him and made sure he wouldnt fall victim to a scam.
He believes they have treated him harshly. Mr B has explained that the scam has had a 
detrimental impact on his mental health.
Our investigator thought that Mr B didnt carry out any due diligence. She said that 
NatWest did not need to do any more under the provisions of the CRM Code because Mr 
B made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that he was paying a 
legitimate person.
I issued my provisional decision on  24 March 2022 explaining why I was reaching the 
same overall outcome as the investigator but explained my reasoning in more detail. 
Neither party has anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness, I 
have set this out below.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
NatWest is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment scams, like the one Mr B has fallen 
victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances.
One such circumstance might be when a customer has ignored an effective warning. 
NatWest has refunded 50% of Mr Bs loss  so although it hasnt explicitly stated this - I take 
this means NatWest feels it didnt provide an effective warning to Mr B; accepting that it 
ought to have done more and recognising that means it bears some responsibility for Mr Bs 
loss. As NatWest has provided a partial refund to reflect this - there is no need for me to 
consider point this further.
A second circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is, if it can be demonstrated 
that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
  the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; 
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
In considering these points, account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the case, 
including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam. So, Ive 
considered what steps Mr B took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the individual 
selling the vehicle and whether it was reasonable for him to proceed with the payment.
Mr B saw photos of the car during his email exchange with the scammer and although I 
cant see Mr B specifically asked, the seller appeared willing for Mr B to view the car in 
person on his return from offshore in another seven weeks. Although the seller anticipated 
that the vehicle might have been sold by then as he had received tons of message and 
lots of offers. Despite these numerous offers  the seller was happy to consider sensible 
offers on the asking price from Mr B.
Mr B had lots of communication with the seller but considering the cars age, mileage and 
condition, the price seems low to me. Looking at similar models and makes in the market 
at the time  I think the vehicle being sold to Mr B was under the retail value by about 
50%. The seller even included delivery. Mr B confirmed to our investigator that it was a 
fantastic deal. I find that the price itself was too good to be true from the outset - to the 
extent that it ought to have raised significant doubt in Mr Bs mind.
And here it also seems, Mr B was persuaded not to make the purchase through the usual 
secure checkout process. Ive also seen evidence which indicates that Mr B had some 
reservations with the payment method but proceeded with the payment regardless. Given 
the reservations Mr B had about paying the seller via bank transfer, I wouldve expected 
Mr B to have been more wary of caution. But, by his own admission, Mr B didnt carry out 
any checks on the vehicle himself or make any substantial attempts to protect himself as I 
wouldve expected him to do  such as, for example, taking steps to research the seller or 
verify they were genuine. 
The email sent to Mr B with link for payment contained a confidentiality and non-disclosure 
agreement which advised not to disclose any information related to the purchase to any 
third parties ie your bank or to give the actual reason for the bank transfer.. It also had the 
account number and sort code the wrong way around  something Mr B noticed at the time 
as he replied to the email sender specifically regarding this. So, Mr B was told not to tell the bank what the payment was for and there were obvious errors in the email. This ought to 
have raised further suspicions in Mr Bs mind - a legitimate business or seller is highly 
unlikely to advise a potential customer to deceive the bank  it simply wouldnt be necessary.
Mr B went ahead and made the payment despite all of these red flags. Under the CRM 
Code where a business has failed to provide an effective warning, but the customer hasnt 
met the requisite level of care, each party must accept equal responsibility. In these 
situations, the CRM Code requires the payment service provider to reimburse 50% of the 
losses  which is what NatWest has done. 
But Mr B says the red flags meant nothing in his mental state and most of it is a blur. 
Its not clear if Mr B is referring to his situation as a vulnerability but the CRM Code talks 
about customers being reimbursed in full, despite exceptions (such that I have outlined 
above) applying, if the individual was vulnerable to the extent that they were unable to 
protect themselves from the scam. So, I have also considered what the CRM Code says 
about vulnerability and when it might lead to a full refund, even if Mr B hasnt met his 
requisite level of care.
In response to the investigators view Mr B provided details about his circumstances at the 
time, which he feels should be taken into account. From the information Mr B has provided 
to us, its clear that he was experiencing a particularly difficult time in his personal life 
when he fell victim to the scam. He says he has had health struggles since July 2020 
when he contracted Covid and was left with long Covid brain fog and he has experienced 
anxiety attacks. He was also trying to come to terms with difficult news over the preceding 
months, including his mother passing away and separating from his long-term partner. He 
was dealing with things on his own, without any support from family or friends  apart from 
his father who was abroad. 
Im sorry to hear of all Mr B has been through. Not just in terms of this scam, but also 
whats happened to him in the months prior to the scam. Ive no doubt that Mr B has been 
through a lot and I dont doubt that his mental health has suffered as a result. And no 
doubt the scam has impacted him further. 
Turning to the relevant part of the Code, it says: 
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. This should be 
assessed on a case-by-case basis.
So Ive considered whether there are vulnerabilities present to such an extent that Mr B 
was unable to take steps to identify the scam he fell victim to or to recognise steps he 
might take to test the legitimacy of what he was being told by the fraudster. To do so I 
must consider the details of the scam, Mr Bs actions throughout, and the wider 
circumstances of what was happening in Mr Bs life at the time. 
I dont doubt Mr Bs struggles with his mental and physical health or how it affects him, 
and I dont question his brain fog and anxiety. I can see he did say in one email to the 
scammer that he would be less anxious if the transaction could be made in the way he 
suggested to the scammer. But there is also evidence within the circumstances that 
suggest Mr B was capable of taking steps to protect himself from fraud and financial harm. 
That is to say there was more he might reasonably have done that would have led to the 
scam being uncovered. Mr B wanted to purchase a car  a decision he proactively made. He found the advert on 
an online marketplace with which he was familiar and previously made purchases through 
the formal checkout process. On this occasion Mr B made the purchase outside the 
normal checkout process and several emails were exchanged (outside the online 
marketplace forum) between Mr B and the scammer. This was over a period of a number 
of days. So, there was no cold call and Mr B would have had time between emails to 
reflect on the purchase. He wasnt, in my view, under immediate pressure to proceed with 
the purchase. 
During the initial call with NatWest Mr B on 15 September 2020, and during the follow up call 
on 24 September 2020, Mr B told the agents he was very streetwise and that he couldnt 
believe hed fallen for this scam. This does paint a very different picture to someone that is 
vulnerable  to the extent that they couldnt protect themselves against a scam like this. 
Having thought very carefully about everything Mr B has told me, whilst Im not saying his 
anxiety had no impact on him at the time, Im not persuaded that it would be unreasonable 
to expect Mr B to have protected himself against the particular scam he fell victim to. And 
so I dont find that NatWest need refund Mr Bs entire loss under the vulnerability clause of 
the code.
Finally, Ive considered whether NatWest took reasonable steps to recover Mr Bs funds, 
and I think it did. The scam payment was made on 8 September 2020 and the scam was 
reported on 15 September 2020 - a week later. Its evidenced that it contacted the 
receiving bank on the same day that Mr B reported the fraud to it, but no funds have been 
returned. Any recovery action was most unlikely to be successful as scammers usually 
remove funds within hours. Im not persuaded that NatWest couldve taken any further 
action that wouldve led to the recovery of Mr Bs funds.
I realise my decision will be a significant disappointment to Mr B. I do accept he has fallen 
victim to what can only be described as a cruel and callous scam. Im sorry he has lost 
money and I can understand why he would like to be compensated for all his losses. 
However, despite my natural sympathy for the situation he finds himself in ultimately, I dont 
think he had a reasonable basis for belief. It therefore follows that I dont think that 
NatWests refusal to reimburse Mr B the other 50% of his losses was unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022. 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman