DRN-1726670
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) should return the fees she paid for a 
packaged bank account following a product migration in December 2015.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. The 
facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
1. Barclays has accepted it mis-sold the original First Additions account in 2005 
following Mrs Ds complaint that she didnt speak English at the time and didnt 
understand her options or what she was buying.
2. Barclays has provided evidence that in 2014 Mrs Ds English skills were so poor she 
had to ask a relative to contact the bank of her behalf to do something on her 
account. 
3. Barclays has a record which says that Mrs D struggled to communicate with its staff 
while her complaint was being investigated in 2019. 
4. I note Barclays submissions that she had taken out two loans before 2015. However, 
due to the evidence from 2014 above, I think its likely she had assistance to take out 
the loans.
5. So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs Ds English hadnt improved enough for 
her to properly understand the letter communications she received that outlined her 
options in 2015, and so she lost out.
For these reasons my decision is to uphold Mrs Ds complaint and require Barclays to put
things right as follows.
Putting things right
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to: 
Pay Mrs D the amount she paid each month for her packaged bank account from 
December 2015 until it closed.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs D has saved money because of a better rate on an overdraft or loan by having the 
packaged account and Barclays can show exactly how much Mrs D has saved, it may 
deduct these savings from the amount it pays her  but only after it has calculated the 
two points above. Barclays must explain clearly and simply to Mrs D how it has worked 
out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give
Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to put things right as Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman