DRN-3207548
The complaint
Mr L complains about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Ltd (AA) dealt with things 
when another driver said he had hit their car.
What happened
Mr L had motor insurance underwritten by AA. He was contacted by AA who said another 
drivers insurance company was claiming against Mr Ls insurance, saying hed hit their car 
in a car park. The other driver wasnt in the car at the time of the alleged incident, but said a 
witness had given them Mr Ls registration number. Mr L contacted AA and said he was 
unaware of any incident and there was no damage to his car. Mr L says he invited AA to 
inspect his car, but it declined, instead asking him to send pictures. Mr L sent AA pictures of 
his car showing no corresponding damage. 
Mr L said he contacted AA several times, asking what was happening, but AA just said there 
was no evidence from the other driver so it was unable to progress things.
Some months later AA arranged for an engineer to inspect Mr Ls car. The engineer said 
there was a small amount of damage to the front bumper of Mr Ls car. However he said:
The damage found to the third party vehicle is not of a similar height or profile to the 
damage found to the insured vehicle. From the information made available I can find no 
clear evidence the vehicles have made contact.
AA sent this report to the other drivers insurer for comment, but said while the matter was 
under investigation it couldnt remove the claim from Mr Ls policy details.
When AA sent Mr L a renewal notice for his insurance the premiums had increased, and the 
documents showed the disputed incident as Insured strikes parked TP vehicle (FAULT).
Mr L said AA told him it had added details of the incident to the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE). CUE is a database of motor, home, personal injury and travel insurance 
claims/incidents. Most insurers are signed up to CUE. If an insurer is signed up to CUE, it 
will make a record of any incident its made aware of whether it leads to a claim or not. 
Insurers can view the information on CUE when considering offering a policy to a consumer. 
Mr L asked AA for a copy of the entry and for it to be removed as it was incorrect. He says 
AA refused.
About eight months after the alleged incident, AA sent Mr L an email which said: 
We write to advise that the Third-Partys representatives have confirmed that they have 
redirected their claim and we will now remove the file.
However, when Mr L later took out insurance with another company, he was told the entry 
was still on CUE and was charged an extra £64.72.
Mr L complained to AA but had no reply, so he complained to this service. Our investigator 
contacted AA and asked for confirmation that the alleged incident had been removed from 
Mr Ls records on CUE. However, AA came back and said it was recorded as Claim closed. 
The investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint and said AA should pay him £200 for his distress 
and inconvenience, pay him any additional premium he paid as a result of the claim record 
on CUE, and remove the claim from any internal and external databases, confirming to Mr L 
in writing that it had done so. 
AA agreed to do this. However, a couple of months later, Mr L contacted the investigator to 
say AA had paid him the £200 but hadnt done the other things. Mr L said he had incurred a 
further extra cost at the renewal of his insurance as the alleged incident was still recorded on 
CUE. In response, AA said the incident was correctly recorded as non-fault on CUE, and Mr 
L would need to chase his insurance broker about the refund.
The investigator pointed out to AA that it had already agreed to remove the claim from all 
databases, confirm this to Mr L, and refund any additional premiums. AA said it had asked 
for the CUE entry to be removed, but said the claim didnt feature on its renewal documents 
so no refund was due. After further discussions, AA agreed to refund Mr L £44.92, which it 
said was a 10% basic premium refund, and would work to get the CUE entry removed. 
Mr L wasnt happy with this so the investigator said AA should show what Mr Ls premium 
would have been had the claim not been open at the time of his renewal with AA, and 
calculate the difference between this and what he actually paid. If this was more than the 
£44.92 already refunded, AA should pay Mr L the difference. The investigator said AA 
should refund the extra £64.72 Mr L had to pay when he renewed with the other insurer. The 
investigator also said AA should confirm to Mr L in writing that the erroneous entry on CUE 
had been removed, and pay Mr L a further £150 compensation.
Following this, Mr L contacted the investigator to say hed had an email from AA confirming 
the CUE database entry had been removed. However, he said hed not received the 
promised £44.92. He said he thought £500 would cover his losses.
AA didnt respond to say whether or not it agreed to do what the investigator asked, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ls insurance policy said:
Subsection 4
(b) The Insurer will be entitled to take over and conduct at the Insurers expense in Your 
name or in the name of any other person insured by this Insurance Document:
(i) the negotiation settlement or defence of any claim. 
However, I would still expect AA to act fairly and reasonably in dealing with any such claim.
Mr L says he provided all the information AA needed to decide he wasnt involved in the 
incident right away. He also suggested AA should inspect the car. AA did arrange for an 
engineers inspection, but this didnt happen until some six months after the alleged incident. I can see from the claim records AA provided that it didnt proactively chase the other 
drivers insurer for information such as a statement from the supposed witness. AA also 
didnt keep Mr L updated with what was happening. Even when Mr L complained to this 
service, AA didnt act promptly to correct the CUE entry. AA havent replied to the 
investigators latest attempt to resolve things. The alleged incident happened some two and 
a half years ago and the matter is still not resolved. I dont think this is reasonable.
However, AA has now confirmed to Mr L and to this service that the entry has been removed 
from the CUE database.
Mr L has provided proof of the extra £64.72 he had to pay the other insurer once it became 
aware of the entry on CUE. AA agreed to pay any additional premiums but hasnt done so. I 
think AA should pay this, and also any additional premium Mr L paid when he renewed with 
AA.
Mr L has already received £200 compensation from AA in recognition of its shortcomings in 
dealing with the claim. Our investigator said AA should pay him a further £150. I think this is 
a fair and reasonable reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ls complaint is upheld. 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must
pay Mr L £150 in recognition of the further distress and inconvenience it caused him 
by not settling his complaint as agreed;
calculate what Mr Ls renewal premium would have been with it had the open claim 
not been recorded against his name, and refund any difference between this and 
what he actually paid;
pay Mr L £64.72 for the extra premium he had to pay with the new insurer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman