DRN-3592458
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) registered a fraud prevention 
marker against him.
Background
In August 2018, Mr S account received three separate payments, totalling an amount of 
£2,415.00, into his account. £2,340.00 of these funds were immediately withdrawn in cash 
and the remaining funds were spent via debit card transactions. 
Barclays subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for 
sending the payments to Mr S account stating the payee of the funds had reported being a 
victim of fraud. Barclays reviewed Mr S account and as a result of its investigation, it 
decided to close Mr S account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr S complained that it had been applied 
unfairly. Barclays didnt uphold Mr S complaint. As Mr S remained dissatisfied, Mr S referred 
the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. He didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr S account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr S was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr S allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr S complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr S account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr S 
account in August 2018, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr S was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Upon being questioned by our adjudicator, Mr S said that he didnt know anything about the 
transactions which took place on his account. He said he left the United Kingdom (U.K) for 
ten months in August 2018 and only later found out about the activity which took place on his 
account and led to its closure. Mr S said that he left his card at a friends house and asked 
his mother to pick it up but she was unable to. This was after he initially said that he took the 
card abroad with him but didnt give his Personal Identification Number (PIN) to anyone 
else.  
Ive thought about what Mr S has said. But Im afraid that Ive not been persuaded by his 
version of events for a number of reasons. To start with, Ive considered the evidence Mr S 
has provided to demonstrate that he wasnt in the U.K when the fraudulent activity took 
place. I accept that the evidence provided does show that Mr S arrived abroad in              
August 2018. But nonetheless this was still a couple of days after the activity in question 
took place on his account. So Im satisfied that Mr S hasnt clearly demonstrated that he was 
outside the U.K at the time the fraudulent funds arrived in his account and were withdrawn.
Secondly, even if I were persuaded that Mr S left his card with his friend, for the sake of 
completeness Id point out Im not entirely persuaded this is the case given Mr S himself isnt 
clear on this, Mr S has said he didnt share his PIN with anyone. I dont see how someone 
would have been able to withdraw the funds from Mr S account without him having shared 
such details  especially as the larger withdrawals were made in branch and would have 
needed more than just Mr S PIN.
Thirdly, Barclays has shown that there were logins to Mr S mobile banking before the 
fraudulent funds entered Mr S account and just afterwards. This pattern is indictive of 
someone expecting funds to arrive. I dont see how someone would have been able to log 
into Mr S mobile banking in this way, given Mr S has said he never shared his details with 
anyone and these would have been needed for access.
Finally, there are also card purchases on Mr S account after the fraud took place which are 
typical of the usual activity on Mr S account. Crucially, these also appear to have been 
made before Mr S left the U.K. So Im simply not persuaded that the available evidence 
supports that the activity took place while Mr S was outside of the U.K or more importantly 
that it took place without his co-operation. 
Im afraid that the available evidence failing to support what Mr S has said and him being 
unable to provide anything to corroborate what, at face value, appears an implausible 
version of events means that I cant reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not he was complicit in his account receiving 
fraudulent funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Barclays did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr S account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr S was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Barclays to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did and Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S  especially given what hes said about 
the effect the marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him. 
Furthermore, Mr S might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman