DRN-3987450
The complaint
I, a limited company, and its director, Mr D, complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt 
hold him not a fault following a claim made on his commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ds van was involved in an incident with another driver who was uninsured and had no 
MOT. UKI identified the driver, but he didnt co-operate with its investigation. There was little 
available evidence. So UKI decided that it couldnt prove that the accident was entirely the 
other drivers fault. So it settled the claim as 50/50 split liability. 
Mr D was unhappy with this as this meant that the uninsured driver promise wouldnt apply. 
UKI said Mr Ds No Claims Discount (NCD) would be unaffected and he should apply to the 
Motor Insurers Board (MIB) to recover his policy excess. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had reasonably assessed the claim and decided liability in keeping with the policys terms 
and conditions. She thought it hadnt been able to recover its outlay, so the 50/50 decision 
was fair and reasonable. She thought that the other drivers lack of insurance or MOT didnt 
show that he was fully at fault. She thought UKI need not do anything further. 
Mr D replied that the other drivers car had been seized by the police. He said the location of 
the accident showed that the uninsured driver must have been at fault. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr D feels frustrated that he must suffer the consequences of an 
uninsured drivers actions. But the fact that he was uninsured and had no MOT doesnt 
mean that he should automatically be held at fault for the accident. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. I can see that Mr Ds policy 
contains an uninsured drivers promise. This states that where the consumer is involved in a 
non-fault accident with an uninsured driver, UKI will repay the excess, restore the NCD and 
restore any extra premium paid. 
But in Mr Ds case, UKI has been unable to confirm that the uninsured driver was fully as 
fault since there was no independent evidence and the uninsured driver hasn't accepted 
liability. Since UKI is unable to close a claim as non-fault until it has recovered its outlay, I 
can't say that UKI has acted outside of the relevant regulations or the policys terms and 
conditions. So Im satisfied that the uninsured driver promise doesnt apply.
Mr D questioned UKIs decision about liability. The Investigator has already explained that it 
isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the 
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer 
made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mr D the same as someone else in his 
position. 
UKI is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr D to take over, defend, or 
settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr D has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. 
That said, we expect a business to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision about liability. 
The evidence that UKI had to consider was Mr Ds version of events and the location of the 
accident. The other driver didnt respond to its request for information and so UKI didnt have an 
admission of liability to consider. UKI also contacted the police, but it didnt provide any evidence 
about the cause of the accident for UKI to consider. So UKI thought the best possible outcome 
would be a 50/50 liability settlement. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances as UKI had 
considered the limited evidence available. 
UKI said the liability decision wouldnt affect Mr Ds NCD, and I think that was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. And I think UKI also correctly directed Mr D to contact the MIB to try and 
recover his policy excess. So Im satisfied that UKI acted fairly and reasonably, and I dont require 
it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman