DRN-3296500
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance closed and defaulted his loan account despite applying for a payment holiday. 
What happened
Mr S had a loan with Barclays and missed a payment in February 2018. The account 
remained in arrears from that time. On 31 March 2021 Mr S spoke with Barclays and 
explained hed lost work due to the pandemic. Mr S asked Barclays to agree a payment 
holiday but declined. Barclays said that Mr S didnt qualify because his account was already 
in arrears. Barclays agreed a payment hold of 30 days. 
Barclays says it sent Mr S a default notice on 1 May 2020 but hes told us it wasnt received. 
Barclays contact notes say Mr S called in again on 9 May 2020 after receiving its default 
notice and complained about the decision not to approve the payment holiday. The contact 
notes say Barclays confirmed no payment holiday was in place. 
The loan was closed and a default recorded on Mr S credit file on 2 June 2020. 
After Mr S complained again, Barclays sent him a final response. Barclays said Mr S didnt 
qualify for the payment holiday in March 2020 when he applied. Barclays didnt agree it had 
acted unfairly when closing and defaulting Mr S loan. But Barclays apologised for the delay 
in responding to Mr S complaint and paid him £100. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Barclays had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S asked 
to appeal and reiterated that he hadnt received Barclays default notice in May 2020 and 
didnt agree the decision to close his loan was fair. As Mr S asked to appeal, his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) introduced its Payment Deferral Guidance in April 
2020. The guidance said businesses could offer payment holidays where consumers were 
impacted by the pandemic. But the guidance confirmed a payment holiday wasnt 
appropriate for all consumers and that where there was existing financial difficulties a 
business should consider whether it was the right option for them. So whilst I understand Mr 
S income was impacted by the pandemic, the guidance didnt automatically require Barclays 
to approve a payment holiday. 
Barclays has pointed to a missed payment that remained outstanding on Mr S loan from 
March 2018. Barclays says this shows Mr S was in longer term financial difficulties so didnt 
qualify for a payment holiday. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but Im satisfied that was a 
reasonable decision for Barclays to make. I havent been persuaded that Barclays decision 
to decline Mr S payment holiday was unfair. 
Mr S has explained he didnt receive Barclays default notice dated 1 May 2020 and that he 
doesnt think its fair to rely on systems information to show it was sent. Where information is 
incomplete or disputed by the parties involved, Ill base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have occurred based on all the available 
evidence and information. 
In this case, Barclays has sent us a copy of its default notice dated 1 May 2020. I can see 
its addressed in line with the information weve been given by Mr S in his complaint 
submission. Barclays has also provided a note from its correspondence system that shows a 
default notice was sent on 1 May 2020. Ive looked at Barclays contact notes that show 
phone calls it had with Mr S. They show Mr S spoke with Barclays on 9 May 2020 and 
complained about receiving a default notice after applying for a payment holiday. 
Having taken all the available information into account, Im satisfied Barclays did send Mr S 
the default notice on 1 May 2020 as it claims and that it was most likely received. I havent 
found that Barclays decision to close Mr S loan and record a default on his credit file was 
unfair. 
Barclays paid Mr S £100 for delays in dealing with his complaint. Im satisfied £100 fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S by Barclays delay so Im not telling it 
to take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint because Barclays has already paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman