DRN-2955112
The complaint
 Mr C has complained that Everyday Loans Limited (ELL) irresponsibly lent him two loans. 
 
What happened
In August 2019 ELL agreed a £1,500 loan to Mr C. This was due to be repaid over 18 
months with a monthly repayment of £144.25. This loan was repaid in full in late September 
2019 and Mr C was subsequently given another loan for £1,500 in late October 2019. This 
second loan was due to be repaid over 24 months with a monthly repayment of £122.81. 
Mr C has said these loans were given irresponsibly. Hes said he had a significant gambling 
problem which was clear from his bank statements and that he had an adverse credit history 
including payday lending, other high cost credit lending, missed payments and defaults. 
Mr C has said that had ELL completed proportionate checks it wouldve seen he couldnt 
have afforded to repay the lending.  
In response to his complaint ELL disagreed it had lent irresponsibly, stating its checks were 
reasonable and proportionate. ELL said that after taking into consideration his income and 
ONS data on regular expenditure it calculated that Mr C had sufficient disposable income to 
repay both loans. It also said that this took into account how much Mr C had spent on 
gambling in the month prior to each loan. 
One of our investigators has considered the complaint upheld it. He felt that based on the 
information ELL had available at the time of lending, it shouldve realised that Mr C couldnt 
have sustainably afforded to repay each loan and that it was irresponsible to lend to him. 
ELL didnt agree with this and it again argued that the amounts Mr C was spending on 
gambling were within the disposable income it had calculated. It also argued that the 
defaults on Mr Cs credit file were historic and that loan two was used to pay off his credit 
card and payday loan defaults.
As ELL didnt agree with our investigators assessment the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Mr Cs complaint.
The rules and regulations in place at the time of this lending required EEL to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to determine whether Mr C could afford to repay the 
lending in a sustainable manner. The checks needed to be borrower focused, so ELL 
needed to think about whether repaying the credit sustainably wouldve caused difficulties or 
adverse consequences for Mr C. 
What constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of 
factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower (such as 
their financial history including with the lender in question, current situation and outlook, and 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit 
they are seeking.
At the time of agreeing Mr Cs first loan I can see ELL had completed a credit search, had a 
copy of Mr Cs recent current account statement for July 2019 and had his payslip for August 
2019. Looking at Mr Cs payslip I can see he was paid £1,944.11 in August and his bank 
statement showed he was paid £1,867.18 in July 2019. His bank statement also shows that 
upon being paid Mr C made payments totalling just under £1,500 in several transactions to a 
family member and a friend. Hes said that at this time he had been borrowing from friends 
and family to repay credit or to fund gambling. And so after being paid it looks as though 
large parts of his wages were already committed to repaying money owed. Mr Cs 
statements also show around 40 separate gambling transactions in July 2019 which ELL has 
calculated as totalling over £500.
Looking at the credit search results ELL has provided, I can see that at the time of agreeing 
loan one Mr C had two payday loans defaults totalling £509 and a communications supplier 
default for £339. Mr C also had £148 outstanding on a credit card and was making reduced 
payments towards all these accounts. I appreciate as ELL has said, that these were historic 
defaults. However, despite the length of time since the defaults, these were still outstanding 
credit commitments and it was clear he was only making reduced or minimum payments 
towards these accounts. 
As part of completing a reasonable and proportionate check before agreeing to lend, ELL 
needed to respond appropriately to the information it gathered about Mr Cs circumstances. 
Having considered the information ELL had available before agreeing loan one, I dont think 
it did this. I think ELL had sufficient information to demonstrate that Mr C couldnt have 
afforded to repay this lending in a sustainably way. His circumstances demonstrated a 
reliance on borrowing with sums owed to friends and family, outstanding balances on 
defaulted accounts and evidence of reduced payments being made. Mr C has also said his 
gambling had caused a great deal of his credit problems and ELL was on notice that hed 
spent a significant amount on gambling, which was spread over a large volume of gambling 
transactions. I think it shouldve been clear from the information ELL had that Mr C couldnt 
have afforded to sustainably repay this loan and ELL shouldnt have agreed it.
Turning to Mr Cs second loan, I also dont think ELL shouldve agreed this loan for largely 
similar reasons to loan one. I dont think ELL completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks (responding appropriately to the information provided) before agreeing to lend. And I 
think it shouldve been clear to ELL based on the information it had available, that Mr C 
couldnt have afforded to repay this loan in a sustainable way. 
Looking at Mr Cs contact notes I can see that just under a month after taking loan one he 
contacted ELL for further lending. Mr C was told his existing loan needed to be in place for 
six months before ELL would consider a further advance and so shortly after this Mr C 
repaid loan one in full. Mr C has said he was only able to do this with help from family. I can 
see from his contact notes that just over a week after loan one was repaid Mr C returned and 
applied for another loan in early October 2019. Mr C has said was declined due to the 
amount of gambling transactions on his statements. He said he was told to return a month 
later with a month of bank statements without gambling. Mr C has said this conversation 
took place in branch. I cant know what was discussed at this time. However, given Mr C 
came back so quickly, both for a further advance on his first loan and then a subsequent loan after loan one had been repaid, this shouldve also indicated to ELL that these were 
signs that Mr C was relying heavily on credit. 
At the end of October 2019, ELL agreed Mr Cs second loan. At this time, ELL had a copy of 
Mr Cs October bank statement (up until 29 October) and a copy of his wage slip for October 
showing he earnt £1,617.75. I can see that immediately after being paid, Mr C transferred 
£910 to a family member showing hes still indebted to family. ELL has said the purpose of 
this loan was for Mr C to repay his defaulted payday loans and credit card balance. 
However, this still left an outstanding balance to his communications supplier where he was 
making reduced payments and his current account behaviour showed he was still repaying a 
family member. 
ELL is right to point out that there is a significantly less gambling detailed Mr Cs October 
statement and Mr C has said that, based on the previous conversation he said took place 
with ELL, he tried to disguise these transactions (using things like money wallets). However, 
its clear from his August loan application that ELL was on notice that Mr C had been 
gambling heavily prior to taking out this loan. Mr Cs October statement and credit check 
results also show Mr C had other current accounts which he was making transfers into. So, I 
think if ELL had thought holistically about Mr Cs wider circumstances, it wouldve seen that 
Mr Cs circumstances hadnt significantly changed and he didnt have capacity to take on 
further lending. So I dont think ELL shouldve agreed this loan. 
I can see that before agreeing both loans ELL has said it used ONS data to calculate Mr Cs 
average expenditure. However, ELL also had copies of Mr Cs bank statements for the 
month prior to each loan. I therefore dont consider it was reasonable for ELL to rely on ONS 
averages when it had information about Mr Cs actual expenditure. 
Putting things right
  As I dont think that ELL should have agreed to lend Mr C either of the two loans in 
question, ELL should:
refund all the interest and charges Mr C paid on loan one 
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan two and treat all the 
payments Mr C made towards this loan as payments towards the capital. If reworking 
Mr Cs account as Ive directed results in Mr C effectively having made payments 
above the original capital borrowed for this loan, then ELL should refund these 
overpayments
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to both 
loans
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Everyday Loans Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021. 
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
