DRN-3764697
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
failed to action his instruction to stop paying adviser charge from his pension plan. He would 
like the charge refunded and compensation for the investment losses caused.
What happened
Mr Ks arrangement with his financial adviser was that ongoing adviser charge would be 
deducted from his pension plan by Royal London and paid to the adviser. He wrote to Royal 
London in April 2021 saying he now dealt with the plan himself and asked for the adviser 
charge to be cancelled. He asked it to acknowledge receipt of his letter. Mr K says he also 
spoke to the financial adviser to cancel the charge. He says Royal London didnt reply, but 
he assumed his instructions had been followed. But when it sent him the annual statement in 
March 2022 this showed adviser charge of £1,024 had been paid in the last year. 
Mr K called Royal London on 4 April 2022. It said it had received his letter, but this hadnt 
met its security requirements to be processed. So, it had written back to him, as hed 
requested, asking him to complete security details online. Mr K said he hadnt received this 
letter and a complaint was recorded. Royal London said it couldnt refund the adviser charge 
and suggested he contact the financial adviser to request this. It cancelled any further 
adviser charge payments from 12 April 2022.
Mr K contacted the adviser. It said whilst hed discussed whether he required services, this 
had been left unsettled and he hadnt cancelled the agreement. It said it had offered services 
as required by the agreement. It said he should go back to Royal London as it hadnt 
processed his request. 
Mr K referred his complaint to our service. He said his request was simple and the sum 
involved was significant for him. Our investigator looked into the complaint, and he upheld it.
He said, even if Mr Ks letter didnt meet security requirements his request was clear. And 
Royal London should have made further attempts to contact him when he didnt reply to its 
letter, as it had the greater degree of responsibility. Our investigator said if a follow up had 
been made it was likely that the charge would have been cancelled by 14 June 2021. And 
Royal London should refund the adviser charges deducted since then and add 8% interest 
per year simple to the date of settlement. 
Mr K accepted this, but Royal London disagreed. It said Mr K had requested it write to him 
and it had. It said Mr K had called it about taking benefits in February 2022 and hadnt 
mentioned anything about the adviser charge then. It said adding 8% interest was 
inappropriate as if the charges were refunded this would be backdated within the plan, which 
would benefit from any growth in the value over the period. 
Our investigator agreed that adding 8% interest wouldnt be fair if the charges were 
recredited at the appropriate date. But he said Royal London should have followed up with 
Mr K to process his instructions. He said as Mr K wanted the charges stopped it was 
reasonable to assume he would have responded to Royal Londons letter if hed received it.
As Royal London doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the issues here. I think Mr K had made a specific and clear 
request with financial implications for him. It isnt unreasonable that Royal London would 
want to be sure this was in order before acting on it. But when Mr K didnt reply to its own 
letter, I think it should have followed up on this and made another attempt to contact him. As 
most post is successfully delivered it is highly unlikely that if two correctly addressed letters 
were sent neither would be received. And it wouldnt have taken much for Royal London to 
have sent a further letter for the avoidance of doubt. 
I accept that in not following up himself, Mr K didnt know if his request had actually been 
received and dealt with. But he was the customer and wasnt expert on Royal Londons 
systems and procedures. And I think as Mr K wanted to stop the charge, its likely he would 
have responded had he received its letter.
Having been provided with a clear instruction from its customer I think the onus was on 
Royal London to follow up on the matter to clarify it one way or the other. Had it followed up 
after two weeks, I think its reasonable to assume Mr K would have contacted Royal London 
and the adviser charge would have been cancelled within another two weeks, which would 
be around 14 June 2021.  
So, I think its fair that Mr K be put back in the position he would have been in had the 
charges not been deducted after 14 June 2021. 
Putting things right
Royal London has said if a decision was made against it, the charges would be unwound 
from the date they were debited ensuring no financial loss. 
This type of correction would provide fair redress, putting Mr K back in the position he should 
have been in. Consequently, there would be no need for interest to be added to the charges 
deducted as originally suggested by our investigator.
Royal London should also provide Mr K with a clear and simple explanation showing how it 
arrived at the corrected fund value. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against The Royal London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited.
I direct The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to make a correction to Mr Ks 
policy to unwind the adviser charges deducted from 14 June 2021 as though they hadnt 
been taken in order to correct the value of his policy. 
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman