DRN-4120442
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way TICORP Limited administered her annual travel insurance 
policy.
Mrs M held a Staysure branded travel insurance policy. Staysure is a trading name of 
TICORP. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to Staysure throughout.
What happened
In June 2022, Mrs M took out an annual travel insurance policy through Staysure. During the 
sales process, she selected the Basic level of cover, which provided cancellation cover up 
to a limit of £500.
Mrs M was due to go on a cruise in November 2022. Unfortunately, her travelling companion 
suffered an accident and the cruise had to be cancelled. So Mrs M made a claim on the 
policy, which the underwriter settled in line with the policy limit of £500  which was 
significantly less than the value of Mrs Ms trip.
Around the same time, as she wished to book another trip, Mrs M asked Staysure whether 
her policy could be upgraded to the Comprehensive level of cover. Staysure said it would 
need to refer her request to the policy underwriter. It appears that the referral wasnt made 
until late January 2023.
On 8 February 2023, Mrs M called Staysure again to chase up her request. At this point, the 
call handler wrongly told Mrs M that her policy could be upgraded to provide 
Comprehensive cover and they charged her an additional premium. But later that day, Mrs 
M was told that the policy shouldnt have been upgraded. Thats because Mrs M had already 
travelled while the policy was in force. Staysure confirmed that the policy shouldnt have 
been upgraded a few days later. It cancelled Mrs Ms policy and refunded her the full refund 
of the premium shed paid for the policy.
As Mrs M was unhappy with the way Staysure had administered her policy, she complained. 
Staysure apologised for the delay in referring Mrs Ms request to the policy underwriter and 
for its error in upgrading her policy when this option hadnt been available to her. So it 
offered to pay her £30 compensation on top of the premium refund it had already paid.
Mrs M remained unhappy with Staysures offer and so she asked us to look into her 
complaint. She felt shed lost the chance to book a holiday due to the delay in Staysure 
referring her cover query to the underwriter.
Our investigator didnt think Staysures compensation offer went far enough to put things 
right. She felt it had been fair for Staysure to refund the premiums Mrs M had paid for the 
policy. And she didnt think Mrs M had shown shed suffered a financial loss as a result of 
being unable to book a holiday while Staysure referred the matter to the underwriter. But she 
felt Staysure should pay Mrs M £75 compensation to reflect its errors in the delay in referring 
Mrs Ms request and for its error in wrongly upgrading the policy.
Staysure accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mrs M didnt. So the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M, I think that by refunding Mrs Ms full 
premium, together with its agreement to pay Mrs M £75 compensation, Staysure has now 
made a fair offer to put things right. Ill explain why.
First, I must make it clear that this decision will only consider Staysures administration of 
Mrs Ms policy. A complaint about the settlement she was paid by the underwriter has 
already been separately considered by this service.
Staysure accepts it made errors in the administration of Mrs Ms policy. It acknowledges that 
it should have referred Mrs Ms request to upgrade her policy to Comprehensive cover to the 
policy underwriter sooner than it did. There was clearly a delay of some weeks in it doing so. 
I dont doubt that this delay caused Mrs M frustration and upset when she was seeking to 
book a new trip. Thats because I can entirely understand why she wanted to ensure she 
had a higher level of cancellation cover before going ahead and booking a holiday. 
It's clear too that following the delay in referring Mrs Ms request to the underwriter, Staysure 
wrongly told Mrs M that her policy could be upgraded and she paid an additional premium for 
Comprehensive cover. While Staysure told Mrs M that the upgrade had been an error on the 
same day it took place, I appreciate that this further error is likely to have unnecessarily 
raised Mrs Ms expectations about her policy. And I understand that it mustve been even 
more frustrating for Mrs M, likely causing her additional inconvenience. 
So I now need to think about how I think Staysure should put things right. Staysure paid Mrs 
M a full refund of her premium. In the circumstances, I think this was a very fair response 
from Staysure. I say that because Mrs M did make a successful claim on the policy, which 
significantly exceeded the premium she paid for the insurance policy. And its clear that she 
did benefit from the contract.
In my view, an additional amount of £75 is fair compensation to reflect the nature of the 
Staysures errors and the upset and inconvenience these caused Mrs M. I appreciate Mrs M 
feels strongly that she was prevented from booking a holiday during the delay period and 
that this caused her some upset. But Im mindful that Mrs M didnt suffer any actual financial 
loss as a result of Staysures errors. Thats because she didnt book a holiday during that 
period, which she was unable to take because of Staysures delay in referring the upgrade 
request to the underwriter. So I dont think it would be fair to compensate her for a holiday 
she didnt book. And Im satisfied that a compensation amount of £75 is a fair and 
proportionate award to recognise the likely impact of Staysures errors on Mrs M. I was 
pleased to note that Staysure accepted the investigators recommendation on this point.
So overall, I find that Staysures offer to pay Mrs M £75 compensation, alongside its prior 
refund of her premium and apology for its errors, is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Staysure has now made a fair 
offer to settle Mrs Ms complaint.I direct TICORP Limited to pay Mrs M £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman