DRN-3539464
The complaint
Mr D complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua (NewDay) acted irresponsibly in lending
to him by increasing his credit card limit several times.
What happened
Mr D opened a NewDay credit card account in October 2013 with an initial credit limit of
£500. His credit card limit was increased six times over several years from £500 to £7,150.
He said NewDay hadnt done proper checks to see if he was able to afford the increased
credit. And that his had caused him financial difficulty. He complained to NewDay.
NewDay said Mr Ds credit limit on this account was increased six times. Mr D had asked for
the first increase. For the remaining five increases theyd sent Mr D a letter offering him the
credit limit increase. They said their letters explained he had 40 days to opt out if he didnt
think he could manage the increased credit commitment.
NewDay said theyd used internal information, checked Mr Ds credit file and used data from
a credit reference agency to determine whether the increases were affordable. From the
information theyd checked there hadnt been anything to raise any concerns and so theyd
increased Mr Ds credit card limit as he hadnt opted out of the offers. NewDay also said they
offered a low credit card limit at application and on reviewing how the credit card was being
managed theyd offer to increase the limit.
Mr D wasnt happy with NewDays response. He said NewDay should have seen hed a high
level of unsecured debt. And that he was using credit to pay other credit. He referred his
complaint to us.
Our investigator considered the individual increases and said that NewDay shouldnt have
increased Mr Ds credit card limit for increase one, two and six. But that NewDay had acted
fairly and reasonably in increasing Mr Ds credit card limit for increase three, four and five.
He asked NewDay to refund all the interest and charges Mr D paid on increases one, two
and six.
Mr D didnt agree that the increases for three, four and five were affordable. NewDay said
theyd done reasonable and proportionate checks for all the additional lending. They asked
for the complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds credit card application was made in March 2013, which is over six years ago. As Mr D
isnt disputing the credit card application being approved. Im only considering the credit card
increases made to his credit card limit. Mr D had the following credit card limit increases:
Date Credit limit Increase New Credit limit
Mar 2014 £500 £100 £600
Apr 2016 £600 £800 £1,400
Oct 2016 £1,400 £1,000 £2,400
May2017 £2,400 £1.250 £3,650
Oct 2017 £3,650 £1,500 £5,150
Mar 2018 £5,150 £2,000 £7,150
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending.
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was the regulator when Mr D applied for the credit card.
And when the first increase was asked for and agreed. From April 2016 the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when the subsequent credit limits were increased
on the account. The relevant rules and guidance set out by the OFT and the FCA were
similar, with the FCA rules and guidance referencing what went before. The rules and
guidance of both regulators said NewDay should lend responsibly and were contained in the
OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) and the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook
(CONC) retrospectively.
The UK Cards Association also expects high standards of responsible lending and
encourage responsible borrowing not only when issuing credit cards, but also when granting
credit limit increases to customers from their members.
The guidelines are built around what are known as low and grow policies. This means
customers may be granted a small initial credit limit and, if the card is used responsibly and
other data indicates that the cardholder would be able to manage a higher limit, it may be
increased incrementally. And this is the approach NewDay said they took.
UK Cards Association also say the credit card issuer should undertake appropriate checks to
assess a customers ability to repay and overall creditworthiness before increasing a credit
limit.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. Paragraph 4.2 of the
ILG in part said:
Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an assessment of
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being
unsustainable for the borrower in question..
CONC 5.2A.20R provides guidance as to the extent and scope of a creditworthiness
assessment and the steps needed to satisfy the requirement that the assessment is a
reasonable one, based on sufficient information and proportionate to, the individual
circumstances of each case.
For both the affordability checks should be borrower-focused  so NewDay needed to think
about whether Mr D had the ability to sustain repayments and whether this would cause
difficulties or adverse consequences for him. This means it wasnt enough for them to only
think about the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the
impact of repayment on Mr D.
Section 4.6 of the ILG notes: We consider that the credit limit should have been set by the creditor (presumably aware
of the borrower's current disposable income and any reasonably foreseeable future changes
in the level of his disposable income
CONC 5.2A.24 says:
The volume and content of the information that must be taken into account, and the steps
that must be taken (if any) to evaluate that information and confirm its validity, will depend on
the level of affordability risk arising out of the agreement.
And
In relation to CONC 5.2A.24, potential indicators that the level of affordability risk may be
high include circumstances where:
(a) the total value of the customers outstanding debts relative to the customers income is
high
So, Ive considered the following:
Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ds
credit limits to satisfy itself that hed be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did NewDay make fair lending decisions?
Id expect NewDay to take into account, information they already had about Mr D at the time
of each increase, his ability to make repayments as they fell due and information on Mr Ds
credit file, considering his income and financial commitments and how he was managing his
finances.
Ive looked at the risk and affordability data NewDay said they based their lending decision
on.
Increase one (March 2014)
Prior to the first increase I can see that Mr D went over his credit card limit on a couple of
occasions. NewDay said they consider over limit fees werent necessarily an indicator of
financial difficulties, but rather, poor account management. But looking at Mr Ds account I
can see in the first month he spent close to his limit, and this included a cash transaction
which could have been a sign of financial difficulty. For the remainder of the time before the
increase I can see he went over his credit card limit on a couple of occasions, and this
incurred £24 in over the limit fees. He was close to his limit for the rest of the time.
I dont think this showed Mr D was managing his account in line with its terms before the
credit limit increase. So, I dont think the credit limit should have been increased without
NewDay carrying out more checks as I think they needed evidence of Mr Ds ability to
sustain any repayments, by checking his disposable income and financial commitments.
To consider what proportionate checks would have shown NewDay our investigator asked
Mr D for copies of his bank statements from the time so we could see what better checks
might have shown NewDay. Im not suggesting that this is the exact check that NewDay
should have carried out. But I do think NewDay needed evidence to demonstrate in detail
what was happening with Mr Ds finances. And looking at his bank statements is one way of
seeing what his financial situation was.Ive looked at Mr Ds bank statement in the three months prior to the increase in his credit
limit. The bank statements are for a joint account and clearly show a high dependency on
credit cards with at least nine evident. I can see from information provided by NewDay they
knew Mr D had two existing credit cards in his name at this time. And from information Mr D
has given to us hed at least a further two credit cards. And I can see a payday loan crediting
the account. The salary details being paid into the account for both account holders show a
fluctuating income, December 2013, £3,589.91 and £2,307.52, January 2014, £1,828.38 and
£1,551.38. And in February 2014 the salary amounts were £2,082.44 and £2,220.70. For all
three months for the most part Mr D was into the overdraft on the account. So, I dont think 
this showed Mr D was managing his financial situation, hed a high level of credit 
commitments. And by increasing his credit card limit even by a small amount meant
increasing this indebtedness even further. So, I dont think NewDay acted responsibility in
increasing Mr Ds credit card limit.
Increase two (April 2016)
In April 2016, NewDay offered to increase Mr Ds credit card balance by £800. I can see as
soon as Mr D had the previous increase in March 2014 he used the card and exceeded
within a month the credit cards limit. And before the increase in April 2016, during the
preceding months Mr D had exceeded the limit of his card on seven occasions. NewDay in
their final response said Mr D had only been charged one over the limit charge of £12 prior
to the increase being approved. But from their data I can see Mr D had seven £12 charges
for being over the limit applied to his account. His balance was consistently at or over the
limit, and there was little to no retail spend in this time. Again, I think NewDay needed to do
more to look at Mr Ds financial situation.
Mr Ds bank statements prior to the increased limit being applied, again showed a high level
of dependence on credit, and he was constantly in his overdraft. I can also see that the
salaries being paid into the account still fluctuated so there wasnt a constant level of
income each month. So, I dont think NewDay lent responsibility as they added to Mr Ds
indebtedness when he was already struggling with his finances.
Increase three (October 2016)
In October 2016 NewDay offered Mr D an increase of £1,000. I can see from NewDays data
that Mr D followed the same pattern and immediately used the previous additional increase.
Although he didnt exceed his credit limit, I can see that his balance was again consistently
close to his card credit limit before this credit limit increase was given.
NewDay has sent application data they held for another credit card application theyd for Mr
D. This showed he had a net monthly income of £3269, his partners income was given as
£1,787. Accommodation costs £800, living costs £700 and unsecured loans amounting to
£48,900. Calculating a 5% repayment on the unsecured loans would appear to show Mr D to
have disposable income of around £1,000 per month. But the level of indebtedness would be
around 25% of the combined income.
The £1,000 increase was significant, and I dont think NewDays assessment of Mr Ds
eligibility was proportionate to this increase. There is insufficient evidence to show they took
reasonable steps to determine whether Mr D was able to take on such a substantial increase
of credit. I think given the evidence of Mr Ds high level of indebtedness and pattern of using
additional credit immediately. I again think NewDay should have checked further into Mr Ds
financial situation.
His three-month bank statements prior to the October 2016 increase show Mr Ds salary to
actually be £1985.26, £2,156.84 and £2,129.32 respectively. On average Mr Ds salary wasaround £2,091, which is over £1,000 less than the data held by NewDay. And I think given
the level of unsecured debt he already had this would have meant he had little to no
disposable income each month. And the percentage of debt to income would have exceeded
25%.
From Mr Ds bank statements, I can see credit commitment payments from the account in
excess of £2,000 each month. They also show Mr D remaining in the overdraft and I also
saw a payday loan credit. NewDays data doesnt show any payday loans for Mr D, and I
cant say who applied for this loan. But if NewDay had checked Mr Ds bank statements I
think theyd have seen Mr D wasnt managing his finances well. And together with the high
level of debt he already had I dont think NewDay acted responsibly in lending further to him.
Increase four (May 2017)
In May 2017 NewDay offered Mr D an increase of £1,250. The same pattern as before is
evident as soon as Mr D got the previous increase, he used it and stayed close to the limit of
his credit card. His statements also show he remained consistently using his overdraft. His
average salary for the three months prior to the increase was around £2,151. So again,
given the level of his indebtedness I dont think this lending was affordable or sustainable for
Mr D.
Increase five (October 2017)
In October 2017 NewDay offered Mr D a further increase of £1,500. Although Mr D had used
some of the previous increase, he hadnt followed his previous pattern of spending up to the
available limit. His outgoing credit commitments to various credit cards was still evident, and
I can see a direct debit showing another loan provider not seen on the previous statements.
Mr Ds bank statements continue to show he was using his overdraft despite several large
payments being paid into the account at various times. And his salary remained around the
same level. So again, given the level of his indebtedness I dont think NewDay acted
responsibly in lending further to Mr D.
Increase six (March 2018)
In March 2018 Newday offered Mr D a further increase, the highest yet, of £2,000. Again, the
same spending pattern occurred with Mr D using the previous increase to close to its limit
with regular retail spend. I can see in excess of £2,000 was still being paid towards credit
commitments from the account. And what appears to be money transfers in from another
credit card. Mr D is still using his overdraft and on a couple of occasions payday loans are
received. So again, given the level of his indebtedness I dont think NewDay acted
responsibly in lending further to Mr D.
NewDay says that Mr D asked for the first increase in March 2014, and that he was free to
reject the subsequent offers made by them if he wished. But I think that misses the
fundamental point that it was NewDay, not Mr D, that are required to ensure the offered
credit was affordable and sustainable. The regulations were in place to protect consumers 
not to assist lenders in managing the risk of repayments not being made. And knowing the
high level of unsecured debt Mr D already had I dont think increasing his indebtedness was
sustainable for him.
Where credit has been provided when it shouldnt have been, it would be fair and reasonable
for the lender to refund any interest and charges paid by the borrower. And the borrower
would be expected to repay any remaining amount of the funds they were given. So, Id
expect Mr D to pay back the funds he was lent  when he used his credit card  but not the
interest or any other charges that have been applied. Id also expect NewDay to removeadverse information, if any, they have reported to the credit reference agencies about this
account.
Responses to my provisional decision
No further comments or evidence has been provided by either party for consideration.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr D NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should :
rework the account to ensure that no interest is charged on the balance of the 
account above the initial credit limit to reflect the fact that no further credit should 
have been provided. All over limit fees should also be removed; and
if an outstanding balance remains on Mr Ds account once all adjustments have been 
made NewDay should contact Mr D to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this;
if the effect of all adjustments results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr D 
along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to take off tax from this
interest. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its
taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to put things right as outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman