DRN-3460415
The complaint
Miss P complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) gave her incorrect
information that led to a delay in her re-mortgaging her buy-to-let (BTL) property.
What happened
Miss P held a BTL mortgage for £102,000 with another lender. Her fixed rate was due to end
at the start of September 2021, so she met with a Halifax adviser to discuss re-mortgaging.
Miss P says she understood from this meeting that she would be eligible for a BTL mortgage
with Halifax. And the adviser submitted her application for a £98,000 BTL mortgage on
17 August 2021.
There were some delays due to an incorrect address and the initial valuation report saying
that the Energy Performance Certificate was out of date. Miss P was also asked to submit
income verification twice. But on 22 November 2021, over three months later, it was decided
that Miss P was never eligible for a BTL mortgage with Halifax because she didnt meet the
minimum income requirement of £30,000.
Miss P complained that she informed the initial adviser at the beginning that her income was
£25,000. And she felt she should have been advised immediately that she wasnt eligible
rather than getting to the stage of having a valuation report and completing two income
verifications. Miss P arranged to re-mortgage for £104,000 with her current lender, and this
completed in December 2021. Miss P said she paid a higher interest rate than she needed
to between September and November 2021 and she wanted to be compensated for this.
Halifax looked into Miss Ps concerns and agreed that she should have been informed she
didnt meet the eligibility criteria sooner. It offered to put her back in the position she would
have been in by compensating her with the difference between the standard variable rate
she was put on after her fixed rate ended, 4.74%, and the interest rate she would have been
on if she had obtained the mortgage with Halifax, 2.03%, from September 2021 to November
2021. It also awarded £400 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused to her.
Miss P seems to accept the amount she was awarded for stress and inconvenience, but she
doesnt agree with the figures Halifax used to calculate her settlement offer for financial loss.
Miss P says Halifax should be using the new interest rate, 1%, and the outstanding 
mortgage balance she had at the time, £102,000. As Halifax didnt agree, Miss P brought her
complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ps concerns, but they thought the figures Halifax relied on
were appropriate in the circumstances. As Miss P still disagreed, the complaint was referred
to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision on 27 July 2022 and I explained why I 
thought the complaint should be upheld. Below is an extract of what I said: 
As Ive explained above, Halifax has accepted responsibility for the financial loss caused to
Miss P between September and November 2021. Because of this, I dont need to address
whether Halifax is at fault in terms of these issues  it has already accepted it is. It has
accepted that Miss P should have been told she was ineligible for its BTL product much
sooner. And it has compensated Miss P with £400 for any stress or inconvenience caused
and Miss P has accepted this. So, my decision will focus on the issue Miss P has raised,
which concerns whether Halifax has used the most relevant interest rates and loan amount
in its redress calculations.
Halifax needs to put Miss P back in the position she would have been in if the above mistake
never happened. But Miss P could never have had the Halifax product that was on offer, so I
dont think it would be right to use the 2.03% interest rate in calculating her financial loss.
Instead, I need to think about what Miss P would have done if the mistake hadnt happened.
Considering everything, if it werent for Halifaxs mistake, I think its more likely than not
Miss P would have applied to re-mortgage through her existing lender in August 2021. I say
this because Miss P applied for the product with her existing lender as soon as she knew
she couldnt have a BTL mortgage with Halifax in November 2021. Her new application went
through quickly, and Miss P moved onto a new fixed interest rate in December 2021. Miss P
has confirmed the product she switched to was available at the time she initially applied to
re-mortgage with Halifax, so I cant see why her actions would have been any different had
she found out she was ineligible for Halifaxs product when she should have.
Miss P has demonstrated that she would have gone with her existing lender instead of
Halifax if she had been advised correctly. So, in order to put Miss P back in the position she
would have been in, it would be more appropriate for Halifax to compare the 4.74% standard
variable rate she paid between September and November 2021, with the fixed rate of 1%
she could have been paying  had she applied to re-mortgage with her existing lender in
August 2021.
Its also unclear why there is a difference in the loan amounts requested. Miss Ps
application to Halifax was for £98,000, but her new mortgage is for £104,000. Miss P was
charged a fee of £2,000 to re-mortgage with her existing lender and I dont think Halifax
needs to factor this into its calculations  as this amount was charged on the new, current
interest rate which Halifax isnt responsible for.
But the mortgage Miss P was paying on a standard variable rate was £102,000, so I think
Halifax should be basing its redress calculations on this figure rather than the application
form that was submitted to it. I say this because, regardless of why the application to Halifax
was for less, Miss P ended up paying higher interest on the mortgage she already had and
the only way to put her back in the position she would have been in is to calculate the
redress using this amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accepted my provisional findings and no further information was provided. So, I 
dont have anything further to add to my provisional decision and for the reasons explained 
above, Halifax should put things right as set out below. Putting things right
Halifax should recalculate the redress it has offered Miss P by comparing the 4.74% interest
rate she paid with the 1% interest rate she would have been paying. It should also base its
calculation on the total outstanding mortgage amount of £102,000.
Halifax should add 8% simple interest on each difference in payment from the date she
made each payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax to revise its redress offer as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman