DRN-2700856
The complaint
Mr D complains that A J Bell Management Limited provided him with incorrect information 
concerning a transfer of his portfolio. 
What happened
In September 2018 Mr Ds advisor enquired if A J Bell was able to accept in-specie transfers 
of all the funds held in Mr Ds investment portfolio. A J Bell confirmed that it could. 
A transfer request for the portfolio, which was made up of a general investment account and 
an ISA, was duly provided and by 31 October 2018 A J Bell had received a valuation of the 
portfolio from the ceding provider. However, it then became apparent that there were several 
funds that couldnt in fact be transferred in-specie. Some funds required conversion before 
transfer, some couldnt be transferred at all. 
There followed some weeks of correspondence between A J Bell and Mr Ds adviser as the 
process continued. Several of the funds that had initially been identified as not transferable 
were eventually transferred. But there were some funds for which there was no solution, so 
Mr D had to sell them and transfer as cash. In all, the whole process took around six months 
to complete
A complaint was made to A J Bell about the matter  primarily concerning the incorrect 
information given at the outset, that all the funds could be transferred in-specie. But Mr D 
and his adviser were also unhappy with subsequent information provided by A J Bell during 
the course of transfer, which they considered to have been contradictory and unreliable. 
Mr D felt that he had incurred losses related to a capital gains tax liability, loss of an income 
stream and time spent out of the market. 
A J Bell upheld the complaint in part. It accepted that Mr Ds adviser had been given 
incorrect information at the outset. But it felt that its ongoing management of the transfer 
process had been reasonable and although problems had occurred, they were of the type to 
be expected as part of a large and complex portfolio transfer process. A J Bell offered Mr D 
£100 to compensate for its initial mistake. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as that reached by A J Bell. She noted that it had accepted the initial error, but 
she felt it was difficult to say that the outcome wouldve been different if the error hadnt 
occurred. She highlighted that despite the error A J Bell had, early in the process, drawn 
attention to the fact that there would, after all, be issues with some of the funds. So, this had 
given Mr D and his adviser an opportunity to reassess and cancel the transfer if they didnt 
want to proceed.
Mr D and his adviser didnt accept the investigators view. They provided separate 
responses, that can be summarised together as: 
A J Bell never provided a clear option to cancel the transfer. 
It was accepted that the transfer had been a complicated process, but it had been 
impossible to make an informed decision on how to proceed as the ongoing 
information provided to them by A J Bell was inconsistent and unreliable.
The issues associated with transferring some of the funds shouldve been identified 
earlier, right at the outset, and it was irrelevant that the staff member who had made 
the initial mistake was a salesperson.
Had Mr D been provided with accurate information the outcome would have been 
different as hed have known whether (or not) to proceed. 
Cancelling the transfer and returning the holdings to the ceding provider might not 
have been possible in any event once the transfer was underway. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion. She said that A J Bell wouldnt 
have been able to advise on cancellation of the transfer as its terms didnt allow for this. And 
although she accepted some contradictory information had been provided, she stressed 
again that, prior to this, the adviser had been made aware of the problems associated with 
the transfer of some funds. So, Mr D and his adviser had been put on notice that it would not 
be the straightforward process first envisaged.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute about what happened at the start of the process. A J Bell has accepted 
that an error was made when Mr Ds adviser first approached it. At that point it clearly said 
that all the funds in his portfolio could be transferred in-specie, with no indication given that 
there could be problems with some of them. 
But Mr D doesnt accept A J Bells offer of £100 to address this error, and he also feels that 
there were further issues with the way the transfer was handled.
Looking first at the accepted error, its clear this set an expectation for Mr D that the transfer 
would be swift and straightforward. That meant that any subsequent issue of any sort was 
likely to be perceived as something having gone wrong  in short, A J Bell acting incorrectly.
But I think the problems encountered as the transfer proceeded were, generally speaking, 
the type of issues commonly seen with such a transfer. I appreciate Mr D and his adviser 
feel that the communication of these issues, and how A J Bell was attempting to put them 
right, was contradictory and unreliable. And I can understand why they might characterise 
the communication in this way, particularly in light of the expectation set at the start. But I 
dont think the ongoing problems were, in themselves, reasons to uphold the complaint or 
direct A J Bell to do more than it has already offered. 
Ive thought about what Mr D might have done had his adviser been given correct 
information at the outset. While I dont think A J Bell could have been expected to list 
specifically all the potential issues that might occur, as I dont think these wouldve become 
apparent until the process was started, I think it clearly should at least have warned that 
there might be some funds that could need converting, selling, or some other action. 
But, on balance, I think that if A J Bell had provided this more detailed and accurate type of 
guidance, Mr D would nevertheless more likely than not still have chosen to proceed with the 
transfer.I say this as I dont think it would have come as a particular surprise to Mr D, nor his adviser, 
that some of the quite specialist funds held by Mr D might present transfer issues that could 
take some time to resolve. I think, on balance, that Mr D would have considered it worthwhile 
still proceeding with the transfer, as his stated purpose of moving to A J Bell was to take 
advantage of lower charges. And it was also intended that, once transferred, the portfolio 
would be reviewed, and recommendations made to switch some funds to suit 
Mr Ds risk profile and investment strategy.
So, in that context, I dont think a warning that there might be some issues with some of the 
funds wouldve been sufficient to put Mr D off. Although A J Bell was clearly asked at the 
outset if everything could be transferred in-specie, Ive not seen that it was indicated by Mr D 
or his adviser that proceeding with the transfer was conditional upon all funds being 
transferred in-specie.  
And further, as the investigator noted, while the initial response was incorrect, the situation 
was rectified relatively quickly, in the sense that once A J Bell received a response from the 
ceding provider it let Mr Ds adviser know within a week that, contrary to what it had 
previously said, there was potentially going to be some funds that couldnt be transferred in-
specie. 
I note what Mr D has said about cancellation of the transfer at this point potentially creating 
its own problems. But I dont think doing so wouldve been out of the question, not if it was 
vital to Mr D that all funds had to be transferred in-specie.
So, in summary, while I recognise that Mr D feels very strongly about the actions of A J Bell, 
I think that the offer it has made to compensate him is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint, as I consider the 
offer of £100 already made by A J Bell Management Limited to be fair and reasonable.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman