DRN-3220826
The complaint
Mr S is a sole trader. He complains that Starling Bank Limited unfairly declined his 
application for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. The 
facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules, applicants were able to borrow a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover. Mr S asked to borrow £50,000, but 
Starling wasnt satisfied that he had the requisite turnover to support this and 
declined the application accordingly. Having reviewed the evidence that Mr S 
provided Starling in this regard, Im satisfied that the banks decision was reasonable.
Mr S says that his application was based on an estimated turnover figure of £210,000 
and that projections were permitted under the Scheme rules. While estimated 
turnover figures could be used by businesses that had started trading during 2019, 
lenders werent obliged to simply accept any amount put forward by an applicant. 
They were entitled  and expected  to ensure that loans werent given 
inappropriately and to that end, had ultimate discretion as to whether to lend. 
Starling considered Mr Ss estimated turnover in light of the income that he could 
evidence. It said that Mr Ss tax return showed an income of £5,000 in two months, 
so it thought an appropriate projection wouldve been something in the region of 
£30,000. I think this was a reasonable approach to take and one that was permitted 
under the Scheme rules. 
I can understand Mr Ss concern that Starling carried out a search of his credit file 
when reviewing his application, but I dont think it did anything wrong in this regard. 
While lenders werent allowed to decline an application on the basis of affordability or 
credit concerns, they werent prohibited from running credit checks. This was 
because they are a recognised part of a lenders fraud assessment processes. So 
they were permitted under the Scheme rules as a means of conducting the required 
fraud and Know Your Customer checks  as long as any credit-related concerns 
were disregarded. Starlings decision wasnt based on any credit-related flags or 
affordability concerns, and so I dont think it did anything wrong in carrying out this 
check.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman