DRN-2966445
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Os complaint is about BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA). Theyre unhappy with:
With the pledge BUPA gave to its customers about providing a premium rebate 
during Covid-19; and
The increase in their premiums when the policy was due for renewal.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O have a private medical insurance policy. BUPA is the underwriter. The policy 
period relevant here is 1 October 2019 to 30 September 2020. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all 
nonessential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was 
imposed by the UK government. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from Covid-
19, private medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to the NHS.
In August 2020, Mr and Mrs O complained to BUPA about their policy. They said they 
thought BUPA was treating its customers unfairly because while there was a reduced 
service due to Covid-19 and it intended to offer a rebate, customers had no idea when it 
would be paid or how much it would be. Mr and Mrs O said BUPA was failing to give them 
adequate information. They also said their renewal notice represented a 12% increase in 
premium and BUPA was being unfair to older customers. 
BUPA responded and said, in terms of the rebate, it wanted to do the right thing by its 
customers and therefore committed to passing back any financial benefit under the 
exceptional circumstances that were presented with Covid-19. This would be done by way of 
a rebate. It said it would continue taking the agreed premiums from policyholders during this 
time and also said an independent review would be taking place once things had got back to 
some normality. A rebate would be applied to the period 23 March 2020 to 30 September 
2020. It explained the situation was changing and therefore it would take time to determine 
the extent of the rebate. An initial payment was likely to be in mid-2021. BUPA said if 
policyholders cancelled their policy or didnt renew, they would still be eligible for a rebate for 
the time they held the policy. BUPA also made some changes to the way the policy worked. 
For example, providing remote consultations to policyholders during this period.
In terms of the increase in premium, BUPA told Mr and Mrs O the premium increase was 
due to annual inflation and considered factors such as healthcare, age, where a policyholder 
lives, how many claims are made by customers and the cost of such things as innovative 
drugs and advances in medical technology. It said Mr and Mrs Os premium for 2019-2020 
was £4,682.87. But they also received one month of free cover, so they paid £4,292.63 for 
that year. The premium for 2020-2021 was calculated using the previous years policy 
premium of £4,682.87. BUPA quoted £4,818.07 for 2020-2021 showing an increase of 
£135.20 and equated to 2.89% increase. BUPA confirmed the premium increase wasnt 12% 
as Mr and Mrs O had thought. 
Unhappy with BUPAs response, Mr and Mrs O referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think it should be upheld. While she appreciated the 
policy hadnt provided the cover Mr and Mrs O had expected it to, she was persuaded it was 
fair for BUPA to review the overall impact of Covid-19 and commission a review with a view 
to passing back any exceptional financial benefit. She also considered BUPA had calculated 
Mr and Mrs Os renewal premium fairly.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed. Ive summarised their detailed response to our investigator:
Members were unable to obtain the treatment which they were seeking. Its totally 
unacceptable that treatment should be postponed for months. People join BUPA as 
they wish to avoid the long waiting lists for planned treatment;
They and colleagues were unable to deal with problems which were not critical, but 
were still causing concern and discomfort for months;
The question of impartiality was raised and about the extent of that independent 
review; and
Theyve raised concerns over the detriment of other policyholders in a similar position 
to themselves and said theres a list of illnesses that BUPA couldnt offer.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that BUPA hasnt had 
a chance to look into the issue about the amount of rebate offered since Mr and Mrs O 
brought their complaint to this service. So, I wont be looking into this issue within this 
decision. My understanding is that Mr and Mrs O have got in touch with BUPA about this 
issue separately and directly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs O that while Ive summarised their detailed response to 
our investigator, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent us. In making my decision 
though, I havent commented on each and every point theyve raised, and our rules dont 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Os complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of their contract 
with BUPA as well as other relevant considerations such as law and industry guidance. 
Was BUPAs rebate pledge fair?
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Os policy say their plan is for one year and that 
premiums must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are 
intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. 
An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that 
time, even if no successful claim has been made under the policy.
That said, due to the unprecedented and unforeseen circumstances, BUPA committed to 
offering a rebate to policyholders in the event that there was a reduction in claims being 
made. It decided to do this so as not to profit from Covid-19.
A third party was commissioned by BUPA to carry out an independent review to oversee the 
rebate calculation. BUPA explained to Mr and Mrs O that a third-party independent review 
would take place to see if there had been any exceptional financial benefit to it as a result of Covid-19 and once it had had the chance to assess the impact of Covid-19 on claims. It then 
committed to passing back any difference its members. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs O feel they should have benefitted from the rebate sooner or at 
least at their renewal. However, I dont think this was possible because the impact 
associated with the pandemic hadnt yet been assessed. I dont think this was an unfair 
position for BUPA to take. I can see that this review has now taken place and Mr and Mrs O 
have now received a rebate. While I cant comment on the amount of that rebate, the way in 
which it was done seems fair to me  BUPA informed its customers and let them know when 
it was likely a payment would be made. Im satisfied that BUPA acted fairly in how it 
assessed the impact of Covid-19 on Mr and Mrs Os policy and also, in commissioning an 
independent review at the time. I dont think it acted unfairly in taking those steps. I also 
dont think BUPA couldve reviewed this sooner than it did as there was still a lot of 
uncertainty at the time. BUPA said the initial payment would be made in mid-2021 and I can 
see this did happen. BUPA kept its customers informed about what was happening; that a 
review would take place on whether a rebate would be offered. While it couldnt say when 
this would take place and how much the amount of the rebate would be, I dont think thats 
unreasonable. I also dont think BUPA failed to give Mr and Mrs O adequate information. 
There was information on BUPAs website at the time and it wrote to its customers to explain 
what was happening. Im satisfied therefore that BUPA didnt treat Mr and Mrs O unfairly in 
this regard. 
Mr and Mrs O have questioned the impartiality of the independent review carried out by 
BUPA. However, bearing in mind that the third party has confirmed it was satisfied that 
BUPAs approach with regards to allocating the funds was reasonable and equitable, I have 
no reason to doubt the integrity or impartiality of that. 
Having reviewed all the available information, I also dont agree that Mr and Mrs Os policy 
was unusable. Depending on the type of medical treatment or services Mr and Mrs O 
required, BUPA was able to pre-authorise treatment to be carried out at a later date. I also 
note it offered to support its customers through the pandemic, by offering, amongst other 
things, remote consultations and expert advice. BUPA doesnt own or operate the vast 
majority of the private facilities its members use and requisitioning these facilities for use by 
the NHS was something which was outside of BUPAs control. 
Did BUPA calculate Mr and Mrs Os increase in the renewal premium fairly?
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like this. We dont generally tell 
insurers what risks they should insure, how they should calculate risk or what risk factors 
they can take into account. And we dont generally tell them what price they should charge to 
cover those risks. BUPAs entitled to decide whether or not it wants to carry on insuring 
Mr and Mrs O after it reassesses the risk of a claim at each renewal. And, if it does, what 
price it needs to charge them to cover the risk. If it believes the risk has gone up, then its 
likely that it may well need to put up the price. 
However, what I can look at is whether or not BUPAs worked out its price fairly. So Ive 
looked at the factors BUPA has applied to calculate the premium. I also need to be satisfied 
that BUPAs treated Mr and Mrs O in the same way as any other policyholder BUPA insures 
in the same circumstances and havent singled them out in any way. 
BUPAs explained the reasons why Mr and Mrs Os premium increased. Its clear that BUPA 
has applied a general inflationary increase to Mr and Mrs Os scheme, which applies to all of 
its policyholders in the same circumstances as Mr and Mrs O. This meant the overall cost of 
the policy went up. I also think BUPAs price explanation makes it clear that the price 
increase was 2.89% rather than the 12% that Mr and Mrs O thought it was. Based on what Ive seen, I think BUPAs treated Mr and Mrs O in the same way it would 
treat any policyholder in similar circumstances. Im satisfied its worked out Mr and Mrs Os 
price in line with its internal guidelines and that its done this correctly. So I dont think BUPA 
has calculated their premium unfairly. While I appreciate Mr and Mrs O had a reduced 
service during the national lockdown from March 2020, I think BUPA has recognised this by 
way of a rebate to Mr and Mrs O.
Ultimately BUPA is able to decide whether or not it wishes to offer cover, or if so, on what 
terms. It isnt obliged to offer Mr and Mrs O a policy at a lower cost which includes cover for 
all of their existing conditions. 
Conclusion
Overall, while I acknowledge BUPA couldnt inform Mr and Mrs O when they would receive a 
rebate and how much that would be, I dont think this was unfair or unreasonable in the 
circumstances. Im satisfied that it had to assess the full impact of Covid-19 in the context of 
claims being made before it could make further decisions on when and how this would 
happen. BUPA was entitled to carry on taking the premiums and the restrictions on services 
was something that was beyond its control. 
Additionally, there are many factors that are taken into account when a premium is 
calculated. Im not persuaded that BUPA treated Mr and Mrs O unfairly when it came to 
renewal. While the premium had increased, I dont think BUPA treated Mr and Mrs O unfairly 
or differently than policyholders who were in similar situations. 
I appreciate the months during the national lockdown must have been a very difficult and 
challenging period for Mr and Mrs O, but I dont think BUPA has done anything wrong which 
it needs to put right. 
Taking everything into account and in the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded 
BUPA treated Mr and Mrs O unfairly. It follows that I wont be asking BUPA to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint against BUPA 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman