DRN-2596272
The complaint
Mrs O complains about the valuation U K Insurance Limited (UKI) placed on her car after a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Os car was damaged in an accident and UKI declared it to be beyond economical 
repair. It made Mrs O an offer in settlement of her claim which it said was the cars market 
value. This was £1,800, and the policy excess was waived. But Mrs O said she couldnt 
replace her car for this amount. She provided examples of similar cars advertised at higher 
prices. She thought her car was worth at least £2,500. 
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had valued Mrs Os car correctly using the motor trade guides according to our approach. 
She thought its offer was within the range of the valuations provided by the trade guides. 
Mrs O replied that she thought the cars condition and history would increase its valuation. 
She said the accident wasnt her fault, yet she felt she was suffering from the other drivers 
negligence. Mrs O asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to 
me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs O 
and to UKI on 16 February 2021.  I summarise my findings:
I could understand that Mrs O felt frustrated by UKIs decision as the accident clearly wasnt 
her fault and she was now without her car. I could understand that she wanted a fair 
settlement for the loss of her car. 
UKI offered Mrs O a settlement for the market value of her car. I could see that this was 
defined in the policys terms and conditions as the cost of replacing the car with another of 
the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or 
loss. 
The investigator had explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought UKIs offer was fair and reasonable. So I checked how she came to 
this conclusion. I could see that she checked the trade guides we use for cars of the same 
make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mrs Os car. So I thought she took into account 
the cars low mileage, its condition and its history. The sat nav didnt increase the 
valuations. 
Mrs O said shed seen similar cars advertised for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
The settlement offered by UKI was within the range of the valuations the investigator found, 
albeit at the lower end of the range. This would usually be in keeping with our approach. But 
there were no outlying valuations that should be disregarded. And the average of the 
valuations found by the investigator was £2,161, an increase of £361 on UKIs offer. 
When theres a difference like this, we consider whether its proportionate to the settlement 
amount. This difference was about 20% of UKIs offer and I thought it was significant. UKIs 
engineer valued Mrs Os car from photographs and by using the guides. I hadnt seen that 
he made any deductions for pre-existing damage. So I wasnt satisfied that UKIs offer was 
fair or reasonable. And I thought a fair and reasonable offer, based on our usual approach, 
would be £2,161. 
I also thought UKI had caused Mrs O trouble and upset by not fairly valuing her car. So I 
thought it should compensate her for this. And I thought it should pay Mrs O £50 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused her. This amount was in keeping 
with what Id award in similar circumstances.
Subject to any further representations by Mrs O or UKI, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to require U K Insurance Limited to increase its 
settlement offer to Mrs O for the loss of her car to £2,161 and to pay her £50 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair valuation of her car. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O and UKI both accepted my provisional decision. So, as I have no further 
representations to consider, I can see no reason to depart from it.
 
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to increase its settlement offer to Mrs O for the loss of her 
car to £2,161 and to pay her £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its unfair valuation of her car.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman