DRN-4410730
The complaint
Mr A complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited avoided his motorcycle 
insurance policy (treated it like it never existed). 
What happened
Mr A took out a motorcycle insurance policy with Markerstudy Insurance in March 2020. 
When his bike was stolen in June 2022, Mr A tried to make a claim. Mr A renewed his 
motorcycle policy through a broker in 2022 with a different underwriter. 
Markerstudy Insurance said hed answered the question it asked about where his motorcycle 
would be kept overnight incorrectly. And it considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy from March 2020. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our Investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr A said that his original complaint was against the broker. He said that hed called the 
broker when he was given seven days to provide a response about the misrepresentation 
before the cancellation would take place. Hed asked if he could cancel the policy and was 
advised to wait until he heard from the insurer. Mr A says he should have been given the 
opportunity to cancel the policy before the insurer did, so that he didnt have a cancellation 
recorded by an insurer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Markerstudy Insurance thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he said he would keep his motorcycle in a garage at his home 
address overnight. 
Ive looked at the Statement of Fact provided by Markerstudy which shows the following:
bike kept overnight - with the response Garage. 
When Mr A made a claim, Markerstudy reviewed the address and found there was no 
garage there. Mr A said he used to keep the motorcycle at his grandparents address 
overnight, but he moved from that address. The location of the bike when it was stolen was 
on the driveway of his home. 
Under the schedule Markerstudy issued to Mr A when he bought the policy, it set out the 
endorsements which applied. The relevant endorsement which applies to Markerstudys 
decision reads:
Excluding Theft when not in private garage
You have agreed that you will keep your vehicle in your private locked garage or 
building, at your home address, to which only you or anyone with your permission 
have access. If a theft or attempted theft happens at any time and within a 500 metre 
radius of your home address when the vehicle is not locked in the garage or building 
we will not pay the claim 
I think Mr A failed to take reasonable care when answering this question. 
If Markerstudy had known the correct information, it wouldnt have offered Mr A a policy. It 
has provided evidence from its underwriters to support this. So Im satisfied this was a 
qualifying misrepresentation. 
Markerstudy has said Mr As misrepresentation was careless and this provides the lesser of 
negative outcomes for Mr A, as Markerstudy provided a refund of his premiums. 
I agree with Markerstudys categorisation of the misrepresentation. Ive looked at the actions 
Markerstudy Insurance can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Markerstudy can avoid the policy, decline any claim made and provide a refund of the 
premiums for careless misrepresentation. As it has done this, I think it has acted reasonably. 
I appreciate that Mr A has asked if hed been given the opportunity to cancel the policy via 
the broker, would this have changed the outcome before Markerstudys decision. It wouldnt 
have - as the avoidance was backdated to when Mr A took out the policy for 
misrepresentation, which Mr A appears to accept. So Mr A wouldnt have been able to avoid 
declaring a cancellation by an insurer in these circumstances. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Markerstudy Insurance was entitled to avoid Mr As policy in 
accordance with CIDRA. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Markerstudy Insurance to rely on it to avoid Mr As 
policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman