DRN-2540338
The complaint
S is a church and registered charity. It complains about the way National Westminster Bank 
Plc (NatWest) has handled requests to change its account signatories.
The complaint is brought by one of Ss trustees, who Ill refer to as Mr B.
What happened
Mr B was first looking to make changes to the signatories on Ss bank account in September 
2018. He wanted to remove one of the signatories (Ms F) and add a new one (Mrs M). He 
submitted the necessary mandate in October 2018.
NatWest requested a copy of the minutes of the meeting giving authority to make the 
proposed changes from S, which Mr B duly provided. The bank had also asked that Mrs M 
go through some identity checks  but Mr B says that after checking further with branch staff, 
he was told that sufficient information was already available given Mrs M was an existing 
customer of The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS  a member of the same banking group as 
NatWest). So no further action was taken in that respect.
Mr B says that having heard nothing further from the bank, he assumed the changes had 
taken effect. And Mrs M signed cheques which were successfully processed. But in fact, 
neither of the changes had been implemented. 
Mr B needed to make further changes to the signatories in July 2019. He applied online to 
add a new signatory (Mr P) and remove one of the existing signatories (Mr R). The 
application needed to be signed by two existing authorised signatories  so believing Mrs M 
to be one, she signed along with Mr B.
NatWest wrote to Mr B on 12 July advising that it again needed minutes of the relevant 
meeting and that it couldnt accept Mrs Ms signature as she wasnt listed as an authorised 
signatory. It also said that it had emailed Ms F with a copy of the mandate form to be 
amended and returned. 
This brought to Mr Bs attention that Ms F hadnt been removed as requested, nor had 
Mrs M been added. He called NatWest to raise concerns about the failed changes, to which 
the bank responded in writing on 14 August. While it apologised for any inconvenience, it 
said that the changes hadnt been implemented as it still required minutes of the meeting 
and an active signatory to countersign the mandate.
Mr B didnt think NatWests response had fully addressed his concerns and replied with a 
letter on 18 August setting out a number of outstanding issues. In summary, he was 
unhappy that:
The request made in October 2018 hadnt been implemented, despite assurances 
from staff in branch that the bank had all the necessary information. 
Even though that change hadnt actually taken effect, cheques signed by Mrs M had 
been processed  which was a breach of security.
The request made in July 2019 hadnt been implemented either. The bank said it 
needed a copy of minutes of the relevant meeting, but the online form Mr B had used 
suggested otherwise.
The bank had emailed Ms F, when it wouldve known from the October 2018 request 
that she wasnt an acceptable point of contact  which was a breach of 
confidentiality.
The bank had failed to properly address and respond to Mr Bs concerns. 
NatWest issued a further written response, accepting that it had made errors and 
apologising for the inconvenience caused. In summary, it said:
The October 2018 changes werent processed as the ID details for Mrs M related to 
her RBS account. This wasnt acceptable under the banks internal guidelines. It 
apologised that Mr B had been given incorrect information by the branch manager 
about this.
The bank had actioned and honoured cheques signed by Mrs M as it didnt check all 
cheques issued. It had processes in place to ensure any fraudulent cheques were 
recovered.
The July 2019 changes werent processed as per the banks letter of 12 July 2019. 
While Mr B believed Mrs M was an authorised signatory, she wasnt  so authority 
was still needed from one other authorised signatory. So while accepting the 
frustration this position caused, it still needed both the minutes of the meeting and 
the signature of a second authorised signatory.
The bank had sought to contact Ms F about the July 2019 changes as it still had her 
recorded as an authorised signatory. And it had contacted Ms F by email, rather than 
Mr B, due to errors in how it had set up the relevant customer profiles. 
Mr Bs concerns hadnt been properly addressed at the outset and there had 
subsequently been delays in answering his points and finding a way forward.
To put things right, NatWest offered S compensation of £500 for the inconvenience caused. 
But it said that it couldnt just make the changes that Mr B had instructed  it still needed:
A properly completed mandate to add Mrs M and Mr P to the account and remove 
Ms F and Mr R;
Minutes of the meeting where it was agreed that Mr P was to be added and Mr R was 
to be removed;
Verification of Mrs Ms identity; and
A New Account Sanctioner form to be completed by the branch. 
Mr B didnt accept NatWests response. He replied to the bank with a number of points, 
highlighting that the reason Mrs Ms signature wasnt acceptable in July 2019 was down to 
NatWests errors with the previous request. He also said that the banks mandate form didnt require copies of minutes where at least two signatories would be left on the account  as 
was the case here. And he said that it wasnt possible for Mrs M to visit the branch to verify 
her identity, as she was no longer contactable for church business. So he thought the bank 
should just implement the changes without further delay.
NatWest, though, said that its position remained the same. So Mr B referred the complaint to 
us and it was reviewed by one of our investigators. She agreed that NatWest had made a 
number of errors, but she thought it had accepted responsibility for those where appropriate 
and that £500 was fair compensation for the inconvenience caused. And she said the 
mandate still needed to be completed in line with the banks requirements  so she couldnt 
tell the bank to just process the changes as Mr B wanted. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. In particular, he said that S was now in the 
position where only one of the original authorised signatories (himself) was still a trustee. So 
there was no way for the mandate form to be signed by two of the original signatories as was 
being requested. He also maintained that the mandate forms showed that minutes of the 
meetings werent required in the circumstances of the two requests at issue here. And for 
the trouble caused by its errors, he thought the banks offer of £500 remained insufficient.
So with no resolution, Ss complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Ss complaint last month, setting out why I thought 
NatWest needed to do more to put things right. I said:
The mandate paperwork for the October 2018 request to remove Ms F and add Mrs M 
was completed correctly. The form contained a declaration which said that:
Existing accounts only  
two existing authorised signatories must sign in the boxes below;
where only one existing authorised signatory remains, they must sign in the 
box below along with a new authorised signatory and a copy of the minutes of 
the meeting giving authority to the new authorised signatory, must be 
enclosed;
if there are no longer any existing authorised signatories remaining, two new 
authorised signatories must sign the boxes below and a copy of the minutes 
of the meeting giving authority to the new authorised signatories, must be 
enclosed.
I understand that there were four signatories on Ss account at the time of the request. 
One of those existing signatories was being removed under the proposed change  so 
three would remain. Two of those existing signatories signed the form. The forms 
wording specifies that the meeting minutes would be required when one (or fewer) 
existing signatories were to remain. So  based on the wording of the form alone  it 
doesnt seem the bank required the minutes in order to implement this change.
In any event, Mr B did provide the minutes on this occasion in order to expedite the 
change. That only left the requirement to verify Mrs Ms identity. The mandate had a 
section for branch use only, which included notes on the differing ID processes for new 
and existing bank customers. This shows that the branch staff who completed the form 
deemed Mrs M an existing customer  which I understand was due to the fact she was a customer of RBS. The new customer processes were therefore marked N/A, with 
a box ticked to record that Mrs M was a verified existing bank customer and that a 
copy of appropriate paperwork confirming this was attached.
This, it transpires, was an error on NatWests part. When reviewed by the appropriate 
department, it was determined that the bank couldnt rely on the existing ID verification 
from RBS after all, and would have to treat Mrs M as a new customer for these 
purposes. So it wrote to Mr B and asked him for this additional information. Mr B says 
he then took this up with the branch manager who advised him that the existing RBS 
ID verification was sufficient  and that Mrs M would therefore be able to act as a 
signatory within 48 hours. I have no reason to dispute Mr Bs recollection of events, 
and I note the bank has accepted what he says. So theres a further error on the 
banks part here. 
I think it was reasonable for Mr B  and therefore S  to rely on the misinformation and 
assume that the changes had been implemented. All the more so as he didnt receive 
any follow-up letters to chase the outstanding information, and as cheques that Mrs M 
subsequently signed were successfully processed without question. It also seems to 
me that the bank ought still to have proceeded with the request to remove Mrs F, 
which doesnt seem to have dependent on any issues with the addition of Mrs M. 
These errors didnt lead to any loss or inconvenience for S at the time. The cheques 
were being issued by people that S wanted to act on its behalf. And as its instructions 
were being carried out, this wasnt causing S any trouble either. I can see how the fact 
this wasnt picked up earlier, and that the cheques were processed when they ought 
not to have been, wouldve given Mr B cause for concern about the banks processes 
when the issue came to light in July 2019. But it didnt actually lead to any 
unauthorised transactions at the time.
It was only when the second change to the mandate was requested that any significant 
problems arose. It was then discovered that the first change hadnt been effected, so 
Mrs M wasnt actually a signatory to the account. And as she wasnt a signatory, 
NatWest couldnt accept her authority to process the second change. It had Mr Bs, but 
it would need one of the other signatories to countersign. The bank has said, though, 
that even if another signatory authorised the change, it still wouldnt have been 
approved  as it would also need copies of the minutes from the meeting at which the 
changes to the account were agreed.
Mr B doesnt think that the meeting minutes were required. Looking at the form used 
for the second change, it contains the same wording about these requirements as that 
of the first form quoted above. That wording suggests that meeting minutes would only 
be required when fewer than two existing authorised signatories would remain. That 
wasnt the case here. 
Ive asked NatWest to clarify why it required the meeting minutes. As Mr B has also 
spotted, Ive noted reference to legal obligations and enquired as to the finer detail of 
these. But the bank has declined to point to any particular rule or law that required it to 
see the meeting minutes in the circumstances here. Rather, its just reiterated that it 
requires the minutes as per charities commission, in order to understand the 
decisions made. This isnt enough to demonstrate that this is a requirement that the 
bank must comply with, or even that its part of its own usual process. And as Im 
unsure of the basis on which the bank asked S to provide this information, Im not 
persuaded that the insistence on it was fair in the circumstances here.So I think NatWest made errors in how it handled both change requests. It ought to 
have rectified the first, by following up with Mr B and/or Mrs M to complete the 
requisite ID checks in order to add her as a signatory (and remove Mrs F). Its failure to 
do that prompted more problems when the second request was made. And  based on 
what Ive seen so far  it seems that the second change ought also to have been 
implemented. The requirement for the minutes need not have been a sticking point, as 
they dont seem to have been needed. And the issues with Mrs M couldve been 
overcome by simply asking Mr B to arrange for one of the other signatories to 
countersign the request. 
Things have moved on since the second request, with further changes to the trustees 
and account signatories adding some further complication to things. Ill come back to a 
way forward for the mandate later.
But as its clear to me that things have gone wrong, Ive gone on to consider the 
impact on S. I cant see that its suffered any financial losses. As above, cheques 
continued to be processed as it instructed. Im sorry to see that the issues may have 
prevented S from making donations elsewhere  but that doesnt seem to have caused 
a loss to S, which is all I could direct compensation for. 
S has, though, been put to some significant inconvenience in trying to put things right. 
Its had to engage with the bank much more than it should in order to try and get both 
mandate changes implemented, with the end result that neither were actually effected 
and further work is still required. On top of additional calls and correspondence, I 
understand from what Mr B has said that hes also had to pay some of Ss creditors 
himself before seeking reimbursement from S. So its taken more time and trouble to 
complete some payments, too.
I appreciate that the matter has also been quite concerning for Mr B, and possibly his 
fellow trustees too. As above, cheques were processed when  technically  they 
ought not to have been. The bank wrote to Mrs F when S understandably thought 
shed been successfully removed from the account. And Im sure its been quite 
stressful for Mr B too. But I cant direct compensation to Mr B, or any of the other 
trustees, for any personal upset or stress they may have suffered. And as S isnt an 
individual, it cant have suffered any emotional distress.
This leaves the outstanding changes to the mandate. When the complaint was initially 
raised, I understand that Mr B was looking for the bank to simply put in place the 
changes proposed within the two requests. But due to further changes to the trustees, 
not all of the signatory changes are required now. S is no longer looking to add Mrs M 
as a signatory. But as I think the bank should already have removed Mrs F, I am 
intending to require it do so (if it hasnt already). 
As outlined above, the bank didnt receive the requisite authority to add Mr P and 
remove Mr R, so I dont think I can reasonably require it to simply make those changes 
now. As S is now looking to make other changes (I understand it also wishes to 
remove Mr M), it will need to complete the appropriate process to do so  within which 
its request to add Mr P can be included. But also as set out above, I think some of 
these issues couldve been avoided  it seems to me that the problems adding Mrs M 
couldve been overcome at the time, which in turn wouldve made some of these 
subsequent changes much easier to facilitate. It seems that a meeting will now need to 
be called, minutes taken and provided to NatWest as Mr B will end up being the only 
existing authorised signatory. And that continues to be more challenging in the current 
circumstances, given the pandemic-related restrictions that are in place. NatWest has already apologised and offered S compensation of £500. But weighing 
up all of the above and, in particular, considering the further avoidable inconvenience 
that S will likely be put to in order to bring about the desired changes, Im intending to 
require NatWest to pay a further £200 compensation on top of the £500 its already 
offered.
NatWest confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr B broadly accepted my provisional findings. He confirmed that the proposed way forward 
was acceptable, but asked for confirmation of the list of signatories that would exist at the 
time of the further mandate update request as they needed to be identified as part of the 
banks process. 
Mr B also asked that I require NatWest to change its process in light of the issues raised 
here, in order to ensure it was consistent with all the banks requirements and to avoid any 
future complications.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided me with any further information that leads me to think any 
differently about what happened or where things went wrong. So Ive not reached a different 
conclusion to that of my provisional decision.
In terms of putting things right, I understand it would be helpful for S to have confirmation of 
who the bank has listed as signatories on the account so that the further changes can be 
carried out as smoothly as possible. While Mr B has asked us to provide that, I think it is 
more properly a responsibility of NatWest  so I am also directing the bank to confirm the 
position to S when settling this complaint.
I understand Mr B would also like me to direct the bank to make changes to its internal 
processes, but that doesnt fall within our remit. Ive not looked at whether NatWests policies 
and procedures themselves are fair or reasonable; rather Ive assessed how S was treated 
in the individual circumstances of this dispute. Anything more would be a matter for the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. And so while I understand where Mr B is 
coming from, not least as he is concerned at the prospect of similar problems arising down 
the line, Im afraid I cant require NatWest to make changes to its processes. 
That said, we do expect financial businesses to learn from the decisions we issue. And 
ultimately  while I hope it wont prove necessary  S would have the right to raise a new 
complaint should it encounter any further problems in the future.
My final decision
I uphold Ss complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Remove Mrs F as a signatory to the account, if its not already done so;
Write to S with confirmation of the remaining account signatories within 14 days of 
removing Mrs F as above; and
Pay S compensation of £700.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman