DRN-2303877
The complaint
Miss S complains about how Santander UK Plc dealt with her chargeback.
What happened
Miss S asked Santander in 2019 to raise a chargeback for £50 which was a deposit she paid 
in around May 2019 and says didnt receive the service she was expecting. She says the 
company she paid the money to acted fraudulently but Santander reversed the chargeback 
which caused her account to be overdrawn. Miss S says she has lost about £250 and has 
been caused financial hardship and stress as a result of Santanders actions. She would like 
compensation for what took place and says Santander shouldnt have ended the 
chargeback. Miss S also complains that Santander agreed a repayment plan but didnt keep 
to it and caused further financial difficulties.
Santander says the merchant defended the chargeback and provided copies of an 
agreement between it and Miss S which said she was outside time limits for receiving the 
deposit back. Santander also says it told Miss S it would be debiting the £50 from her 
account. It says it also refunded overdraft charges but hasnt agreed a repayment plan with 
Miss S.
Miss S brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained the chargeback process and thought Santander acted fairly by concluding it 
couldnt take it any further and that it told Miss S it would be debiting the £50. The 
investigator didnt think there was evidence of an agreement between Miss S and 
Santander.
Miss S doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Santander has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and I dont require it do anything further in the circumstances of it. I appreciate that 
Miss S will be disappointed by my decision and how strongly she feels about what took place 
between her and the business she paid the deposit to.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme run by the card providers and not, as in this 
case, Santander. The rules are not set by Santander and a chargeback is not a right, but we 
would normally accept a bank or building society to raise a chargeback if there are 
reasonably grounds for doing so. Im satisfied that Santander did raise a chargeback for 
Miss S and credited her account with the disputed payment of £50 whilst it did so. The 
chargeback was defended by the merchant and it provided information to Santander which 
included a contract which said Miss S was outside the given time period for requesting a 
refund of the £50. So, Im satisfied that Santander reasonably concluded that it couldnt 
proceed any further with the chargeback. I have also seen the e-mail exchanges between 
Miss S and the merchant, and I think it clear Miss S told it that she was considering court 
proceedings and questioned if the merchant was misrepresenting its affiliation to a certain 
society. So, in those circumstances Im satisfied such matters couldnt have resolved under 
the chargeback scheme in any event.
I can see from Santanders records that it told Miss S that it couldnt continue with the 
chargeback and also told her that it would debit her account with the £50. Im satisfied that 
Santander made its position clear and gave Miss S time before it debited the money. I also 
think Santander made clear at the start of the chargeback process that it would debit the 
money if the chargeback was unsuccessful. So, Im satisfied that Santander has been clear 
about what would happen if the chargeback was unsuccessful and didnt make a mistake by 
re-debiting the £50.
I appreciate that Miss S also complains about the charges applied to her account, but I 
accept that isnt the main part of her complaint. I can see that Santander has refunded a 
number of its charges, but I cant see any evidence on Santanders records or from Miss S 
about any formal agreement for the repayment of the debt. So, I cant fairly conclude 
Santander has acted unfairly by acting outside any agreement. I also cant see any evidence 
from either party about any incorrect adverse information being reported to the Credit 
Reference Agencies and so I again I cant fairly conclude a mistake has been made or that 
Santander has acted unfairly.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander has dealt fairly with Miss Ss main complaint about the 
chargeback and told her it would be debiting the disputed £50 from her account. I find it was 
Miss Ss responsibility to make sure she had enough money in her account to avoid it 
becoming overdrawn and in any event, Santander fairly offered to refund the charge. Im 
satisfied this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do, and 
can see that Miss S has said she is considering court action in any event.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman