DRN-3365600
The complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) froze his personal 
credit card account and recorded adverse information at credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr B says his card was frozen when a restriction was placed on a charge card for his 
limited company. He says that it is a separate legal entity and freezing his personal account 
led to him being treated as if in default when his company borrowing defaulted in January 
2020.
The accounts were merged. The personal account was passed to debt collectors and then 
a third party. He wants to be compensated for the impact on his personal credit file and the 
stress caused to him. He says that Amex hasnt provided important information about his 
complaint as part of a subject access request.
Amex said it hadnt made a mistake. The liability for the borrowing on both the company 
and personal accounts lay with Mr B. When he reported he couldnt make payments to the 
company account in line with its terms and conditions it cancelled both accounts. It deemed 
Mr B a risk and potentially not able to pay the monies back. It ended the agreement in line 
with its terms and conditions as it said it had reasonable grounds to believe youre unable 
or unwilling to pay your debts when due.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Mr Bs 
personal account was cancelled in line with the terms and conditions of the account. He 
was jointly responsible for the company borrowing and this wasnt repaid. And in March 
2020 Amex told Mr B that the full balance on the personal account of some £2,354 was 
due and immediately payable. It was transferred to an outside agency. And as payments 
had been missed she understood a default was applied. She noted that Amex had told   
Mr B in February 2020 that hed need to provide identification for a subject access request. 
Amex said it had responded to this in March 2020 after he had given this. She didnt 
consider that compensation was appropriate.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that his account has been closed unlawfully and his credit file 
damaged. He saw his personal account as a separate one as his company is a distinct 
legal entity. He said that there was little point in operating a separate company if there was 
no protection for him. The account shouldnt have been frozen in November 2019. And this 
affected his ability to keep up with his personal borrowing. He wanted the period between
November 2019 and February 2020 to be considered too.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 14 February 2022. I set out below what I said.
Through our investigator I asked Mr B whether he could provide a copy of his personal 
credit file showing how this borrowing had been recorded and about whether it was paid off 
now. And for any other updates.
Mr B in response said that he didnt have a record for that period. He said that the 
personal borrowing was repaid by March 2021 as agreed and his personal account was 
marked as partially satisfied. He said that the company borrowing had been marked as 
defaulted, but he didnt say that this is what had happened to his personal borrowing.    
Mr B explained that when he rented a flat he needed a family member to act as a 
guarantor which caused distress and affected his health and wellbeing. He explained that 
although he had now had some information about his calls to Amex these are redacted 
and not complete.
I explained I was looking at Mr Bs personal complaint separately from the one about his 
company. I would deal with the points he makes on its behalf when I considered that 
complaint and I saw the issue about the calls as most relevant there. But there are 
overlaps which I would refer to.
There is also some conflicting information about when his account was frozen. And I 
wanted to start by setting out what he says happened as far as his personal account is 
concerned:
November 2019: due to the restriction on his company account he says that his 
personal account was frozen.
January 2020: Amex refers the account to a collection agency.
February 2020: Mr B agrees a payment plan at £214 per month on the full balance.
March 2020: Amex writes and says that the account is being cancelled again and referred 
to a different third party. The payment plan is cancelled by Amex after one payment. The 
new owner of the debt writes about payment options. A settlement figure is agreed with 
payments over 12 months.
April 2020: a payment is made on the account and payments were maintained.
Id looked at the information Amex had provided about his account. I could see from a 
statement issued on 13 January 2020 the account was reported as being 30 days overdue 
by £93. A minimum payment of £198 was due by 7 February 2020. I could also see that on 
the next statement it stated that the account had been cancelled and referred to a 
collections agency and that the full balance was due. That statement showed that on 25 
February 2020 Mr B had paid the £214 as he says he agreed to.
Id also reviewed the terms and conditions of the company account where these may be 
relevant to Mr B. Notably these state that:
For the American Express business card the business is jointly and severally liable with 
you to pay to us when due all charges on the account made by you and any 
supplementary cardmember. This means that we can demand payment of the entire 
balance owing on an American Express business card from you or the business.
my assessment
Amex decided to limit the company borrowing on 10 November 2019 and Id looked at the 
merits of that separately. I found Mr Bs description of what happened on his personal 
account to be reliableI appreciated that Amex clearly associated the company borrowing with him. And while 
from what I could see any demands on that borrowing were addressed to the company, 
when there were subsequent missed payments relating to a significant balance I thought 
Amex could be concerned about Mr Bs ability to repay his personal borrowing. Having 
said that the company was a separate legal entity and not in my view as implied in the 
condition above the same as Mr B  that condition to me is more relevant if for example 
hed been a sole trader.
So, I didnt think on what Id been provided with it was reasonable for Mr Bs personal 
account to be suspended in November 2019. And as Id set out above the account was 
overdue by January 2020 but only by 30 days. Id have expected Amex to discuss any 
personal payment issues with him and take into account his personal financial position. I 
considered that there were then potential grounds to be concerned about the account and 
to restrict its use. In my view Mr B came up with a reasonable payment plan for this 
personal borrowing: it seems that the payments he was offering and started to make were 
in excess of what any minimum payment would have been. I was struggling to see why it 
was necessary to tell Mr B that all the borrowing was immediately due. And not to leave 
this arrangement in place.
The debt was assigned to a third party along with the company borrowing. Amex was able 
to assign it in line with its terms and conditions. Mr B could if he wanted have offered to 
continue to repay all the personal borrowing. On his evidence he made an agreement to 
come to a partial settlement. I appreciated that he considers that what happened with his 
company would have affected his ability to pay. As I say Id looked at that separately, but I 
need to say here that I didnt find that such impact arose from any error by Amex.
So, if as I understood it the result is that his personal credit record shows a missed 
payment and a partial settlement of this personal borrowing then I didnt think thats an 
unfair result.
There shouldnt have been a personal default for this personal borrowing. If he is unhappy 
with the way the third party had since dealt with his borrowing he would need to take that 
up with it. His connection to the company as a director and so to any related adverse 
company information is also something I didnt have a basis to find is unfair. Mr B has 
explained he took advice from a professional about how to deal with this.
putting things right
I needed to think about the personal impact here on Mr B. Having done so I considered 
that he should be compensated for the actions of Amex Id described above which I didnt 
think were positive and sympathetic and as Id set out above seemed premature and not 
relating to his personal financial position. And so, I said I intended to require it to pay him 
£400 for the distress and inconvenience caused. I invited either Mr B or Amex to clarify the 
position regarding any credit reference agency reporting about the personal borrowing 
with suitable evidence if my understanding isnt correct as I hadnt seen the actual records.
I appreciated that given whats happened Mr B will still be disappointed by my conclusion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amex said it didnt have any further comments to make.Mr B said that while he was unable to clarify the position regarding any credit reference 
agency reporting the ramifications of the situation have been severe. He asked that I 
consider increasing the compensation to £500. Mr B said that the outcome of the process is 
incredibly disappointing, but he understood the reasoning and truly believed that if he had 
more complete records of the impact at the time the outcome would be dramatically different.
Ive reviewed what Mr B said. I can only reasonably make my assessment here supported by 
evidence and Ive taken into account what has been made available and had indicated what 
would have assisted me. I dont have anything new to look at. So, while I understand Mr Bs 
position, what he has been able to say hasnt affected my assessment of his complaint. And 
what hes said about compensation and his request for an increase has Im afraid not 
changed my mind about that either. I remain of the view that £400 is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) to pay Mr B £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman