DRN-3354223
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice he received from Marsh Ltd, a broker, about his travel 
insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr M had a home and contents policy with travel insurance as 
one of the additional cover options. He was aware that there was an upper age limit for 
the travel cover which was relevant for Mr Ms renewal in 2020.  
A month before renewal in 2020, Mr M contacted Marsh about the travel cover. It told 
him that the insurer had said that it can consider extending travel cover after the upper 
age limit on a case-by-case basis and asked him to complete a medical declaration form 
for onwards transmission to the insurer. Mr M completed the medical declaration form. 
The insurer didnt agree to extend Mr Ms travel cover. Its underwriter said initially that 
was because of Mr Ms medical history but the insurer subsequently corrected that and 
said that it was because Mr M had reached the upper age limit. Mr M complained to 
Marsh and moved his business to another broker. He also complained to the insurer. 
Mr M says that a few years before November 2019, he asked Marsh if he should arrange 
travel insurance with another insurer to build up some goodwill before 2019 and was 
assured by Marsh that the insurer of his existing policy would offer to extend his cover at 
the relevant time. In essence, Mr M says that Marsh should have been aware of the 
insurers approach to extension of cover beyond the upper age limit. He says that would 
have meant he could have avoided filling in the extensive medical questionnaire and 
would have had more time to seek alternative cover. Mr M wants Marsh to acknowledge 
its failings and to compensate him for his inconvenience. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt recommend that Mr Ms 
complaint be upheld. The investigator couldnt fairly say that Marsh acted unreasonably 
by not recommending that Mr M change travel insurers in the years leading up to the 
upper age limit. And he thought that Marsh relied on what the insurer said about the 
possibility of extending cover and acted reasonably in relaying the insurers request for 
medical information. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the investigator hadnt considered 
Marshs role as a professional adviser to a long term client. Mr M said that hed expect 
any competent broker to be aware of restrictions in cover applied by any of its panel 
insurers. He said that when he made enquiries of Marsh about the likelihood of the 
insurer continuing cover beyond the upper age limit, it advised him to continue with his 
cover and that it was confident the insurer would maintain cover beyond the upper age 
limit. Mr M says that Marsh should have been aware of the insurers approach to an 
individual of his age and with his medical history. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr M has strong feelings about this matter. Hes 
provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all this carefully 
and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that Mr M wont take as a 
discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think is the central issue in the case.
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution 
Rules. These rules say that I must make my decision by reference to what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, taking into account relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The parties are familiar with the relevant industry rules concerning Marshs obligations and 
duties as an insurance broker. And there are over-arching regulatory principles which are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system. Key 
relevant principles include having due regard to the interests of customers and treating them 
fairly and communicating in a way which is clear, fair, and not misleading. 
Mr M says that Marsh should have been aware that the insurer would decline his request to 
extend travel cover beyond the usual upper age limit. He says that Marsh should have 
anticipated the insurers response so that he could have built up goodwill and a claims free 
record with another insurer in advance of his exceeding the upper age limit of his travel 
cover. But the insurer appeared willing to consider Mr Ms request. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Marsh to take the insurers approach at face value and convey it to Mr M, 
together with the insurers requirements in relation to the provision of medical information. 
In essence, Mr M says that Marsh should have ignored what the insurer was saying  that it 
considered extensions to travel cover on a case-by-case basis  and concluded in advance  
of the insurers decision that it wouldnt extend cover. But in the particular circumstances 
here, when the insurer indicated it would consider the matter, I dont think that Marsh was at 
fault in proceeding as it did. 
I havent seen anything to support Mr Ms recollection that Marsh told him that the insurer 
would definitely offer an extension of cover beyond the usual upper age limit. That would be 
an unusual thing for a broker to say, particularly as insurance is a fluctuating market and 
theres no guarantee that an insurers position will remain the same from year to year.  
I dont think that Marsh is responsible for the insurers approach, which was to indicate that it 
was willing to consider Mr Ms application to extend cover then decide that it didnt wish to do 
so.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Marsh. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman