DRN-4245150
The complaint
Ms A complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services (BHL). 
What happened
In April 2022 Ms A acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement from BHL. The 
car was about 17 months old and had travelled 10,320 miles. The cash price of the car was 
£35,995. Ms A paid a deposit of £10,000, so the total amount financed on the agreement 
was £25,995 payable over 49 months.
Ms A said the day after shed collected the car she noticed the EML was illuminated. She 
said the dealership arranged for an inspection which diagnosed a problem with the Diesel 
Particulate Filter (DPF). Ms A said the car would also lose power when going uphill.
Ms A said she took her car in to a dealership garage without a courtesy car provided, and 
that the guarantee covered the cost of a replacement DPF costing around £2,000.
Ms A said that in February 2023 the dashboard blacked out for five seconds. She brought 
her car into the dealership the following day with no courtesy car available and said she was 
told by the dealership that the car required a software update, that it needed new brakes 
pads and had excess oil in it. 
Ms A said the software update was completed, the brake pads replaced, but that she 
brought it back to the franchised dealership for them to investigate the alignment of the 
brakes. Ms A also wasnt happy with the condition of the courtesy car or that it was an 
automatic transmission, despite her driving a manual.
Ms A explained that the whole situation has caused her some inconvenience, particularly as 
she is registered disabled and needs a vehicle for commuting to work and to help her family 
get to appointments.
In February 2023 BHL issued their final response to Ms As complaint which they upheld in 
part. They agreed that the DPF and EGR cooler required replacing so soon after supply. 
However, they didnt uphold the issue with the dashboard lights as they said the 
manufacturer confirmed it was not faulty, just that it required an update, and the brake pads 
BHL considered as wear and tear, particularly in consideration that Ms A had travelled 
around 9,000 miles since shed been supplied the car.
BHL offered to pay Ms A £115 for loss of use and compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. BHL also said theyd refund any taxi fares she incurred. Ms A said she wanted her 
money back and to get a new car through a different dealership.
Unhappy with their decision, Ms A brought her complaint to our service for investigation. In 
April 2023 Ms A gave an update on her car. She said after noticing a burning smell and 
smoke around the engine she arranged for her car to be brought into the franchised 
dealership, but there were no problems identified. Ms A says she believes this is a 
manufacturing fault and that she doesnt feel safe driving the car.
Having reviewed all the information on file, one of our investigators recommended that Ms 
As complaint should not be upheld.
BHL accepted this recommendation. Ms A didnt. She said the whole issue has affected her 
mental health and that she has major safety issues with her car. So, Ms A asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
In October 2023 Ms A told the investigator that she was involved in a serious traffic collision 
where the car had to be towed. Ms A was particularly concerned that the drivers airbag did 
not deploy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. BHL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that BHL supplied Ms A with a used car that had travelled over 10,000 
miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level 
of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
signs of wear and tear, potentially impacting its overall quality and reliability; so thered be an 
increased likelihood of unforeseen problems surfacing sooner than in a new vehicle.  
Having said that, the car was priced at £35,995 which isnt insignificant. It also wasnt a 
particularly old vehicle. So, I think it is fair to say that a reasonable person would expect it 
could offer a reasonable duration without any major issues, for example, especially if it has 
been well maintained and serviced.  
From the information provided Im persuaded there was a fault with the car. This is apparent 
from the case notes provided by BHL where the dealership has acknowledged the issues reported by Ms A and that the DPF was replaced. The dealership invoice also confirms a 
software update was carried out in February 2023, in addition to BHL acknowledging the 
DPF and EGR cooler being replaced soon after purchase. Having considered the car had a 
fault, Ive considered whether it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms A.  
satisfactory quality
In their final response BHL acknowledge the replacement of the DPF and EGR cooler soon 
after purchase, in May 2022. They upheld this part of Ms As complaint. Components like the 
EGR and DPF failing on a vehicle, priced at over £35,000 and that was less than two years 
old is unexpected, and I think is fair to say unreasonable, particularly as Ms A had the 
vehicle for less than a month. Im satisfied that the components werent suitably durable.
I dont think theres any dispute that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Ms A, however these issues were repaired the following month and without cost 
to Ms A. Under the CRA Im satisfied it was fair that the car was repaired for Ms A.
I acknowledge Ms A has provided an invoice showing the DPF was replaced in June 2023 
along with a new sensor; and I recognise Ms A may feel this is linked to the initial issue, 
however Ive not seen any evidence of why the DPF was replaced in June 2023 or that Ms A 
has paid for it or experienced any unreasonable inconvenience as a result. In addition, the 
invoice advised that following a road test the car was all ok. So, I dont think its reasonable 
to expect BHL to do anything more in relation to this.
Ms A has also advised of the dashboard cutting out, which the dealership applied a software 
update to; however, Ive seen no evidence that this problem was repeated. 
In relation to the other issues reported, for example the wearing of the brakes and oil overfill, 
as identified in a health check report dated February 2023, provided by Ms A, Im persuaded 
these are likely due to usage, wear and tear. The health check hasnt noted any suspected 
underlying issues or causes. At the time of the health check, Ms A had driven the car for 
about 9,000 miles from when it was supplied to her, so its likely the wear to the brakes was 
caused during this period of travel. In addition, Ms A also hasnt provided any evidence, for 
example in the form of a diagnostic or inspection report that the issues with the oil or brakes 
were as a result of any underlying issues. So, Im not persuaded these issues highlight an 
inherent or underlying fault, and so I wont be asking BHL to do anything in relation to it.
Ms A has recently advised our investigator, in October 2023, that she had concerns about 
the deployment of the airbag when she was involved in a collision. And I recognise this 
would have likely been a particularly stressful and worrying situation for Ms A to be in. I dont 
have any evidence which supports Ms As concerns about the airbag, and Im not aware that 
BHL have had an opportunity to consider these concerns. So, Ms A may decide to contact 
BHL about this so the appropriate action, if any, can be taken.
In their Final response, BHL offered to pay Ms A £115.53 to acknowledge the loss of use 
and for any distress and inconvenience caused. This included an 8% interest payment. BHL 
also offered to refund to Ms A any out of pocket expenses for taxi fares if she could provide 
evidence of the costs incurred. 
I recognise Ms A has said the whole experience has impacted her mental health and that 
there was insufficient consideration from BHL for her disability. However, Im not persuaded 
this was exacerbated or made worse as a result of how Ms A was treated. So, Im satisfied 
the resolution offered by BHL is fair in the circumstances and so I wont be asking them to do 
anything more in relation to this complaint.My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Ms As complaint against Black Horse Limited trading as Land 
Rover Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman