DRN-2983058
The complaint
Mr T complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) delayed the 
processing of his Tax-Free Cash payment from his pension plan, which resulted in him 
getting a lower amount because the value of his plan had fallen in the meantime.
What happened
Because our investigator set out the background and circumstances leading up to this 
complaint in detail and this wasnt disputed, I havent repeated everything here. So in 
summary:
On 17 March 2020 Mr T, through his financial adviser, made an electronic request to 
withdraw the maximum tax-free cash sum from his pension plan. Prudential acted on this 
request and it carried out some automatic checks as part of its payment request process. 
Because this check threw up an anomaly with some of Mr Ts personal data, the automatic 
payment process couldnt take place. On the same day, as part of its manual process, 
Prudential contacted Mr Ts financial adviser to request some identification documentation 
from Mr T.
On 20 March 2020 Prudential says it received the required identification documentation from 
Mr Ts financial adviser. On the same day  Prudential says at mid-day  it applied a unit 
price adjustment to Mr Ts pension fund, which reduced the unit price and value of his fund.
On 26 March 2020 Prudential confirmed in writing that it had processed Mr Ts tax-free cash 
withdrawal and that he would receive payment direct to his bank account within five working 
days. The letter gave the amount of the tax-free cash sum, which was around £10,000 less 
than the amount Mr Ts financial adviser had keyed in when he made the electronic request 
on 17 March 2020.
Mr T complained to Prudential in April 2020 about the loss in value. Prudential replied in two 
letters of May 2020. In summary Prudential said that it had followed due process in carrying 
out Mr Ts request and actioned things in a reasonable timescale. It said it required 
identification documentation from Mr T to complete the transaction. And that unfortunately 
between the request being submitted and the documentation being received the adjustment 
to the fund price occurred, which resulted in the lower tax-free cash sum being paid.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr T brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
One of our investigators looked at all of this. And they concluded that Prudential hadnt done 
anything wrong. In summary they said Prudential was entitled to carry out identification 
checks before processing Mr Ts withdrawal request. They also said they thought Prudential 
was entitled to apply a reduction to the unit price of Mr Ts pension fund. And while it was 
regrettable this was applied before Mr Ts withdrawal request was processed, Prudential 
wasnt at fault for Mr T receiving a lower tax-free cash sum than he was expecting.
Because Mr T disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know Mr T will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. My reasons are set out below.
I can see from Prudentials readout of its electronic system that on 17 March 2020 Mr Ts 
financial adviser made a payment request for Mr T to receive a tax-free cash lump sum from 
his pension plan. I can also see that on the same day Prudential carried out the automatic 
checks it referred to when processing the transaction. This involved carrying out an 
identification check using external credit reference agency searches. 
Prudential says this automatic check process failed because the search highlighted a 
discrepancy with Mr Ts personal information or data held  so it had to proceed with things 
on a manual basis. And in support of this I can see that the electronic readout says that 
some identification documentation was required from Mr T. So I accept its possible, as 
Prudential says that it was as a result of the credit reference agency search which resulted in 
Prudential requiring further identification documentation from Mr T. 
But I can also see that, in 2019 following some remedial work Prudential carried out, it asked 
Mr Ts financial adviser to provide it with some identification documentation for Mr T to help 
verify his details. This was to correct an oversight when the account was opened. But 
because Prudential didnt receive anything it made a note on Mr Ts file to say that any future 
payment requests, including tax-free cash withdrawals would need to be supported with 
some identification documentation. So I also think it's possible it was this, which triggered 
the failed automatic check process.
But regardless of the reason, Im satisfied that Prudential was within its right to carry out 
appropriate identification checks to satisfy its requirements before making payment to Mr T. 
And so I think it acted fairly and reasonably here.
So did Prudential act in a timely manner in both requesting and then processing the 
identification documentation?
Prudential requested the additional identification information from Mr Ts adviser on 17 
March 2020  the same day the payment request was made. So it acted promptly here. 
Prudential says it received the necessary documentation on 20 March 2020. And I can see a 
date stamp on the documentation, which supports this. Mr Ts payment request was then 
processed or authorised on 26 March 2020 (four working days after receipt of the 
documentation) and he received payment on 1 April 2020. 
In general terms I dont think four working days to process things is unreasonable. And given 
Prudentials terms and conditions applicable to Mr Ts pension plan say that payments will 
be facilitated as soon as reasonably practical after we have received all of the 
documentation we require. I dont think four working days is at odds with this either. So I 
dont think there was an unreasonable delay here. But in between Mr T making his withdrawal request and Prudential processing it, Prudential 
applied a unit price reduction to Mr Ts fund his pension was invested in. And this in turn 
reduced the overall value of Mr Ts pension. The consequence of this was a not insignificant 
difference to the amount of tax-free cash Mr T was able to access.
I can understand why Mr T was upset by this  he received somewhere in the region of 
£10,000 less than hed hoped for. But Prudential was allowed to make this adjustment to the 
unit price  it was an integral feature of the fund to allow Prudential to manage the 
investment returns. And it could do this at any time. Because of the uncertainty around the 
investment market at the time in question, it doesnt surprise me that Prudential took this 
action. And while as I say this must have been frustrating for Mr T, the reduction in value 
was down to timing and investment market performance  it wasnt a result of anything 
Prudential did wrong or because it acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T. 
So I wont be telling Prudential to honour the original value as at the request date as Mr T 
wants.
In conclusion  Im satisfied Prudential was entitled to carry out appropriate identification 
checks before making payment to Mr T. Ive found there was no unreasonable delay in 
Prudential actioning the payment request once the required documentation was received. 
And while the value of Mr Ts fund reduced in value during the period in which the withdrawal 
request was being processed, this was due to market conditions and Prudentials application 
of an adjustment to the unit price of Mr Ts fund, which wasnt unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons above Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  so I make no award in Mr 
Ts favour.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman