DRN-2107436
The complaint
Ms D complains that Fairmead Insurance Ltd (Fairmead) avoided her home insurance policy 
in 2016. She says it has unfairly reported this, which has detrimentally affected her ability to 
obtain insurance subsequently.
What happened
On 27 December 2015 Ms D took out a new home insurance policy. This policy was taken 
out with a company that Ill refer to here as B. But its underwritten by Fairmead. 
Prior to the policy being incepted, Ms D was asked to answer a number of questions online  
one of which was in the past five years have you or anyone else living with you made any 
buildings, content or personal belongings claims, or suffered any loss or damage (regardless 
of whether a claim was made or not? Ms D answered this question No.
After the policy had been incepted Fairmead discovered that Ms D had made four claims 
during 2014. And it asked her why she hadnt disclosed these claims prior to purchasing her 
insurance. Ms D told Fairmead shed made an error in not declaring her claim history. She 
said this had been due to personal issues with her son and her health and the stress she 
was under at the time. 
On 27 September 2016, Fairmead avoided Ms Ds insurance cover. It informed her that, as 
shed misrepresented her claims history, it was entitled to avoid her policy in accordance 
with its terms and conditions. And it explained that it didnt provide cover to anyone whod 
made more than one claim per section of cover in the last five years.
In December 2019 Ms D complained to Fairmead about it avoiding her policy. She said she 
hadnt intended to mislead it or to gain any advantage. And she said the punitive effect of it 
avoiding her policy was unfair as she was still experiencing financial detriment when taking 
out policies with other insurers years later.
When Fairmead responded to Ms Ds complaint it didnt uphold it. It said shed carelessly 
misrepresented her claims history and, had it known the correct information, it wouldnt have 
offered her any cover. Fairmead also informed Ms D it had a duty to record that it had 
avoided her policy so that other insurers were aware.
Being dissatisfied with Fairmeads response to her complaint, Ms D referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. But they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. They were persuaded Ms D had made a careless misrepresentation and, had 
Fairmead known her claims history, it wouldnt have offered her cover. They said it was fair 
for Fairmed to avoid the policy and record that information. But Ms D disagreed and asked 
an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So, Im not going 
to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Where a complaint arises from non-disclosure of information important to an insurer, our 
service considers the appropriate legislation including The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care and, if they did, the options available to the insurer. The considerations 
include whether: 
- the consumer took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
- the information was important to the insurer and, if it had been given, would affect whether 
a policy was offered or its terms, known as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
If the policyholder made a qualifying misrepresentation without taking reasonable care then 
we consider whether they did so deliberately or recklessly, or carelessly. 
Ive addressed each of these considerations in turn. 
Did Ms D take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation? 
Its important when looking at this to decide if the insurer asked a clear question when the 
policy was taken out. 
In this case, prior to Ms D taking out her policy, she was asked in the past five years have 
you or anyone else living with you made any buildings, content or personal belongings 
claims, or suffered any loss or damage (regardless of whether a claim was made or not? 
Ms D hasnt disputed that question was asked and indeed its not uncommon for an insurer 
to ask a potential customer about their claims history. Im therefore satisfied this question 
was asked. I also think the question asked was clear. I say this because there can be no 
misunderstanding of what that question was asking. And Im satisfied the question placed 
the onus on Ms D to take reasonable care in answering it not to make a misrepresentation. 
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Ms D accepts she made an error in not 
declaring her claims history. She says this was due to the stress she was under at the time 
and personal issues with her son and her health. I have sympathy with Ms D  I can see 
shes been through a difficult time. But I think she ought to have been reasonably aware that 
shed made four claims during 2014. The question about her claims history was clear. There 
are only two possible answers and, I dont think she took reasonable care in answering this 
question.
Did Ms D make a qualifying misrepresentation? 
Fairmead has explained its acceptance criteria for offering cover is such that it doesnt 
provide cover to anyone whos made more than one claim per section of the policy in the last 
five years. So, had it known Ms Ds claims history, it wouldnt have offered to insure her. This means that Ms Ds previous four claims in 2014 was information which was important to 
Fairmead and would have changed whether the policy was offered to her. Im therefore 
satisfied Ms Ds misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Was the misrepresentation deliberate, reckless or careless? 
Fairmead has treated Ms Ds misrepresentation as careless. Shes explained that she failed 
to declare her claims history due to personal issues with her son and her health and the 
stress she was under at the time. Shes also said she didnt withhold this information to gain 
an advantage. I think Fairmeads decision to treat Ms Ds misrepresentation as careless 
rather than deliberate or reckless, was the best possible outcome for her in the 
circumstances.
As Im satisfied Ms Ds misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions Fairmead can take in accordance with CIDRA. In these circumstances, the law 
allows Fairmead to avoid the policy from the misrepresentation, when she incepted her 
policy, and not deal with any claims. It must then return any unused premiums the consumer 
paid. 
Here, I understand that when Fairmead took the decision to avoid Ms Ds policy it decided to 
do so from the inception date. It also returned the premium shed paid to B so that it could 
refund her directly. Im sorry to disappoint Ms D. But, in the overall circumstances of this 
complaint, Im satisfied Fairmeads decision to avoid her policy was reached reasonably and 
in line with CIDRA. Im also persuaded that, in returning the premium Ms D had paid, 
Fairmead acted in line with CIDRA and as our service would expect. 
I can well understand Ms Ds upset about what has happened. But Fairmead is entitled to 
decide who it does or does not wish to insure and as this is a commercial decision its not 
one our service can interfere with.
Ms D has asked our service to tell Fairmead to remove information its recorded that shows it 
avoided her policy. I realise that this information stays on Ms Ds record indefinitely  its 
already impacted on her ability to obtain reasonably priced insurance elsewhere and will 
continue to do so in the future. But Fairmead is required to provide accurate information 
about policies that its avoided so that other insurers are aware. It hasnt made an error in 
doing so. So, I cant ask it to remove this information it as its a true reflection of what 
happened. 
I know Ms D will be disappointed with this decision. But I think that Fairmead has acted fairly 
and reasonably and Im not going to be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman