DRN-4495071
The complaint
Mrs R complains that some advice she received about making pension contributions, from 
an appointed representative of Openwork Limited trading as The Openwork Partnership 
(Openwork), was incorrect.
What happened
The advice that forms the subject of this complaint was given by an appointed representative 
of Openwork. In this decision, for ease, I will simply refer to the business as Openwork 
throughout.
Mrs R has been assisted in making this complaint by her accountant, and by her husband. 
I am also dealing with a similar complaint made by Mrs Rs husband (Mr R) about identical 
advice that he received from Openwork about making pension contributions. Again for ease, 
in this decision I will simply refer to any communications as if they have been with, and from, 
Mrs R herself. And given the very similar nature of the advice provided to Mrs R and her 
husband, I am sure both parties will understand the inherent similarities in the provisional 
decisions I issued on both complaints.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2023. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Openwork needed to do in order to 
put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mrs R, along with her husband, is a director and owner of a company. They 
approached Openwork in October 2021 to seek advice about the company making 
pension contributions on their behalf to a new personal pension plan. Given the funds 
the company had available at that time Openwork advised Mrs R that the company 
should make a single contribution of £247,500. Similar advice was provided to Mr R. 
Mrs R accepted the advice and the company paid the required pension contribution.
Shortly afterwards Mrs Rs accountant noticed that the advice shed been given was 
incorrect. Even allowing for the ability to carry forward past unused allowances, the 
maximum contribution that could be paid into Mrs Rs pension plan that year was 
£160,000. So, as a result, Mrs R says she became liable for a tax charge of 
£30,873.60. That charge was due for payment in January 2023, but Mrs R has not 
had the means to make any payment. So she has incurred late payment penalties 
and interest, and has recently been contacted by debt collectors regarding the 
outstanding balance.
Openwork accepted that the advice it provided to Mrs R was incorrect and failed to 
take account of the annual contribution limits. So it offered to pay her compensation 
for the tax charge she would need to pay. But it said it would reduce that 
compensation to reflect the corporation tax saved by her company, and the income 
tax she has saved by having the excess contributions paid into her pension rather 
than being paid as dividends or salary. So it said it would be willing to pay 
compensation for the tax charge amounting to £14,248.60. It also said it would pay 
Mrs R £1,050 for the additional accountancy fees she has incurred, and a further 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience she had been caused. Mrs R didnt accept 
that offer so brought her complaint to us.
Openwork has accepted that the advice it gave to Mrs R was incorrect, and as a 
result she has incurred a significant taxation charge. So what I need to decide is what 
should be done in order to put things right. There appears to be no dispute about the 
amount of the tax charge that Mrs R has incurred  that has been assessed and set 
out by HMRC. What I need to consider is whether there are other factors that need to 
be considered to ensure that Mrs R is not unduly enriched by any compensation that 
will be paid.
Ive thought carefully about what would have happened if nothing had gone wrong. It 
seems that both parties accept that the advice Mrs R should have received would 
have been for a pension contribution of £160,000 to be made by her company. That 
would have been within the annual allowance (including that carried forward from 
previous years) permitted by HMRC. So it seems clear that Mrs Rs pension savings 
have been increased above where they would have been at that time. And the profits 
of the company will have been reduced by the payment of a higher than allowed 
pension contribution so potentially saving some corporation tax liability.
But Mrs R has provided what I currently consider to be a plausible explanation why 
neither of those factors should be used to reduce the compensation that is payable. 
She has said that in order to make the pension contribution the company decided to 
defer some investment in new equipment that had been planned. I have no reason to 
doubt that is the case and her testimony is supported by her accountant who has 
said similar investments had been made in the past. And if instead the monies had 
been used to purchase new equipment, the annual investment allowance means no 
additional corporation tax liability would have arisen from the retention of the excess 
payment.
And Mrs R has explained that, had better advice been provided, she would have 
asked the company to spread her pension contributions over a three-year period and 
managed the investment in new equipment to mirror the additional funds that made 
available to the company in the initial year. So the amount that was added to her 
pension savings is the same as she would have ultimately held, albeit they will 
potentially benefit from some tax efficient investment returns that might be achieved 
over the following two years. And there is no indication, for the same reasons, that 
Mrs R would have taken any additional income either as salary or dividends from the 
company if the pension payments had been correctly spread over multiple years.
I have considered that Mrs R is now in the position that she could continue to make 
further contributions to her pension utilising the allowances that would otherwise 
have been used for the original contribution if it had been spread over a number of 
years. And I cannot discount that might happen. But I dont think it reasonable to 
reduce any compensation on that basis. So I dont think that making the excess 
contribution will mean Mrs R is unduly enriched in terms of the amount she holds in 
her pension savings.
So Im not currently persuaded that there are any reasonable grounds to offset other 
saved expenses against the compensation I think should be paid to Mrs R for the tax 
charge that is due. So as I set out below I think Openwork should pay Mrs R 
compensation equal to the entire tax charge of £30,873.60 that HMRC has assessed 
is due.But I dont think that should be the end of my consideration of the redress. The tax 
charge was due to HMRC in January 2023, but Mrs R says that she doesnt have 
sufficient funds to make that payment. Again I have no reason to doubt what she 
says. So HMRC has levied late payment penalties on that charge and continues to 
add interest to the outstanding balance. I think it fair that Openwork should pay Mrs R 
compensation equivalent to those charges too.
I have considered that Openwork warned Mrs R in January 2023, when it made its 
compensation offer to her, that it wouldnt consider it was responsible for any interest 
or penalties levied by HMRC for late payments. It told Mrs R that it might be possible 
for her to pay the tax charge out of her pension savings using what is called a 
Scheme pays option.
But I dont agree that would have been a fair approach. Mrs Rs pension savings are 
intended to provide her with an income in her retirement. Reducing their value to pay 
a tax charge might not be in her best interests. I have considered that it would be 
possible to replace those pension savings in the future through additional 
contributions  as Mrs R says would have been made had better advice been 
provided. But I think that misses the point that the company has already paid the 
contribution, and might not have sufficient funds in the future (or it be appropriate in 
terms of spending priorities) to make additional contributions to Mrs Rs pension 
savings.
As I have explained above, I think the offer that Openwork made to Mrs R was 
insufficient. So Mrs R would have been unable to pay the tax charge when it became 
due. That charge only arose as a result of the incorrect advice she had been given by 
the firm. So I consider that Openwork is reasonably liable for the interest and penalty 
charges that HMRC has added to the amount Mrs R needs to pay. But the excess 
pension contribution in the first year might have generated some investment returns. 
I think any returns of that nature should be partially, or fully, offset against this part of 
the compensation.
 
I have considered the charge that Openwork levied for the advice it gave to Mrs R. 
That charge was calculated as being 2% of the contribution that was made on her 
behalf. Given that the redress I am proposing here will leave Mrs R with the entire 
contribution in her pension savings, I dont think it unreasonable that she should pay 
the full advice charge. So Im not intending to award any compensation in regard of 
the advice charge she has paid.
I understand that Mrs R, and her accountant, have been visited by debt collectors 
seeking repayment of the amount due to HMRC. I can only imagine how distressing 
that might be for them. So I think it reasonable that Openwork should pay Mrs R 
some additional compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has suffered. 
In the circumstances here I currently think an additional payment of £800 is 
warranted.
In summary I currently think Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. I think the incorrect 
advice she received from Openwork has caused her to face a tax liability of 
£30,873.60. And Im not persuaded that there are other savings such as reductions in 
corporation tax due, or other income tax that would have been paid by Mrs R, to 
warrant any reduction in the compensation Openwork should pay.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mrs R has said that she agrees with my provisional findings. Openwork 
has asked for clarification on some of the findings I made.In particular Openwork says it doesnt agree that it was fair for Mrs R to not use the scheme 
pays option to mitigate the losses she is claiming she has incurred. It says that it thinks that 
is precisely why that option has been put in place, particularly given Mrs R did not have 
sufficient funds of her own to pay the outstanding tax charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint Ive taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also 
carefully considered the submissions that have been made by Mrs R and by Openwork. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
And I repeat my reflections on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate 
or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I set out in my provisional decision why I didnt think it was reasonable to expect Mrs R to 
use the scheme pays option to settle the outstanding taxation charges. But given the 
questions posed by Openwork I provide some further rationale behind those findings.
I have found, and Openwork accepts, that an error was made in the advice it gave to Mrs R. 
But as I explained in my provisional decision I dont think the long-term impact of that error 
would have seen Mrs R have more in her pension savings than she otherwise might have. 
Although the initial contribution she made was in excess of her annual allowance, she could 
have achieved similar levels of pension savings by asking the company to make a smaller 
initial contribution followed by further contributions utilising her annual allowance in the 
following years.
The impact of using the scheme pays option to pay the outstanding tax charge would have 
been to see a reduction in the amount of Mrs Rs pension savings. I accept that she could 
have used the refund of the tax charge that I am directing Openwork to pay here to add back 
those missing pension savings. But at the time the charge was due, that wasnt money that 
she was certain to receive. The initial offer that Openwork had made to Mrs R, to 
compensate her for its error, was significantly less than the tax charge she was being asked 
to pay. 
Had Openwork made, at the outset, what I would consider to have been a fair offer of 
compensation to Mrs R, then I would agree that using the scheme pays option might have 
been a reasonable expectation. But in saying that, a fair offer of compensation would have 
allowed Mrs R to settle the outstanding tax charges directly. 
So my only reasonable conclusion here is that the HMRC penalties and interest have only 
arisen, firstly because of the incorrect advice that Openwork gave to Mrs R, and then 
because it failed to offer her what I would consider to be fair compensation. So I am not minded that I should change the compensation approach that I set out in my provisional 
decision and that I repeat below for clarity.
Mrs R has provided us with updated estimates of the penalties interest that has accrued on 
the outstanding tax charge. But Openwork should liaise with Mrs R to determine the final 
amount that will be due when it makes the settlement I set out below.
Putting things right
To put things right, Openwork should;
repay to Mrs R the entire amount of the annual allowance tax charge that has been 
levied by HMRC.
it should also repay to Mrs R any penalties or interest that have been added to that 
charge by HMRC for late payment. Openwork may reduce the interest or penalty 
payments by the value of any investment returns Mrs R received on the excess 
contribution added to her pension savings.
it should, as it previously offered, pay Mrs R compensation equal to half of the 
accountancy fees reasonably incurred by Mr and Mrs R as a result of this matter (the 
other half will be awarded as part of the redress on Mr Rs complaint). In response to 
my provisional decision Mrs Rs accountant estimated the total charges that have 
been incurred to be £1400 + VAT.
Openwork should pay Mrs R £800 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint and direct Openwork Limited trading as 
The Openwork Partnership to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman