DRN-2569196
The complaint
Miss M doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) to use the majority her 
payment protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which she was 
discharged when her protected trust deed came to an end.
What happened
RBS sold Miss M four loans, two of which with PPI. Recently, Miss M contacted RBS to 
complain that the two PPI policies were mis-sold. RBS wrote to Miss M to say both of the 
policies had been mis-sold. On 23 and 24 September 2020 RBS wrote to Miss M  it sent 
her a separate letter for each policy  and offered to refund the money shed paid for PPI 
with simple interest at 8% per year. It included a form with each letter for Miss M to sign and 
return if she wanted to accept the offer. Miss M signed and returned both the forms.
Below, Ive explained how much compensation was payable for each policy (after tax):
Loan account ending 5842: £10,326.63
Loan account ending 3193: £2,604.56. 
In total, Miss M was owed £12,931.19 (after tax).
However, Miss M granted a trust deed  which became protected  for her creditors in 
November 2005.
A protected trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and their creditors, which is 
administered by a trustee. The consumer transfers their property to the trustee, who has the 
power to collect and realise assets, and distribute the estate among creditors according to 
the respective rights and preferences. The right to compensation for a mis-sold policy is, as 
an asset, usually vested in  or transferred to  the trustee for the benefit of the creditors. A 
trust deed will invariably include provisions relating to the discharge of the consumer for their 
debts, the restoration to them of any surplus and the discharge of the trustee.
Miss M owed RBS £21,831.77 when she was granted her trust deed, and it received 
payments from her trustee totalling £13,363.83. Miss M still owed RBS £8,467.94 when she 
was discharged from her trust deed in November 2008.
RBS has kept a sufficient amount of Miss Ms PPI compensation to pay off this debt and paid 
her a total of £4,463.25 being the remaining balance of the compensation after the debt was 
paid off. 
Miss M doesnt think this is fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct authority (FCA) Handbook to 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The relevant law in this case is Scots law.
In a case very similar to this complaint, the Inner House of the Court of Session held that a 
business couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which she 
was discharged when her trust deed came to an end. The case is called Donnelly v Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc [2019] CSIH 56. And the Supreme Court refused permission to appeal. 
However, when the business learned it had lost its appeal, it asked the Outer House of the 
Court of Session  in Royal Bank of Scotland v Donnelly [2020] CSOH 106  to set aside or 
undo the consumers discharge. This would re-open the trust proceedings and allow it to 
assert its right of set-off.
The court held that the trustees failure to pursue the PPI claims for the benefit of the 
consumers creditors was clearly a mistake. As such, the court said it could and usually 
would set aside the consumers discharge  unless there were exceptional circumstances 
which would make it inconvenient and unjust. In that case, the court concluded that there 
were exceptional circumstances and refused to reverse the consumers discharge. It took 
into account a number of factors, including: the time that had passed since the consumers 
discharge; the duration of, and misery caused by, the protracted litigation; the fact that the 
outstanding sum was paltry from the businesss perspective (and in proportion to the legal 
fees likely to have been incurred) but not an insignificant sum for the consumer; and, that 
there would be adverse consequences for the consumer and no means to alleviate them.
What does this mean for Miss M?
Simply put, on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are the 
same as those in this case, RBS couldnt plead set-off in court unless the court first set 
aside Miss Ms discharge. And, of course, the court may decide not to do this. 
That said, I must apply an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case.
And I think its fair for RBS to use Miss Ms PPI compensation to reduce the money owed 
and left unpaid when her trust deed came to an end.When two people  or a person and a business  owe each other money, it seems only fair 
that they each pay what they owe.
Fortunately, I dont need to worry about the practical and procedural difficulties of reversing 
Miss Ms discharge. She was discharged from her trust deed in November 2008. Nothing I 
can say will change that. 
Miss M has said that RBS is the only business that is using set-off in this way. I cant 
comment on what a different creditor would do. We look at each case on its own merits, and 
in this case, I dont think it would be fair for me to tell RBS to do the same as Miss M is 
suggesting.
Miss M has said she doesnt understand why RBS didnt bring the PPI to the attention of the 
trustees before it was discharged. She says they were the only people aware of the PPI. And 
she says if the compensation had been paid when the trust deed was ongoing, then it would 
have been shared with her other creditors.
In essence, Miss M says that because RBS didnt offset the PPI compensation as part of the 
trust deed, it may have received dividends that it wouldnt have received had it claimed for 
the lesser amount as these would have been paid to Miss Ms other creditors. 
But Im not persuaded this means it would be fair to pay this money to Miss M directly. I dont 
doubt that if RBS had claimed less in the trust deed it might have meant that more was paid 
to Miss Ms other creditors. But Im not concerned here with the respective position of RBS 
and the other creditors: Im looking at fair compensation for Miss Ms complaint about the 
sale of the PPI. That means focussing on the financial position Miss M would be in if she 
hadnt bought the PPI. 
The PPI was only a part of what Miss M borrowed. So, I think its likely that, if she hadnt 
bought the PPI, shed still have ended up in the trust deed. But shed have owed less. And 
thats the position RBSs offer puts her in.
Miss M has chosen to revisit something that happened before she granted her trust deed  
the sale of the PPI policies in 2002 and 2003. I think its only fair that I take into account what 
has happened since. Miss M owed RBS £8,467.94 when her trust deed came to an end. Her 
discharge relieved her of liability, but it didnt extinguish the underlying debt. I simply dont 
see how it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Miss M £12,931.19 when she owed and didnt 
repay more than £8,000. 
Whats more, if the trust had been administered without error  if Miss Ms trustee hadnt 
made the mistake of discharging her without first pursuing the PPI claims  RBS would have 
been able to assert its right of set off and keep her PPI compensation. 
I further note that RBS has offered to pay Miss M the difference between the amount that 
remained unpaid following the trust deed and the rest of the PPI compensation it worked out. 
Looking at what RBS has done, I think this approach is likely to be generous: much of this 
compensation was simple interest to compensate Miss M for the time shed been out of pocket. But it looks as though the amount Miss M didnt repay following the trust deed was 
greater than the amount Miss M actually paid for the policy. So, I think it would have been 
fair for RBS to take that into account when working out the interest it needed to pay. RBSs 
approach means that Miss M has instead been paid £4,463.25. I think thats more than fair in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
I think The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has offered fair compensation for mis-selling PPI. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use   
Miss Ms PPI compensation to reduce the money owed and left unpaid when her trust deed 
came to an end. 
My understanding is that £4,463.25 has already been paid to Miss M, being the amount 
remaining after the outstanding balance was cleared, but it should pay this to Miss M if it 
hasnt already. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman