DRN-2114874
The complaint
Mr N complains that he was unable to get through to Scottish Widows Limited (SW) by 
telephone to alter his pension investments, so lost out financially as a result. He also 
complains about delays in concluding a separate transaction.
 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr N wanted to convert his pension investments into cash to protect them 
from losses in the financial markets. He said he tried numerous times to call SW from 
13 March to instruct them to do this, but never had his calls answered.
On 2 April he used the online chat function of its website to instruct SW to make the transfer 
to cash. This was actioned by SW the following day and completed on 4 April.
On 6 April Mr N called SW as he wanted to access a lump sum from his pension, and an 
answer phone message instructed him to call a specific number if he wanted to do this. He 
called this number but the person answering it wasnt able to help him as he wasnt in the 
right department. 
He logged a complaint with SW and was called back two days later by a member of SWs 
complaints team, who explained they had completed his online request to transfer his 
investments into cash on 4 April, but were unable to action the telephone request he had 
made on 6 April as they had to evacuate the office, so his call had been transferred to 
someone else but they had been unable to help. SW arranged for a call back on 8 April to 
arrange the release of his funds. This transaction was completed on 16 April.
SW sent their final response to his complaint. They upheld his complaint and apologised to 
Mr N for the inconvenience he had experienced, but explained the office closures were as a 
result of COVID-19, and this had meant they had a greatly reduced number of staff available 
to help. So, because of this they wouldnt offer him any compensation as the circumstances 
were out of their control.
Mr N didnt agree so complained to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint 
as Mr N couldnt show when he had tried to get through on the phone, and SW had no 
records of him calling until 6 April. And he thought Mr N had the option of requesting the 
transfer online earlier than he eventually did, and felt the two days it took SW to action this 
online request was reasonable.
He acknowledged Mr Ns frustrations at not being able to get through to the right person on 
6 April, but thought the two days it took for SW to call him back, and the following six working 
days to action his drawdown request wasnt unreasonable. He didnt think SW should offer 
Mr N any compensation.
Mr N didnt agree. He said it was unfair that he wasnt being believed when he said he called 
SW. He also said that SW responded to his online request without making proper checks to 
ensure that the request was genuine, and had expected to be called back to validate it 
before the transfer was completed. And he found it unacceptable that SW had used a 
recorded message telling customers to call a specific number, but this office was closed. He 
thought SW should have deleted this message if the relevant office wasnt available.
SW were asked for their response to the question of their validation of his online request. 
They said they always accept requests for switches made this way, and they are verified by 
all the details that the customer has to enter within the message, and this is the same vetting 
as required on the telephone.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SW have acknowledged that Mr N was inconvenienced by some of their services being 
unavailable, but they said this was due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and as such was out of 
their control. But Mr N thinks he has lost out financially due to not being able to switch his 
investments into cash earlier than he did, and thinks he should be compensated for this, 
along with the stress he was caused and the time hes taken to resolve the issues, but Im 
afraid I dont agree. Ill explain why.
Firstly Ill address Mr Ns request to transfer his investments into cash to try and protect them 
against falls in the market. This is understandable, and I see no reason to doubt this was 
what he wanted to do. But I can only hold SW responsible for any loss in fund value if Im 
satisfied that the loss was caused because either he was reasonably unable to contact them 
in order to give his instructions, or they ignored his instructions to conduct the switch.
Mr N says he repeatedly tried to call SW from 13 March onwards but was never able to get 
through. But other than his word, which I dont doubt, there is no evidence to support this. 
And SW say they have no evidence of him calling them, and their phone lines were available 
until 25 March when they were instructed to close temporarily due to the pandemic. 
But even though Im willing to accept Mr N made the calls and was unable to get through, 
this doesnt actually change my opinion on the outcome of this complaint, because there was 
an alternative method of communication, namely the online chat function, which Mr N used 
on 2 April. And this chat function was open up until 25 March when the offices had to 
temporarily close, and from this point any request or contact would have been logged, even 
if it couldnt be actioned at that stage. So, Im satisfied that there was a reasonable option for 
Mr N to log his request to switch his investments before 2 April 2020, so I cant fairly hold 
SW responsible for any loss in fund value up to this point.
As Ive said, Mr N used the online chat function on 2 April 2020 to request the transfer. He 
says he didnt expect it to be actioned immediately and thought he would be called back to 
validate it before it was. But I dont agree with this. Ive seen the message that he sent to SW 
and it reads as follows:
.I want to switch today 100% of my funds from Scottish Widows Pension Portfolio 5 
Series 4 to Scottish Widows Cash Series 4 please.
This appears to me to be a clear instruction as to what he wants to happen, and that he 
wants it to happen straightaway. And there is no indication he needs to discuss it with SW 
first. And SW have said the personal information he included within the message, such as 
his name, date of birth, email address, phone number and postcode, was sufficient to pass 
their security process. So Im satisfied that SW were fair and reasonable in actioning the request without further contact, and theyve completed the switch as Mr N requested. And I 
think competing it within two days is also reasonable, under the circumstances. So Im 
satisfied SW cant be fairly held responsible for any loss in fund value between the point the 
switch was requested, and when it actually occurred.
On 6 April 2020 Mr N wanted to take some cash out of the pension, so he called SW but was 
unable to get through. But there was an answerphone message which said that if the caller 
was over 55 and wanted to access some of their pension, they should call a different 
number. As Mr N fitted these criteria he called the number and got through, but the person 
who answered was unable to help him as he was in the wrong department. 
SW have acknowledged this was frustrating, but they say the office Mr N should have gone 
through to had to be evacuated as an emergency happened that day, and his call had been 
transferred to an alternative office as a result, but unfortunately they werent able to help 
immediately. But they did log the complaint which meant he was called back and was able to 
give his instructions to the correct department two days later. So, although I agree the 
answerphone message played was inaccurate and would have been frustrating for Mr N, I 
dont think it would be fair to criticise SW for not taking it down in time due to the emergency 
situation, and Im satisfied they were reasonable in their response in getting back to him. 
And Ive seen he received the cash he requested from his pension within six working days, 
which Im satisfied is reasonable, in these circumstances.
So, although I appreciate and understand Mr Ns worries about the value of his funds, and 
his frustrations at not being able to speak to anyone, Im satisfied that he had an alternative 
method of communication to instruct SW to complete the switch, which he ultimately used. 
So I dont hold SW responsible for any loss in fund value as a result. And although SW 
acknowledge the service he was provided caused him inconvenience, given the 
extraordinary circumstances of the pandemic and how they managed his requests when 
they did receive them, Im satisfied it wasnt unreasonable that SW did not pay Mr N any 
compensation.
My final decision
I dont require Scottish Widows Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman