DRN-2588218
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way esure Insurance Limited (esure) handled his claim, and its 
decision not to reinstate his garden following storm damage.
What happened
Mr B had home insurance with esure, including cover for buildings, contents and accidental 
damage.
The power supply cables to Mr Bs house and a neighbouring house were damaged during a 
storm. The electricity network company dug through Mr Bs garden and into his house to re-
route the cables and restore power. He made a claim to esure for the repairs, which it initially 
declined. 
Mr B complained to esure. After looking into his complaint, it agreed that the damage was 
indirectly caused by the storm, so it agreed to pay for repairs to his house. 
Mr B told esure that the power supply company had caused damage to his front door. esure 
said he would need to raise it as a new claim, which Mr B was unhappy about. Again, after 
looking into his complaint, esure said it would refund the excess for the second claim, so Mr 
B was no worse off as a result of its decision to address it as a second claim.
esure told Mr B it wouldnt reinstate his garden because damage caused to it by storm 
wasnt covered under his policy. He remained unhappy with this decision because he had no 
control over the events which led to the damage. 
Overall, esure offered Mr B £225 which covered the excess for the second claim and 
included £100 which it said was a contribution towards the garden repair as a gesture of 
goodwill for the way it handled the claim. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. esure had covered the house repairs because the 
damage was unforeseeable, so he thought it should cover the garden damage for the same 
reason.
esure didnt agree. It said the house was covered for storm damage under the policy 
because it applied a but for test: but for the storm, the damage wouldnt have happened. 
Therefore the same reasoning should apply to the garden.
Then, I issued a provisional decision in January 2021 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
While I realise this will be disappointing for Mr B, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The circumstances around Mr Bs claim are not disputed. A storm damaged the power 
cables supplying his and a neighbouring house. The supply company re-routed the cables 
through Mr Bs garden and home, causing necessary damage in the process. The issues are 
that:
esure initially rejected Mr Bs claim for damage to his house;
it dealt with the damage to his front door as a second claim, and
esure refused to cover the damage to Mr Bs garden.
esure originally declined Mr Bs claim for the damage to his house under the exclusion of 
wear and tear. However, when Mr B complained, esure accepted that the damage wouldnt 
have happened but for the storm, so it agreed that the policy covered the damage to his 
house. While I think esure couldve dealt with Mr Bs claim in this way right from the start, Im 
satisfied it has resolved this matter. esure settled the claim and apologised to Mr B, so I think 
it put him back in the same position as before the loss of power in terms of the house 
damage.
Mr B doesnt think he shouldve had to make a separate claim for the damage to his front 
door. I can see why esure processed this as a separate claim. The power company didnt 
need to damage the front door to re-route the cables, so the damage was an indirect result 
of the storm repairs. Nevertheless, esure refunded the excess for this claim to Mr B, so he 
hasnt paid anything extra. As theres no loss to him because of esures decision, Im 
satisfied that it has put him back in the same position as before the damage. I think it was 
fair for esure to refund the excess, so I see no reason to require anything more in respect of 
this issue. 
Mr B doesnt think it was fair that esure declined his claim for reinstatement of his garden. I 
dont agree. Overall, esure accepted Mr Bs claim that the storm caused the damage to his 
property, albeit indirectly. Looking at the policy and what is covered, it says:
Your Cover
3.Storm/flood What is covered? 
We will pay for loss of or damage to Your Buildings or Contents as a result of Storm or 
Flood. 
Contents in your garden 
What is covered? 
We will pay for loss of or damage to Your Contents as a result of causes numbered 1, 2, 4, 5 
and 7 to 14 (and 15  Accidental Damage, if shown in Your Schedule) whilst they are 
outside and in the open but still within the boundaries of Your Home. This can also include 
the replacement of trees, shrubs, plants and lawns.
What is not covered? 
We will not pay for the following: 
loss or damage if Your House is Unfurnished or Unoccupied
loss or damage as a result of Storm/Flood or Subsidence/Heave 
any Exclusion applicable to the relevant cause.
I think the terms are clear  contents in the garden, including lawns, are covered except for 
where the damage is as a result of storm. So, if I follow the previous logic - that esure rightly 
accepted the claim for the house damage because it applied the but for test - I think its 
only fair to apply the same test here. But for the storm, the garden wouldnt have been damaged. So, the cause of the damage was the storm and Mr Bs garden lawn isnt covered 
under the policy. For this reason, I dont think esure needs to reinstate Mr Bs garden.
esure paid Mr B £225, consisting of £125 excess for the second claim and £100 contribution 
towards the garden repairs as a gesture of goodwill for its shortfalls when handling his claim. 
In the circumstances, I think thats fair and I wont be asking it to do any more.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
esure didnt have anything to add.
Mr B responded to say he didnt think it was acceptable that the power company isnt held 
responsible for the damage it caused when restoring the supply to his and his neighbours 
home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr B is unhappy with my provisional decision, I note that his frustration is with the 
power company for the damage it caused. Whether or not Mr B has a valid claim against the 
power company is not something I can decide. My remit is to look at what esure did and, for 
the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that it was fair for esure to decline 
Mr Bs claim for the damage the power company caused to his garden. 
I can understand Mr Bs frustration and he may wish to raise his concerns directly with the 
distribution network operator which has its own complaints process and ombudsman 
scheme.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman