DRN-3043776
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) hasnt refunded the money he lost after 
falling victim to an investment scam.
 
What happened
In July 2020, Mr K was browsing an online investment networking site. He saw an 
investment opportunity with a company who Ill refer to as P. P were promoting returns which 
appealed to Mr K, so he got in touch and gave them his contact details. Shortly afterwards, 
Mr K received an email from P explaining who they were and how they would invest his 
funds. They also confirmed they were the trading name of another company, who Ill refer to 
as F. Several phone calls then took place between Mr K and someone from P, during which 
they discussed in more detail how P would invest Mr Ks funds.
In the meantime, Mr K says he carried out some checks on P and F. This included checks 
on F via the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register. 
Following these checks, Mr K agreed to use Ps services and signed an online contract. 
Mr K sent £5,000 to P from his Monzo account and shortly afterwards began to receive 
updates on how his investment was going. Just over a month later in August 2020, Mr K 
attempted to send a further £5,000 to the same account for further investment. However, this 
payment was returned. P told Mr K that they were having some technical issues and 
provided him with different bank accounts details to send the payment to  which Mr K 
agreed to do. For a brief time after this, Mr K said he was still able to get updates on his 
investments through his online account. But eventually he was unable to get in touch with P 
and realised hed been scammed. So, Mr K contacted Monzo and raised a fraud claim.
Monzo arent a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model
(CRM Code) but have agreed to adhere to the provisions of the CRM Code. The CRM Code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo says 
one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Monzo reviewed Mr Ks scam claim under the CRM Code. They also contacted the banks 
which received the payments  but were told no funds remained. Monzo told Mr K that they 
couldnt refund him, saying one of the exceptions applies under the CRM Code. They felt   
Mr K hadnt carried out enough due diligence in relation to the investments, as well as about 
P and F, before proceeding with both payments and therefore didnt have a reasonable basis 
for believing this was a legitimate investment.
Unhappy with their response Mr K brought his complaint to our service.
What Mr K has said
Mr K told our investigator he had used the same online investment networking site a year 
earlier and was satisfied with the investment he ended up making with another company 
advertised on their site. As a result, he was confident this site advertised genuine investment 
opportunities. In addition to this, they were advertising a better rate of return than was 
available on the high street.
He decided to choose P on the basis they were offering consistent returns on an investment. 
He also told our investigator that whilst he cant fully remember, he was told the returns 
could range anywhere between 10% to 100%. 
P provided him with a breakdown of how the investment would work. This included different 
accounts  bronze, silver, gold and platinum. As you went up the scale of accounts (bronze 
being the lowest), P told Mr K that the potential rate of returns would increase. But that came 
with risk to his capital, and the higher the return the greater the percentage of capital that 
would be at risk. For example, for the bronze account there was a risk of 10%, whereas as 
the highest account had a risk to his capital of 25%. Also, there was a minimum investment 
amount to access each of the accounts, and the higher the return, the higher he had to 
invest in order to be eligible. 
Mr K was told that because of the amount he initially wanted to invest (£5,000), he would 
only be eligible for the bronze account. Mr K has said he was happy with this and selected 
this option, which meant Mr Ks rate of returns could be up to 25% per year. Mr K explained 
that he didnt think this was completely unreasonable, because his previous (and genuine) 
investment with another company a year earlier offered a rate of 24%.    
Mr K also explained that the application process with P matched with what hed done on the 
genuine investment a year earlier. They both went through all the details of the investment, 
how it was managed and discussed the returns. On both occasions, Mr K says he went 
through the same process of signing documents electronically as well.
When dealing with P, Mr K said they were extremely professional and helpful and were able 
to answer any questions he had. And at no stage did they pressurise him to make payments. 
In addition to this, he carried out several checks into P and F. This included checks on the 
FCA register as well as with Companies House. He also checked the name of the person he 
spoke to from P on LinkedIn and again this didnt raise any concerns.  And the 
documentation he received and signed also appeared to be genuine. For example, the 
address used, and the name of the CEO associated with F on the contract matched up with 
the research hed carried out. 
After he made the first £5,000 payment, Mr K was able to see how the various trades were 
doing via an online platform  which reassured him that everything was going ok before 
deciding to invest again.
What Monzo said
Monzo told our investigator they still felt Mr K failed to carry out enough due diligence, which 
is why they havent refunded him on this occasion. 
One of their main concerns was the rate of return that was being promised to Mr K. The 
documents hes provided to them claim that P had a track record of providing return rates of 
anything between 76% to 385% per year. Monzo believe that these figures are extremely 
unrealistic, and this shouldve caused concern to Mr K. They also feel the general premise of 
what P were offering (a platform that runs off of algorithms which can make extremely large profits) was too good to be true  otherwise everyone would be doing this. Monzo also 
commented that just before he made the second investment, Mr K appeared to be under the 
impression that his original investment saw a 10% return in just over a month. Monzo felt this 
was also extremely unrealistic and indicated this wasnt a legitimate investment.
Finally, they felt the agreement appeared to be hastily thrown together and that the checks 
Mr K completed were very basic and the information he relied on could be easily obtained by 
a scammer. 
What our investigator said
Our investigator was persuaded Mr K had a reasonable basis for believing the payments he 
made were genuine, and that an exception under the CRM Code didnt apply in this case. 
They highlighted several points to support their view. This included:
Mr K found this company through a legitimate investment network website. The 
company acted professionally with Mr K throughout and the process they used gave 
the impression they were a genuine company.
Mr K undertook several checks which helped to convince him that he was dealing 
with a genuine company. This included checking reviews, checking the FCA register 
and Companies House.
For these reasons, our investigator concluded Monzo had unfairly declined Mr Ks scam 
claim. As a result, our investigator recommended Monzo should refund both of the payments 
Mr K made  totalling £10,000  as well as applying 8% simple interest to this amount, 
calculated from the date Monzo declined to refund Mr K to the date of settlement.
Mr K accepted our investigators view, but Monzo disagreed. 
They still believed Mr K didnt have a reasonable basis of belief for the same reasons 
already set out. But in addition to this, they also raised some separate concerns, namely 
whether this was a scam or not.  This was because theyd found further information about F 
on Companies House which led Monzo to believe this mightve been a situation where a 
regulated broker of F (who subsequently lost their authorisation) mayve just been trading 
without authorisation and offering products which werent suitable for retail investors such as 
Mr K. 
As a result, Monzo werent convinced this was a situation where there was an intent from P 
to deprive Mr K of his money.
Our investigator responded to Monzos concerns. Firstly, they were persuaded this was a 
scam. This was because whilst P claimed to be affiliated to F, our investigator couldnt see 
any evidence they were genuinely linked. Therefore, our investigator felt it was a case that P 
had used Fs name to make them seem more legitimate rather than a case of an 
unauthorised broker. 
They also acknowledged Monzos argument regarding the rate of return on this investment. 
They didnt think Mr K was a particularly experienced investigator and whilst they accepted 
the rate of return was high, they also didnt think this alone was enough to say Mr K didnt 
have a reasonable basis for belief. Especially when considering all the other steps Mr K took 
to reassure himself that he was dealing with a genuine investment company. 
As Monzo still disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Mr K 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances, Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr K 
lost.
The money was taken from Mr Ks current account. It is not clear how Mr K would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done. So, Monzo 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year 
from the date Monzo shouldve refunded under the CRM Code to the date of 
payment.
I have carefully considered Monzos representations about whether Mr K had a reasonable 
basis for believing the two transactions were genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach 
a different answer than the investigator did. Im not satisfied Monzo has shown that Mr K 
lacked a reasonable basis for belief.
A bank might decline a refund if it can be demonstrated that the customer made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; 
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Firstly, Ive thought about how Mr K came to discover this investment and the steps he took 
to verify the company itself. Having done so, Im persuaded that it was reasonable for him to 
have believed he was dealing with a genuine investment company. I say this because the 
investment networking site that Mr K used to research investments, was the same as the 
one hed used a year earlier for a genuine investment. And as he did last time around, Mr K 
initiated contact with the company offering the investment (via the genuine networking site) 
rather than being contacted unexpectedly or cold called. And as Mr K had a positive 
experience with this website previously, I think this added to the apparent legitimacy of the 
investment opportunity and the firm offering it.
After agreeing to invest, Mr K was required to provide proof of person documents and then 
received a contract which he signed electronically. Again, this all followed the same process 
as the genuine investment a year earlier. In addition to this, Mr K carried out checks both 
with the FCA and Companies House based on the information provided within the contract 
and beforehand. Ive looked at the contract and Im satisfied it comes across as professional 
and contains various information that only supports Mr Ks belief that hes dealing with a 
genuine company. This includes things such as the use of the correct company number and 
address respectively. It also contains the details of an individual who has a genuine 
association with F. Given Im persuaded it was reasonable for Mr K to have assumed he was dealing with a 
genuine company, Ive then thought about whether Mr K had a reasonable basis for 
believing the investment and associated returns were genuine. 
I appreciate Monzo has raised concerns that the document Mr K initially received from P 
promised rates of return that it feels are too good to be true. However, Im satisfied that 
these werent the rates that Mr K was promised when he discussed the investment on the 
phone calls he had with P. As highlighted earlier, Mr K says the investment was a tiered 
system in which the rate of return would vary depending on how much money he wanted to 
invest, as well as his appetite for risk. Based on these factors, Mr K has said he was told he 
would potentially see an actual return of around 25% per year. 
While this figure does seem high, Mr K has provided evidence in relation to the genuine 
investment he made through the same networking site the previous year. These documents 
show Mr K was expecting to receive a rate of return of 24% - albeit over two years rather 
than one. I do accept that there are differences in the type of investments Mr K was getting 
involved in, but given his initial experience and the rate offered on the genuine investment a 
year earlier, I think this adds some legitimacy to the rate offered by P to some degree. 
Especially taken in conjunction with the investment being offered on a website he believed 
was genuine and from a company that appeared (based on his checks and the paperwork 
etc) to also be genuine.
Once Mr K made his first payment, he was provided with an online account which allowed 
him to track how his investment was doing. Based on the screenshots Ive seen this account 
looked professional and suggested the investment was going well. As a result, Im satisfied 
Mr Ks basis for belief was still intact when he made his second payment a month or so later. 
Not only because he was able to check in on his investment, but also because he remained 
in contact with P as well. I understand that the second payment was made to a different 
account and the recipient name appeared to be different. But given the explanation about 
there being a technical issue with payments to the original account, coupled with the fact 
there was nothing at that stage to suggest there was anything wrong with the investment, I 
dont think it was unreasonable that Mr K proceeded with the payment.  
The CRM Code doesnt say that Mr K had to complete checks, its about whether he had a 
reasonable basis for believing the investment was legitimate. And, if there are warning signs 
or concerns, then what steps he took to satisfy himself that it was legitimate.
In this case, I think the checks that Mr K did were proportionate and that he made the 
investment based on having a reasonable basis for believing it was legitimate. Therefore, 
Monzo should refund Mr K under the CRM Code for both payments. 
Putting things right
To put things right Monzo Bank Ltd should refund Mr K £10,000 plus interest at 8% simple 
per year  calculated from the date Monzo originally declined the claim to the date of 
payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman