DRN-2726609
The complaint
Miss M had a motor insurance policy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited. She 
complains that it provided poor service to her and increased her premium unfairly. 
 
What happened
Miss Ms car was damaged by a truck owned by firm Y and the driver left the scene without 
providing any details. Miss M got an estimate for repairs, but she didnt want to make a claim 
on her policy. She wanted the driver who caused the accident to be found. She asked 
Admiral to review CCTV footage and to contact firm Y to arrange to inspect its truck. 
Miss M says Admiral delayed unduly in making these enquiries and that its claims handlers 
didnt seem to know what was happening. She also told Admiral that an advisor who had 
promised to send her a text message didnt do so - and that her complaint wasnt registered 
initially. She said her premium rose at renewal and her no claims discount (NCD) was lost. 
She said the stress from the claim had affected her badly, especially as she was pregnant. 
Admiral upheld most of Miss Ms complaints and offered her £100 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. But it said her NCD hadnt been affected. And it said the renewal quote 
she got was affected by her being involved in an accident, despite the fact that she hadnt 
made a claim on the policy. Miss M wasnt satisfied with Admirals response.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ms complaint. He thought it was reasonable for 
Admiral to raise Miss Ms premium at renewal. He said there was no evidence of her 
protected NCD having been affected. But he thought Admiral should pay Miss M a further 
£200 compensation (£300 in total) for the other issues shed raised. In particular, he thought 
Admiral should have chased for the CCTV footage earlier than it did, as it may have helped it  
to identify the truck and the driver.
    
Admiral said it had viewed the CCTV coverage and that it didnt show the accident or the 
trucks registration plate, so it didnt think the delay had caused a problem. It said it was 
willing to raise the compensation to £200 in total due to the other issues. Miss M wasnt 
happy with the new offer. She said as Admiral had waited too long to view the CCTV 
footage, in the meantime the truck that hit her car could have been repaired. 
The investigator advised Admiral that his original view would stand, as Admiral should have 
obtained the footage sooner. He thought if it had done so, it could have had firm Ys vehicles 
inspected and may have found the one that hit Miss Ms car. As there was no response from 
Admiral, the complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Admiral told us recently that it didnt receive the investigators final email. It has accepted 
that there was a delay in it viewing the CCTV coverage, but as it wasnt helpful, Im not sure 
viewing it earlier would have made any difference. Miss M told the investigator that shed 
viewed the footage early on. She told him shed informed Admiral at that point that it only 
showed a truck that was in firm Ys fleet, which couldnt be identified. In my opinion, that 
means Admiral would always have had to rely on the co-operation of firm Y in order to make 
any progress in identifying the truck. And it would then have had to show that the truck 
caused the accident. 
Admirals file shows that it had been in contact with firm Y by 16 April 2019. It gave firm Y all 
the details of the accident and the location. In its final response letter, which was sent to 
Miss M in June 2019, Admiral said that firm Y wasnt co-operating. It still hadnt provided 
details of which of its vehicles were in the area at the time of the accident. It looks as though 
that information was never provided. 
I dont think its all that surprising that firm Y didnt co-operate. Usually if a third party wont 
respond to enquiries, theres the option of starting legal proceedings. But in this case, there  
was no evidence of the collision, and the truck that allegedly caused it couldnt be identified. 
So without firm Ys assistance, I dont think Admiral was in a position to take any further 
action. I cant see how it would have made a difference if Admiral had viewed the footage 
earlier. It didnt have the right to inspect firm Ys vehicles without firm Ys consent. So it 
would still have had to rely on firm Ys help  and its clear that wasnt forthcoming.  
 
I think Admiral has dealt with the other issues Miss M complained about reasonably. It has 
provided underwriting evidence that shows the increase in her premium was correct. And 
Miss Ms protected NCD was unaffected by the claim.  Admiral has accepted that an advisor 
gave Miss M the wrong advice, that he failed to send her a text message as promised and 
that her complaint was registered late. It acknowledged that Miss M may have been caused 
extra stress as a result of being pregnant at the time. 
I can see why Miss M is upset, as in her view firm Y escaped liability for the claim. I 
sympathise with the position she found herself in, but I have to consider whether Admiral 
acted unreasonably. I think the £200 compensation it has offered Miss M is sufficient to deal 
with the distress and inconvenience caused by the service issues set out above. So Im only 
able to uphold her complaint in part.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional view. Admiral didnt respond and Miss M 
said she had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party commented on my provisional view, I see no reason to change it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Miss M a further £100 (£200 in total) compensation. Under the Financial 
Ombudsman Services rules, I must ask Miss M to accept or reject it before 27 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman