DRN-4114339
The complaint
Mr B complained about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a type of personal pension arrangement, in 2018. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Chilvester Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to Chilvester.
What happened
Mr B was a deferred member of the OPS which was operated by his previous employer. 
Hed accrued around 13 years worth of benefits. The information gathered about Mr B at the 
time of the advice was broadly as follows:
Mr B was 52 years old, married and with no financial dependents. He and Mrs B 
were in good health.
They lived in a home valued at approximately £270,000, which had no outstanding 
mortgage. Mr B earned £30,500 per year (which he said was around £1,800 per 
month net). Mrs B was described at the time as a home keeper. They had around 
£5,000 in emergency fund savings.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Bs DB pension (Pension C) was 
approximately £533,629 and the normal retirement age (NRA) of Pension C was 65. 
This figure comprised of an original DB element of around £476,379 and around 
£57,250 in additional voluntary contributions (AVCs). There were slight variations in 
the valuations in different documents which in my experience is normal. 
Pension C could only be transferred if moving both the original DB element and the 
AVCs. They couldnt be split.
Mr and Mrs B each had a further deferred pension DB scheme with via similar 
previous employers (Pension W) although these two pensions were each 
comparatively modest affairs. These two each amounted to paid pensions from the 
ages of 63 for Mr B, and 61 for Mrs B. They were estimated to pay £2,589 and 
£2,790 per year, respectively, 
Mr B also had a defined contribution (DC) pension with his then current employer 
which had around £11,200 in the funds. He and his employer were making 
contributions to this at the time. Mr B had a further small DC pension fund (£8,300 in 
funds) and Mrs B had a small Section 32 scheme, a type of guaranteed pension. 
None of these other pensions are the subject of this complaint  only Pension C is 
being complained about.
Mr B told Chilvester that he wanted to retire at the age of 56 and be able to draw a 
monthly pension income of £2,000.
Chilvester set out its advice in a recommendation report in January 2018. It said the only 
way he could achieve retirement so early and have his desired level of income was to 
transfer away from Pension C. It therefore recommended he should transfer out and invest 
the funds in a type of personal pension arrangement. Chilvester said this would allow Mr B to 
achieve his objectives because a personal plan would allow for more flexibility.
Mr B accepted this advice and so transferred from his DB scheme to a personal pension 
arrangement. In 2022 Mr B complained to Chilvester about its advice, saying he shouldnt 
have been advised to transfer out of his DB scheme. In response, Chilvester said it hadnt 
done anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr B had at the time. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. Chilvester didnt agree and also said that, in any case, the 
transfer of Mr Bs pension hasnt caused any loss. It said his transferred funds have actually 
gone up in value. 
I issued a provisional decision (PD) about this complaint in April 2023 explaining that I wasnt 
minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I then gave the parties the opportunity to send me any 
further comments, information or evidence before issuing a final decision. 
Ive now had replies from both parties, so Im now issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Chilvester's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Chilvester should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the DB 
scheme was in Mr Bs best interests. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B, but I still think the 
advice to transfer was in his best interests and in accordance with his fixed objectives which 
Mr B didnt want to change. I also still think that, in any event, Mr B would have probably 
transferred his pension had the advice been different, due to his overriding desire to retire 
early.
I am therefore not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
The financial viability of the transfer 
As required by the regulator, to demonstrate the financial comparisons between his current 
scheme (Pension C) and transferring out to a personal pension arrangement, Chilvester 
referred in its transfer analysis to critical yield rates.  
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same benefits 
as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show how 
likely it is that a personal pension arrangement could achieve the necessary investment 
growth for a transfer-out to become financially viable. 
Chilvester said the critical yield required to match Mr Bs DB scheme benefits within Pension 
C at the NRA of 65, was 6.3% (if taking no lump sum) and 5.2% (with a lump sum). The 
critical yields for a retirement at the age of 56 were 5.7% and 1.6% respectively.
Our investigator thought that whether Mr B was intending to take a lump-sum upon 
retirement was still somewhat uncertain. This is important because it enables us to think 
about what critical yield rates we ought to use when considering the level of growth Mr Bs 
transferred pension would need to achieve, to make transferring worthwhile. 
However, I dont agree with the view the investigator took in this respect, which was to 
assume Mr B wouldnt take a tax-free lump sum when he retired. Because the investigator 
took this view, they assumed Mr Bs transferred funds would need to match a critical yield 
growth rate of around 5.7%, as shown above, to make transferring worthwhile from a purely 
financial comparison perspective. 
However, there were several references to taking tax-free cash in the recommendation 
report and elsewhere in the documents Ive seen from the time of the advice. I also think that 
in looking at Mr Bs overall financial profile, its more likely hed have wanted to access this 
cash for a number of reasons, not least to provide a tax efficient cash amount upon which to 
start and maintain a reasonable retirement. I think this would have been particularly likely as 
his retirement aspirations were to stop working as early as possible and at a comparatively 
young age. Its also generally the case that taking tax-free cash on retirement is the most 
tax-efficient way to access a pension, so I think Mr B wouldve likely taken that route.
The critical yields for a retirement at 65 were somewhat irrelevant in his case, given Mr B 
insisted that he wanted to retire at age 56, although again Chilvester was probably right to 
include these for comparison purposes. But this means that the correct critical yield here 
was the lower one  the one assuming Mr B fully intended to retire at around the age of 56 
and would also take a tax-free lump sum. The critical yield for this was only 1.6% and Ive 
therefore thought whether exceeding this level of growth year in year until retirement, could 
have been achievable.The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. At the time, Chilvester assessed Mr Bs attitude 
to risk (ATR) as low-medium.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 2.8% (for a retirement at age 56). This is above the critical yield figure Ive set out above 
and so it implies that exceeding the critical yield was reasonably achievable. Ive also kept in 
mind that the regulator's upper projection rate was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, 
and the lower projection rate was 2%. Even the lower growth assumption was above the 
critical yield rate. So again, this implies that exceeding 1.6% was a reasonable and 
achievable goal, particularly given Mr Bs low-medium attitude to risk.
Although there were indeed some uncertainties about the future growth of Mr Bs pension 
funds if he transferred away from Pension C, I think that over-achieving a critical yield of 
1.6% was a reasonable expectation. In his case, the intended retirement was only 3 years 
away so, unlike our investigator, I dont think it could be said that in the longer-term Mr B 
would likely receive lower overall pension benefits if he transferred away from his DB 
scheme. I think there was a reasonable chance of matching and exceeding the overall 
financial benefits by transferring away, although as I explain further on, hed be losing some 
wider benefits that are harder to quantify.
But of course, this straightforward financial comparison isnt the full story here. This is 
because Chilvesters recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal pension 
wasnt based on the growth comparisons with his current scheme alone. Rather, Chilvester 
focussed on Mr Bs desire to try and retire early, if possible at around the age of 56. And 
Chilvester said this would only be possible if he transferred out of Pension C to allow him to 
use his Pension Cs value much more flexibly. 
Ive considered these issues below. 
Flexibility and income needs
Ive used a combination of what was in Chilvesters recommendation report and the various 
client information forms it completed about Mr B, to help determine what Chilvester said 
were the main objectives for transferring out of the DB scheme. Chilvester said the reasons 
for its recommendation to transfer away from Pension C were as follows: 
Your personal circumstances would benefit from the flexibility provided by the 
pension freedom legislation at retirement.
The pension scheme trustees have offered a competitive Cash Equivalent Transfer 
Value. 
Although you could defer transferring until a later date when the transfer value could 
increase, the cashflow forecasts we completed show that your goals are achievable 
based on the current value. Transferring now minimises the risk of not being able to 
achieve your plan to retire at 56, if the value reduced in the future.So, it seems the supporting reasons that Chilvester recommended the transfer out to a 
personal pension arrangement was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr B. And the 
crux of the matter is that Chilvester pointed out during its advice that if he was really 
intending to retire early, then between the ages of 56  67 (when Mr B would eventually 
receive the state pension) he would have an income shortfall if he remained in the DB 
scheme and retired at 56. This is because whilst retiring at 56 under Pension C was allowed 
under the scheme rules, Mr Bs pension would be substantially lower than if hed waited until 
the schemes NRA of 65.
The reasons for this are that by retiring so young, Mr B would likely be drawing from his 
pension earlier and for much longer. For example, the analysis produced during the advice 
in 2018, showed retiring from Pension C at 56 would give Mr B an annual pension of £9,837 
without a tax-free lump-sum. If he chose to take a lump-sum, as I believe the evidence 
suggests he would have, the pension would have been £7,604. These amounts were 
considerably short of Mr Bs needs for a £2,000 per month net income. Therefore, Chilvester 
told Mr B that remaining in the DB scheme wasnt consistent with him retiring so young.
I think that Chilvester was right in its assessment of Mr Bs situation. What it said was 
basically that by transferring away, Mr B would be able to pay himself more in the beginning 
of his retirement years until his other pensions (Pension W and the state pension) kicked in 
at the ages of 63 and 67 respectively. So, by transferring Pension C away and into a 
personal pension arrangement, he was effectively compressing the CETV into paying more 
during these years.
Given the nature of the recommendation and the benefits Mr B would be giving up, Id have 
expected Chilvester to look at, and explain to Mr B, a variety of other options before taking 
such action. Overall, I think it did this. 
Im satisfied it explained these options to Mr B and it is evident he still decided he wanted to 
retire at 56. Ive noted that Chilvester considered and discussed with Mr B whether 
transferring / using his other pensions first might be more appropriate instead of transferring 
away from the larger Pension C. In this context, it considered transferring his smaller DB 
scheme (Pension W), rather than Pension C. It also considered incorporating his (much 
smaller) DC schemes into the financial equation. But ultimately, Chilvester explained, 
accurately in my view, that these other pensions would all generate insufficient income to 
meet his £2,000 monthly objective from the age of 56. And it demonstrated, through the 
cashflow planning that if Mr B transferred Pension C and retired at age 56, his funds would 
last well beyond his anticipated life expectancy, with a lump sum remaining to pass on.
Ive considered to what extent Chilvester ought to have advised Mr B to work on a little 
longer, rather than completely retiring so early. There is no doubt in my mind that if hed 
done that, then hed have been able to remain in his Pension C scheme and still retire at the 
comparatively young age of around 60. 
However, in my view the dialog the parties seem to have had about this clearly points to 
these other options having been thoroughly discussed. And to avoid doubt, it was also set 
out, again clearly in my view, in the recommendation report Mr B was given. The report said,
An alternative option could be to defer retirement until 60 in which case my forecast shows 
should be achievable by remaining within the [Pension C] scheme and taking early 
retirement at that time. You do not, however, wish to consider deferring your retirement 
plans. Its important to you to retire as soon as possible and you do not want to work any 
longer than you have to if there is a way of generating the necessary level of income from 
your current provision.In my view, all this contains a degree of detail that suggests Mr B was told he could wait a 
little longer to retire and yet still retire quite young  5 years earlier than the schemes NRA. 
Doing this would negate the need to transfer away at all. Mr B implies it was Chilvester, 
rather than him, that encouraged the concept of early retirement. But whilst I accept this may 
be Mr Bs honest recollection now, the evidence points very strongly the other way. I think if 
such a description of events had appeared in the recommendation report about something 
that simply hadnt happened  or was completely fabricated  then Mr B would have raised 
the issue as being incorrect at the time. This was a valuable pension which Mr B had gone 
out of his way to seek professional advice about, so I think I can reasonably assume he read 
the recommendation report closely.
So, to me, the advice to transfer away seems reasonable for all these reasons. What I mean 
by this is that other options were discussed in considerable detail and the evidence suggests 
Mr B fully understood what these options were; also their strengths and weaknesses. Ive 
also seen that even after the recommendation report, an ongoing dialog between the parties 
continued, with Mr B being told that if he wanted to retire at such a young age then the only 
way this could be achieved was by transferring. Ive noted the dialog also comprised of 
thoughts  from both sides  as to what might happen to the CETV if transferring was 
delayed nearer to the actual retirement age. I also think the adviser correctly said that this 
simply couldnt be speculated upon as the CETV could go either up or down, but what he 
knew at that time would afford Mr B some certainty about early retirement, if that is what he 
really wanted.
Could Chilvester done anything different?
Ive kept in mind how important it is here to remember that it was Chilvester which was the 
regulated financial adviser. Mr B went to the business seeking  and indeed paying for  
financial advice. In this context then, Chilvesters job here wasnt to just simply transact what 
Mr B thought he wanted. Its role was to really understand his position and recommend what 
was in his overall best interests. But after giving this matter a great deal of careful thought, 
I think this is what was done here. I think Chilvester listened carefully to what Mr B wanted 
and it pushed back as necessary by informing him of other ways of using his retirement 
funds. I think it acted, overall, in Mr Bs best interests. 
For instance, I note it moderated his ATR down following him filling out various forms about 
what levels of investment risk or capacity for loss he would tolerate. Chilvester reduced his 
ATR from high-medium to low-medium and it recorded why this was in his best interests. 
And I think it also had a robust discussion with him about retaining his DB benefits and 
deferring his retirement rather than transferring out.
Mr B says that transferring has caused him a great deal of anxiety. Id like to place on record 
that I certainly dont doubt that this transfer did ultimately cause him to reflect negatively on 
what happened, but the question is whether the warnings, if there were any, were clear 
enough and focussed on the right things, to enable Mr B to make an informed decision. So, 
Ive thought about the main areas of risk and whether Chilvester brought these to the 
attention of Mr B in the right way.
Mr Bs age
Mr B was still only 52 years old. There was no possibility of him accessing these transferred 
funds yet and as Chilvesters calculations all assumed a retirement at around the age of 56, 
there was still around 3 years until this point arrived.
The question is, therefore, was a recommendation to transfer irreversibly away from his 
Pension C scheme there and then in Mr Bs best interests? On balance I think it was.I say this because from what I can see from documents and email discussions between the 
parties at around the time of the advice, I think its likely Mr B wanted some certainty if at all 
possible so he could plan for his retirement. Ive seen repeated references to his desire to 
retire at the age of 56  and we know now that he actually did retire aged 55 years and 9 
months. So, it seems to me that at the point of the advice, this was more than a pipe dream, 
it was a genuine plan.
Our investigator pointed out that irreversibly transferring away from the DB scheme wasnt 
something he yet needed to do. However, whilst thats right, Ive taken the view that this 
transfer wasnt an unduly long period of time before Mr Bs planned retirement. Everything 
Ive seen indicates that Mr B wanted to plan ahead. He himself had sought out the advice 
and the evidence is clear that he and Mrs B wanted to have their options ready so they could 
plan for a retirement which was substantially ahead of the NRA. In my view, doing this in 
advance of when he could access the funds and/or retire wasnt unreasonable, as these 
events were only around 2 to 3 years away respectively.
The high CETV
Chilvester implies that CETV values were at an all-time high. I do understand the point being 
made, although from a position of hindsight this is easy for Chilvester to say. However, 
specific discussions from the time do appear to have centred on the value of the CETV and 
Mr B himself says he was surprised when the figure was sent through to him and it was so 
high  much higher than hed expected. In all reality, I dont think Chilvester could accurately 
predict the CETV could only reduce from the point the advice i.e. that it was as high as it 
ever would be. 
However, I think its fair to acknowledge that by historical standards viewed as of that time, 
the CETV of £476,379 (the DB element) was probably high and I think all Chilvester was 
doing was pointing out that if Mr B wanted to make an early decision now about retiring, the 
figures worked out for him. It was something he could set in motion by transferring now. On 
the other hand, as of 2018, we were in a prolonged period of low interest rates and bond 
yields, and I think the central projections around then were for that environment to continue 
for the foreseeable future. Basing an irrevocable transfer on this alone would therefore not 
be appropriate as the CETV probably wasnt expected to dramatically fall just yet.
Nevertheless, I dont think Chilvester wrongly used the CETV to unduly influence Mr B  I 
think it was merely acting in his best interests. Ive seen emails where the CETV was 
discussed. And I take the view here that there is reliable evidence of Mr B understanding this 
issue and the adviser refusing to be drawn on something he simply couldnt predict. 
Ultimately the adviser offered what I considered to a be a reasonable perspective. He said if 
Mr B wanted certainty, then transferring at that point would give him it. His analysis was 
based on the current CETV and this confirmed a retirement at the age of 56 would be 
possible based on the recommendation Chilvetser had put forward.
All this means that I think the options were portrayed to Mr B broadly in the right way.
The death benefits and guarantees found in Pension C 
By leaving Pension C, Mr B was giving up other valuable benefits as a deferred member not 
yet drawing from the DB pension scheme. And when he eventually started to draw his 
pension, other guarantees and benefits existed. These included annual indexation and 
spousal death benefits. 
I can accept that Chilvester could have done more to explain these issues. However, the 
documentation is reflective of a substantive discussion about the loss of benefits and guarantees generally. Mr B was married and so I think the spousal death benefits in 
particular would have been relevant in his case.  Leaving Pension C would mean losing 
these benefits, but I think these were pointed out and that Mr B, who had a reasonable 
understanding of pensions, knew this. 
Overall, I think the documentation Ive been shown in this case reflects the importance of 
these guarantees and benefits being discussed and importantly, forming a significant part of 
Mr Bs decision to leave the DB scheme. I do accept the spouses pension provided by 
Pension C would have been useful to Mrs B if Mr B predeceased her, not least because her 
pension provision was lower than her husbands. However, Mr B was told the sustainability 
of the personal pension plan moving forward was based on market performance, rather than 
a guaranteed outcome. 
In short, everything Ive seen shows Mr B was fully aware of the benefits hed be giving up if 
he wanted to go ahead and transfer to a personal plan.
Summary
In this final decision, I have explained why I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
I have considered his responses to my provisional decision but some of these relate to 
whether or not there was ever a loss incurred, which Chilvester still disputes. However, Im 
afraid this is somewhat overtaken by events as Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint anyway  
so the loss calculations are irrelevant. Mr B also says he doesnt agree with my decision to 
not uphold his complaint because he didnt need to use his DB scheme in order to retire 
early.  
Id like to assure Mr B that Ive considered all his responses very carefully. But they dont 
add anything new and Ive already explained about his desire to retire early and the other 
means he had available at the time. In essence  and with great respect  hes sent in 
nothing new.
As I explained previously in my PD, the documentation shows that Mr B approached 
Chilvester for advice after becoming aware of what he considered to be a remarkably high 
CETV. The advice process was somewhat elongated, taking several months from the 
beginning of the relationship until when Pension C was eventually transferred. In my view, 
this timeframe was beneficial as it allowed for communication between Mr B and the adviser. 
I think its significant, as the evidence shows, that there was an ongoing dialog between the 
parties about what was in Mr Bs best interests and what he eventually wanted to do. So, in 
my view, this time allowed Mr B to consider all his options with care and to frequently ask the 
adviser about the pros and cons of various different scenarios.
I began by looking at the transfer from a purely financial comparison perspective. For this, 
the critical yield was relatively low. At just 1.6%, I think exceeding this was credible, although 
outgrowing the existing pension benefits wasnt really an objective of either party in this 
case. What it meant, however, is that from a financial perspective, Mr B probably wasnt 
going to come away with any lower financial benefits as a result of the transfer. And I think 
thats a significant consideration here, given Mr B didnt have a high capacity for loss.
The whole point of transferring was to really enable Mr B to retire at the relatively young age 
of 56; this was 9 years younger than his NRA and I think Chilvester accurately told Mr B that 
this could only be achieved if he transferred away from Pension C to a more flexible 
personal pension plan. This allowed for a sustainable income of £2,000 per month which is 
what Mr B told Chilvester thats what he wanted. It bridged the income gap between retiring 
so young  until his other pensions kicked in at various different ages, in his 60s. Mr B says this whole idea was put forward by Chilvester, rather than by himself. But Im 
afraid I dont think the evidence supports this. There are repeated references in the 
documentation to early retirement at that specific age being of the utmost priority for Mr B. 
This included detailed explanations in the recommendation report, a document which I think 
Mr B would have wanted to read very carefully. It was specifically recorded that various 
alternative options had been put forward to Mr B which enabled him not to transfer. But he 
was adamant that retiring early was non-negotiable. Post-recommendation there were also 
continued discussions about the early retirement issue and, of course, we know now that 
Mr B did indeed retire at around that age. 
Mr B was advised to leave his existing DB scheme when he could have waited a little longer 
before transferring away. There were risks in doing this. However, comprehensive 
explanations were recorded for leaving the DB scheme somewhat early, which essentially 
revolved around giving Mr B a degree of financial certainty around 3 years ahead of his 
actual point of retirement. I dont think having that period of time was unreasonable in a 
retirement context. In fact, the evidence Ive seen points to Mr B first considering whether 
certainty was something he wanted  and then deciding that it was.
I accept Chilvester could have done some things differently. It could have been more forceful 
around some of the guarantees and benefits Pension C contained and could have more 
strongly pointed out why giving them up might not be a good idea, if looked at through a 
certain lens. One could also make out the case for the most suitable recommendation being 
to tell Mr B he should give up the idea of retiring until he was aged 60, mainly because he 
couldnt really afford to do so and still have a large pension for life.
However, Ive taken the view that the pension freedoms legislation was enacted to provide 
consumers with more choice. Chilvester specifically said Mr B could wait until he was 60 
before retiring and in that case he could remain in his DB scheme. But Mr B told the adviser 
he didnt want to do that. I therefore believe Mr B understood the trade-offs and his strong 
desire for a retirement at 56 eventually outweighed these issues for him.
Put simply, everything Ive seen in this case points to Mr Bs desire for an early retirement 
being so strong, and indeed fixed, that he accepted some losses and some risks. I believe 
he understood these. He has, in any event, gone ahead with an early retirement as planned 
and I think this is always what he would have done, whatever the advice.
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
I do not direct Chilvester Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman