DRN-3390643
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Unum Ltd declined his claim on his income protection policy. 
What happened
Mr A is a dentist. He became unwell and signed off work from 27 May 2019 due to anxiety 
and depression. So he made a claim on his income protection policy which would pay a 
benefit after a deferred (waiting) period of 26 weeks if he was unable to work due to illness 
or injury. 
Unum declined the claim. They said there wasnt enough evidence to support Mr A met the 
definition of incapacity. And it seemed to Unum that Mr As symptoms were due to life and 
workplace stressors. 
Mr A disagreed he was able to perform the duties of a dentist with the symptoms he was 
experiencing, and he provided further evidence from his treating GP and therapist who both 
said he was medically unfit to work. 
Unum looked into his concerns and they asked their psychiatrist to compile a report from a 
review of the medical evidence. The psychiatrist disagreed with the opinions of Mr As 
treating GP and psychologist and concluded Mr A was suffering with work and life stresses 
rather than a mental illness. So Unum maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Unhappy with this, Mr A brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what 
had happened. He didnt think there wasnt enough evidence to show Mr A was 
incapacitated due to an illness. So he said Unum had acted fairly in declining the claim. 
Mr A disagreed because he didnt think Unum had fairly assessed all the medical evidence. 
So the case was passed to me to make a decision. 
I set out my provisional findings to both parties on 11 March 2022 explaining that I was 
intending to uphold this complaint. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and having done so Ive reached a different 
conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why. 
Mr A is required to meet the definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period  in this 
case 27 May 2019 to 25 November 2019. Unum initially declined the claim because they 
werent persuaded by Mr As GP records. Ive looked at these records and they show Mr A 
was attending regular counselling from the start of his illness, throughout the deferred period 
and beyond. The notes also show Mr As treatment was increased to include medication in 
July 2019 and by August the dosage of Mr As medication had doubled, which showed the 
severity of his symptoms. The dosage was reduced by 25% in September due to the side 
effects and Mr A continued on medication until February 2020.
Mr A was engaging with treatment for his conditions and at times these treatments were 
helping him to improve. Unum have highlighted that by October 2019 the GP records that 
things are settling down which they said suggested Mr A wasnt incapacitated the whole 
deferred period. But I disagree. I think the comments made during his GP sessions have 
been taken out of context because Im satisfied they were in response to the changes to his 
medication and a reference to how he felt more broadly since his previous session. Periods 
of improvement in mental state is a reasonable reaction following a change in medication - 
but it doesnt mean Mr A was well enough to perform the duties of a dentist. I think its 
unreasonable Unum are expecting a linear journey with mental health treatment. So whilst 
progress was recorded by the GP in October 2019, I think it was unfair for Unum to decline 
Mr As claim on that basis. 
Mr A then provided Unum with further medical evidence from his treating GP and therapist to
help support his claim. Both medical professionals agreed Mr A was suffering with anxiety 
and depression and that he was medically unfit to work in his occupation. But Im not 
persuaded this evidence was fairly considered by Unum.
The GP wrote a letter to confirm Mr As: period of anxiety has been continuous and he has
been unable to work throughout. Mr A also provided a detailed letter from his CBT therapist
setting out the notes from their sessions. She recorded that Mr As decision-making abilities
and concentration levels were severely impacted and he suffered from compulsive checking
behaviour. In her opinion, it was too much for Mr A to be able to meet the demands of his
profession with his medical conditions. Given his profession and the level of responsibilities
required of him in relation to the safety of his patients, she concluded he had been unfit to 
work throughout.
As both accounts from Mr As treating medical professionals are consistent that he was
suffering from debilitating anxiety and depression, I think it was unfair for Unum to say that 
there was no evidence Mr A was suffering from an underlying medical condition.
Unums psychiatrist then completed a desk top review of the medical evidence and 
disagreed with the opinions of Mr As treating GP and psychologist. He said Mr A was 
suffering with workplace and life stresses and he wasnt persuaded he had a mental illness. I 
think its important to note that Mr A has suffered from anxiety before. He attended CBT 
therapy in 2015 which he found to be a successful treatment so he went back to the same 
psychologist when his symptoms returned in 2019. But I dont think Unum picked up on this. 
Mr As previous treatment for a mental health condition adds weight to there being 
underlying medical reasons for the symptoms he experienced again in 2019, rather than it 
being a reaction to life and work stressors as suggested by Unum and their psychiatrist. So 
whilst I acknowledge the desktop assessment completed by Unums medical team, Im more 
persuaded by the medical opinions of Mr As treating GP and psychologist. The psychologist 
had treated Mr A previously for the same condition, so I think she was best placed to 
determine Mr As ability and readiness for work again in 2019.
In summary I think its clear in this case Mr A was willing to return to work as soon as he was
able  the evidence refers to several failed attempts to ease himself back into the dentistry
environment. Its important to keep in mind what Mr As insured role involves against the
symptoms he was experiencing. Im satisfied theres enough contemporaneous medical
evidence, from two independent medical professionals, that show Mr As symptoms were so
debilitating he was unable to work as a dentist. Its unreasonable for Unum to conclude
someone suffering from poor decision making and a lack of concentration would be capable 
of carrying out the duties of a dentist.
The overall evidence persuades me it is most likely that Mr A was suffering from an illness 
and he met the definition of incapacity when he made the claim. So I think Unum should put 
things right by paying the outstanding policy benefit to Mr A from the date that the claim was rejected up to when he returned to work in May 2020. Unum should also add 8% simple 
interest to the settlement figure.
Mr A accepted my findings and Unum confirmed they didnt have anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr A accepted my provisional decision and Unum didnt make any further representations 
about the outcome of this complaint, theres no reason for me to reach a different conclusion 
to that which I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision, Im upholding this 
complaint and direct Unum Ltd to: 
-pay the outstanding policy benefit to Mr A from the date that the claim was first rejected up 
to when he returned to work in May 2020. 
-add 8% simple interest to the settlement figure.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Unum Ltd and direct them to resolve things as Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman