DRN-2055872
The complaint
Mr L complains Link Financial Investments Limited (LFIL) caused delays in updating his 
address which resulted in his monthly withdrawal payments being suspended.
What happened
On 29 November 2019, Mr Ls financial advisers sent LFIL his change of address request. 
As this wasnt signed by a regulated financial adviser, LFIL requested a change of address 
form directly from Mr L.  This wasnt received, so on 6 January 2020, LFIL attempted to 
verify Mr Ls address electronically in order to issue his withdrawal payment. LFIL said that 
as they couldnt authenticate his new address, they issued a letter requesting proof of 
identity and address documents from Mr L, and suspended his payments in accordance with 
their terms and conditions. 
LFIL received Mr Ls change of address form on 9 January 2020. But they didnt release his 
payment as they were still awaiting his verification documents. On 7 February 2020, LFIL 
received a certified copy of Mr Ls bank statement and passport. However, LFIL didnt accept 
Mr Ls passport as proof of identity because a copy of the signature page hadnt been 
provided. LFIL reviewed a further copy of the passport on 24 February 2020. But as this still 
didnt meet their requirements, they wrote to Mr Ls advisor on the same day.  
On 4 March 2020, LFIL received a certified copy of Mr Ls passport which was accepted. 
LFIL said it also released Mr Ls withdrawal payments for January and February totalling 
£210. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She felt LFILs 
requests were reasonable and in line with their policy. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said he didnt understand why LFIL 
werent able to accept the signature page and photo page being sent separately. He also 
didnt feel it was reasonable to suspend his payments during that time. As Mr L did not agree 
with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and essentially for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
When considering the complaint, Ive looked at whether LFILs actions in requesting 
verification documents were reasonable. I can understand Mr Ls frustration that as a result 
of this, his payments were suspended. But what is important here is the reason why LFIL 
requested additional information and suspended any withdrawal payments.
LFIL, like other financial businesses, have a duty to protect their customers and carry out 
various checks, which is what I think happened here. The terms and conditions of Mr Ls 
account say they may ask for evidence of identity and address from time to time. I can 
understand that Mr L would have been frustrated by this added inconvenience. However, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for LFIL to seek verification documents from Mr L. This was 
for his protection as LFIL were unable to authenticate his address. Ive also looked at the 
requests, and can see they were sent in a timely manner. So I dont think there were any 
unreasonable delays in LFILs requests for further documentation.  
I note that both Mr L and his financial advisor were provided with a guide to the documents 
LFIL required. The guide states a valid passport is one of the documents Mr L can provide 
as proof of identity. Whilst I appreciate the concerns raised about LFIL requesting a copy of 
Mr Ls passport multiple times instead of accepting the signature and photo page separately. 
I dont think its unreasonable for LFIL to request the full document. Im satisfied LFIL havent 
done anything wrong by following the procedure they did to satisfy themselves they had met 
their responsibilities to protect Mr Ls account
The terms of Mr Ls account also state LFIL reserve the right to withhold redemption 
proceeds until they have received satisfactory proof of identity and/or address. Ive looked at 
the letters sent to Mr L, and Ive seen that LFIL explained that until they were in receipt of the 
requested documents, his account would be monitored for transactions and payments 
suspended for his added protection. My understanding is that LFIL has now brought the 
outstanding payments up to date, and since the complaint was made his regular withdrawals 
are being paid as normal. So I dont think Mr L has lost out as a result of the verification 
process.  
Having reviewed the terms, Im satisfied LFIL acted reasonably. I also think the purpose of 
these checks  to protect Mr Ls account  would be meaningless if they were to allow 
payments without the checks being satisfied. As such, its not uncommon for payments to be 
withheld pending successful completion of such checks.  So, I dont think LFIL needs to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020. 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman