DRN-1864807
The complaint
Mr J complains that BW Legal Services Limited pursued him for a debt that wasnt his. Hes 
also unhappy that incorrect information was recorded on his credit file.
Mr Js father has been dealing with the complaint on his behalf. For ease, Ill refer to 
anything hes told us as being said by Mr J.
What happened
In early 2018, Mr J brought a complaint about BW Legal to our service. BW Legal was 
pursuing Mr J for a debt on behalf of its client, who Ill refer to as C. The debt related to a 
payday loan that had been taken out with a lender Ill call L. C had purchased the debt from 
L.
Mr J said hed first been contacted by BW Legal in March 2017. Hed told BW Legal that hed 
never taken out a payday loan. He found out that the loan had been taken out by someone 
with the same name and date of birth as him. But the other Mr J lived in a different part of 
the country. Mr J said hed gone into a branch of the bank the loan had been paid into and 
had confirmation the account belonged to a different person. 
Mr J was unhappy about being pursued for a debt that wasnt his and about markers been 
applied to his credit file. 
An investigator looked into Mr Js complaint but didnt think BW Legal had done anything 
wrong. He concluded that the issue lay with the original lender (L) and suggested Mr J raise 
his concerns with them.
Mr J then made a complaint against L, which he also brought to our service. The investigator 
looking into this complaint liaised with L, BW Legal and the bank the payday loan had been 
paid into. She concluded that Mr J was being pursued for a debt that didnt belong to him. 
The loan was taken out by someone with the same name and date of birth as Mr J who lived 
in a different part of the country. But she didnt think L was responsible for Mr J being 
pursued for the debt or the information on the credit file. Mr J had been linked to the debt 
after L had sold the debt on to C. BW Legal had linked Mr Js address to the debt after doing 
a credit reference agency trace.
After our investigators involvement, BW Legal agreed to ask its client (C) to arrange for      
Mr Js credit file to be amended. It also agreed to stop pursuing Mr J for the debt. 
Following this, in mid-2019, Mr J decided to raise a second complaint against BW Legal. He 
was unhappy that BW Legal had linked the debt to him. He said BW Legal had known from 
the beginning the other Mr J lived in a different part of the country to him. It had been 
provided with solid evidence he wasnt the responsible debtor on numerous occasions. The 
incorrect information on his credit file meant he wasnt able to get a mortgage. And BW 
Legal had threatened Mr J with court action in March 2019, before agreeing to get his credit 
file amended in April 2019.BW Legal said this matter had previously been addressed through the ombudsman service 
and it had concerns about us re-opening it. It said C had deleted the entry associated with 
Mr J on his credit file as a gesture of goodwill and it was no longer affecting his ability to 
obtain credit. It also said it wasnt responsible for any incorrect information on Mr Js credit 
file
A third investigator looked into the concerns Mr J raised in this complaint. He didnt think    
Mr Js complaint should be upheld. He felt that the points Mr J raised had already been 
covered when his original complaint against BW Legal was investigated in 2018.
Mr J disagreed with our investigators view. He said he hadnt received a formal response to 
his initial complaint from BW Legal. The information BW Legal had disclosed to the 
ombudsman service in March 2018, wasnt disclosed to him until nearly a year later. If he 
had seen it, he wouldnt have agreed to direct his complaint towards L. This was because 
the letter of March 2018 showed that BW Legal knew everything required to cast doubt on its 
initial choice of Mr J as the debtor. It acknowledged receiving Mr Js bank account statement 
from the time the loan was taken out, showing him living in a different part of the country to 
the debtor and banking with a different bank. It had the original credit agreement for the 
defaulted loan. And it acknowledged that Mr J had previously told it bank staff had confirmed 
his photo ID didnt match that of the debtors bank account.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 April 2020 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mr Js complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold part of Mr Js complaint.
Id like to start off by acknowledging that this has been a protracted dispute, involving three 
complaints and various parties. The situation will have been very frustrating for Mr J who 
was pursued for a debt he didnt owe and says hes had difficulty obtaining credit because of 
information that was showing on his credit file.
As this complaint is against BW Legal, I can only consider its obligations as the debt 
collector. It also wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider issues that were previously dealt 
with as part Mr Js previous complaint against BW Legal in 2018. But I can consider BW 
Legals actions after Mr Js initial complaint was concluded, in May 2018.
The relevant industry rules required BW Legal to take reasonable steps to verify the 
accuracy and adequacy of the available data so as to ensure that the true customer was 
pursued for the debt.
I can see BW Legal sent Mr J two letters after the first complaint concluded. These are dated 
December 2018 and March 2019. The second letter said that court action would be 
considered if payment wasnt made within 14 days.
BW Legal says that during this period it understood that it was pursuing the correct person 
and so contact was for legitimate reasons. It says it issued a response to our service in April 
2018 and didnt hear from us again until March 2019, when the investigator of the complaint 
against L asked for information about a potential mistrace. 
BW Legal says it responded a couple of weeks later saying it was satisfied that Mr J was the 
correct customer as confirmed by credit reference agencies and no further trace was required. If the data did prove to be incorrect, it was because the data sourced from the 
credit reference agencies was incorrect. 
A few days later a representative from the bank the loan was paid into attempted to call BW 
Legal to advise that in light of Mr J visiting the branch and the evidence provided, it was 
pursuing the wrong individual. BW Legal says it was unable to act on this information 
because of its obligations under the Data Protection Act and the caller being an unverified 
and unauthorised third party. So, it could only note it on file.
BW Legal says that when our investigator sent it an email saying that the bank had been in 
contact with the ombudsman service and she believed BW Legal was pursuing the wrong 
person, no further collections based correspondence or calls were made to Mr J.
Ive considered BW Legals points, but I dont think it took sufficient steps to ensure it was 
pursuing the right person for the debt in late 2018 and early 2019. I say this because Mr J 
had previously contacted BW Legal several times to say that it was pursuing the wrong 
person. Hed sent bank statements from around the time that the loan was taken out to show 
that his address didnt match the address on the credit agreement, and that he lived in a 
different part of the country. Hed also told BW Legal that the bank branch had confirmed the 
loan had been paid into the account of a different Mr J.
BW Legal has relied on the information from the credit reference agencies. But from what 
Ive seen, the reason Mr J was linked to the debt was because of the trace BW Legal had 
done in early 2017. 
Its an unfortunate coincidence that the person who took out the loan had the same full name 
and date of birth as Mr J. But I think that Mr J had given BW Legal enough information to at 
least cast doubt that it was pursuing the right person. And I dont think BW Legal gave 
proper consideration to the information Mr J had provided before it began to pursue him for 
the debt again.
While the investigator who looked into Mr Js first complaint didnt think it should be upheld, 
he hadnt concluded that BW Legal was pursuing the right person. This matter hadnt been 
resolved when BW Legal started to send letters to Mr J again in December 2018. So, I feel 
BW Legal should have done more to make sure that the true customer was being pursued 
for the debt.
I appreciate that BW Legal only sent two letters to Mr J in the timeframe Im considering. But 
I think this caused Mr J a fair amount of additional distress and frustration. He was being 
chased for payment and threatened with court action, when hed already contacted BW 
Legal several times to try to prove he wasnt the debtor.
So, I intend to award Mr J £200 compensation for the trouble and upset he experienced 
because of BW Legals actions in late 2018 and early 2019.
I understand that Mr J is also unhappy about incorrect information on his credit file as a 
result of the debt being linked to him. Hes told us a mortgage application was turned down 
for this reason. But as the debt collector, BW Legal isnt responsible for recording data on    
Mr Js credit file. This responsibility belonged to the owner of the debt, C. So, I cant consider 
the impact of this as part of Mr Js complaint against BW Legal.
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me further information or comments they wanted 
me to consider before I issued my final decision.
BW Legals responseBW Legal said given that Mr Js first complaint hadn't been upheld, it would suggest BW 
Legal hadnt been responsible for any wrongdoing. There was no reason for BW Legal to 
conclude the wrong party was being pursued and prevent any further contact. There was no 
change in circumstances which required additional consideration before BW Legal decided 
to pursue Mr J for the debt again. 
It said the link to the debt was not created by BW Legal as the link already existed at the 
time of the trace. BW Legal did not furnish the credit reference agencies with this 
information.
Mr Js response
Mr J provided a summary of what had happened over the last few years, including his 
dealings with BW Legal, the ombudsman service and the other businesses involved. He felt 
that everything needed to resolve his first complaint was contained within a letter from BW 
Legal to the ombudsman dated March 2018.
He said there are a number of quantifiable costs hes had to face as a result of BW Legals 
actions. These include a declined mortgage, the lump sum purchase of a new vehicle and 
time taken off work. He holds BW Legal entirely responsible for the costs he incurred from 
April 2018 to April 2019, when his credit file was repaired.
Mr J has had to take time off work to deal with corresponding to BW Legal and for two visits 
to the main bank branch (of the account the loan was paid into). He estimates hes lost 
around £300 of wages because of this.
Mr J also feels he would have been in a better position on the property ladder if hed been 
able to move into a shared ownership property in early 2018.
He also commented on the relationship between BW Legal, C and L. He questioned how 
BW Legal can claim not to be responsible for the information on his credit report when it is 
Cs representative and it instructed the credit reference agency to both place and remove the 
report from his credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BW Legal has given the outcome of Mr Js first complaint as a reason for its actions following 
this. But the investigator who looked into Mr Js first complaint didnt make a finding as to 
whether or not BW Legal was pursuing the wrong party. BW Legal already had information 
to suggest there might be another Mr J with the same name and date of birth as him and that 
they were likely to be pursuing the wrong one. Mr J had made contact with BW Legal several 
times regarding this. 
Its unclear why BW Legal decided to pass this information on to the original creditor rather 
than dealing with this itself. But I think it could have resolved the issue if it had properly 
considered this information and liaised with the other parties involved. 
BW Legal says it didn't link Mr J to the debt. But its previously sent us screenshots of the 
trace it sent to a credit reference agency in December 2016 and what was returned in 
January 2017. The information it provided to the credit reference agency was Mr Js name 
and date of birth. But the address BW legal provided was the one on the credit agreement 
(belonging to the other Mr J) and what came back was Mr Js address. Its understandable that BW Legal concluded the two Mr Js were the same person, given 
their shared date of birth. But I think BW Legal should have paid more attention to what Mr J 
was saying, when he repeatedly told it that someone with the same name and date of birth 
as him (but who lived in a different part of the country) had taken out the loan and the 
information hed provided to support this.
As the debt collector, BW Legals obligation was to take reasonable steps to verify the 
accuracy and adequacy of the available data to ensure the true customer was pursued for 
the debt. I dont think BW Legal met this obligation when it started to pursue Mr J for the debt 
again - in December 2018. 
Id like to reassure Mr J that Ive considered all of the points hes raised, even if I havent 
referred to them individually. I dont doubt that this has been a lengthy and distressing 
experience for him. And hes likely to have suffered financial loss because of this situation. 
But Im limited to what I can consider within the scope of this complaint.
Mr J is particularly unhappy about the wrong information appearing on his credit file and the 
impact this has had on his ability to borrow. But as I said in my provisional decision, its the 
owner of the debt (C) who was responsible for the information showing on Mr Js credit file. 
While BW Legal might have provided the information used to update Mr Js credit file, Im 
unable to hold it responsible for what was on there because the obligation to ensure it was 
correct belonged to C.
Mr J has made various points about BW Legals actions since it first started to pursue him for 
the debt. I appreciate Mr Js frustrations regarding this. But it wouldnt be appropriate for me 
to consider issues that were previously dealt with as part of Mr Js previous complaint 
against BW Legal. This means Im limited to looking at BW Legals actions from May 2018. 
And as Ive said, this would only be in its role as the debt collector. 
Having considered the comments by both parties, I havent been persuaded to change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I dont think BW Legal took sufficient steps 
to ensure it was pursuing the right person for the debt in late 2018 and early 2019. And I 
think £200 would be fair compensation for the distress and frustration Mr J experienced 
because of this. 
Putting things right
BW Legal must pay Mr J £200 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct BW Legal Services Limited to pay him £200 for trouble 
and upset.
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman