DRN-4070913
The complaint
Ms M complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has dealt with a claim on her home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2021 Ms M made a claim following a leak of water in the bathroom of her home. 
AXA accepted the claim and appointed claims handlers to deal with it. They issued a report 
which explained that water had pooled under the floor and seeped into the lounge and 
kitchen. 
 
AXA agreed repair works to be carried out. This was was initially expected to take about six 
to eight weeks.
Ms M and her family moved out of their home in July 2021. Dryers were put in place to dry 
out the property for six weeks and AXA agreed the family should be given alternative 
accommodation for 12 weeks. Some accommodation was offered but it wasnt local, so 
Ms M found somewhere herself. 
Due to delays getting repairs done, Ms M agreed a cash settlement with AXA so she could 
arrange her own contractors to do the work in the bathroom. 
The bathroom was reinstated in November 2021 but the wood floor in the lounge needed to 
be replaced and this took some time to arrange. In April 2022 the furniture and damaged 
flooring were removed but it was then found the wrong flooring had been ordered, so this 
had to be re-ordered. 
The flooring was replaced in August 2022 but there were still problems with damp and other 
issues.
Ms M made a number of complaints to AXA about delays and then referred the complaint to 
this Service. Her complaint covers a number of issues, including: 
there have been long delays with the works being completed and shes been out of
her own home throughout;
the quality of the work has been poor;
AXA has been late making payments for the alternative accommodation; and
shes had little communication about progress with the claim, with emails sometimes 
going unanswered.
AXA provided final response letters to Ms Ms complaints accepting there had been delays 
and that it had been late with the alternative accommodation and other payments throughout 
the claim. Up to January 2023 it paid a total of £575 in compensation.
Ms M didnt think the compensation was enough to reflect all the problems she and her 
family have experienced. She also said her premiums increased significantly due to the 
costs involved in this claim, mainly due to the increased alternative accommodation costs.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld and asked AXA to make a further 
payment of £750. AXA accepted this but Ms M didnt agree and has requested an 
ombudsmans decision. Amongst other things, she says 
shes incurred costs for services they were not using due to being away from home  
(including council tax, water and fuel bills);
the bathroom was done by December 2021 but the floors and decorating were not 
done until August 2022 and then needed to be rectified, as drying out had not been 
done correctly;
further delays followed  by January 2023 they had still not returned home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's not in dispute that the policy provides cover for Ms Ms claim and AXA has accepted 
there have been delays both in dealing with the repairs and arranging payments. The issue I 
need to decide is whether the further compensation of £750 recommended by the 
investigator is fair.
When considering this, Ive taken into account relevant industry rules and guidance, which 
say insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help 
a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress; and not 
unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims promptly once settlement terms are 
agreed.
In this complaint Im only considering events up to the final response AXA sent to Ms M in 
January 2023. I understand there have been further issues since then but those would need 
to be looked at separately. 
It's not in dispute that there were delays dealing with the claim. In December 2022 AXA 
appointed loss adjusters to take over the claim and bring it to a conclusion. Until then it had 
been dealt with by claims handlers on AXAs behalf. The information about how the claim 
was handled up to then is fairly limited, but Ive noted a number of issues including the 
following:
The claim was made in June 2021 but little progress had been made with repairs by 
October.
AXA then agreed to pay a cash settlement to Ms M to deal with the repairs to the 
bathroom, and these were dealt with by her contractors in November 2021.
An update in May 2022 advised that repair work on the lounge and kitchen hadnt 
started.
Work to strip out and dry the property was done in August 2022 but Ms M 
complained in October that there were still ongoing delays.
Ms M had problems getting updates and AXAs own records show it had concerns 
about the information being provided as well as the overall handling of the claim by 
the claims handlers, with poor control of the claim.
A report in November 2022 said there were signs of trapped moisture from the 
original incident; the wall probably hadnt dried out completely and had been painted 
with what appeared to be non-breathable paint; and trapped moisture was causing 
issues.
In December 2022 Ms M was told her family could return home in two weeks but this 
didnt give enough time to arrange a deep clean of the house and the return of 
contents that had been put in storage.A claim of this nature would have taken some months to deal with in any event. But Ms M 
would have expected AXA to take prompt action at each stage and keep her informed of 
progress, in line with its obligations. That didnt happen and Ms M has described how this 
affected her whole family, which was upsetting for her. I agree AXA should make a further 
payment to Ms M. 
Ms M says £750 isnt enough for two years of delays. The period Im considering is only up 
to January 2023. A payment of £750 in addition to the £575 AXA has already paid would 
mean the total compensation for the delays and other issues up to that point is £1,325. 
Taking all of the above into account, I think thats a reasonable amount to acknowledge the 
distress caused by the delays and poor communication up to that point. Any further issues 
after that date can be considered separately.
Ms M has mentioned she was paying some bills for a property that her family wasnt living in. 
I appreciate that would have been frustrating but I dont think it would be fair to ask AXA to 
pay those; bills such as utilities or her home insurance are things they would have to pay in 
any event.
Finally, Ms M says the cost of her premiums has increased due to the ongoing claim. There 
are many factors which affect how much the premiums will be, including claims history. AXA  
said it would review this once the claim was concluded and the final costs known and I think 
thats fair.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay compensation of £750 to 
Ms M for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman