DRN-2903816
The complaint
Miss P complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly restricted and later closed her 
accounts with it. Miss P says shes an unwitting victim of fraud and is now unable to open an 
account elsewhere. 
What happened
Miss P had a number of accounts with Barclays. In mid-March 2020, roughly £9,000 was 
transferred into Miss Ps current account. Shortly after, Barclays applied restrictions on 
Miss Ps account. 
Barclays spoke to Miss P about this sum  principally where it had come from and its 
purpose. After completing its internal review, Barclays wrote to Miss P in April 2020 to 
explain it was closing her accounts with immediate effect. 
Unhappy with Barclays actions, Miss P complained. Barclays looked into Miss Ps complaint 
and said the outcome it had reached to restrict, and then close her accounts, was correct 
given its internal processes. Miss P referred her complaint to this service. 
Around May 2020, Barclays closed Miss Ps accounts. It transferred the money held within 
them into one of its own sundry accounts. 
Miss P says she can not open a new bank account as shes been blacklisted and doesnt 
currently have valid identity documents nor proof of her address. So, to put things right she 
wants Barclays to re-instate her accounts and return her funds.  
One of our investigators then looked into the matter and they didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. In summary they found: 
Barclays has legal and regulatory obligations to adhere to. This means it may carry 
out reviews on its customer accounts which may lead to restrictions being placed on 
them. 
Barclays havent caused any undue delay in carrying out its review and blocking 
Miss Ps accounts.
Barclays havent done anything wrong by closing Miss Ps account with immediate 
effect and it did so in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Our investigator also gave Miss P some information to help her open a bank account given 
the problems she had told us about. Barclays were happy to give Miss P her funds back as 
long she was able to give them certain documents as proof of identity and address. To help 
Miss P with this, our investigator gave her a direct telephone number for a contact at 
Barclays who said they could help. 
Miss P was unhappy with what our investigator said. She doesnt feel Barclays have acted 
fairly by closing her accounts given she was the victim of fraud. She said shes still trying to 
understand who put the large sum of money into her account in March 2020. Miss P also 
says the terms of the account allow Barclays to immediately close her account if she had 
committed fraud  but she hasnt and is instead the victim.  
Miss P says she has a new account, but that bank doesnt accept cheques nor is she able to 
put cash into it. 
This matter has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint. I know this will disappoint 
her, so Ill explain why. 
The investigator was right to point out Barclays has important legal and regulatory
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened.
To comply with its obligations Barclays may need to review an account and/or restrict its
customers access. If Barclays didnt comply with its obligations it could risk serious
sanction. In order to meet these requirements Barclays is entitled to ask a customer for
more information about how they use their account, including payments which are made into
an account.
I note Miss P says the review was caused by someone, who may be acquainted with her 
neighbour, depositing a large sum of money into her account without her knowledge. 
Barclays have given me a copy of calls its fraud complaints handler conducted with Miss P. 
Ive listened to these carefully, and I note a conversation is had about the origin of a couple 
of payments  including the large sum  with Miss P. Barclays agent also tells Miss P it 
suspects the money is from the proceeds of fraud and/or a scam. 
They go onto explain that when Barclays is informed about something like this, a wider more 
intricate review of a customers accounts are completed. The agent explains he cant go into 
specific details about its investigation, but its decision to close Miss Ps account is the 
correct one. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Barclays to restrict Miss Ps accounts and ask her for information relating to activity on 
them. 
So, whilst I accept this matter would have caused Miss P inconvenience, I cant say
Barclays treated her unfairly when it blocked her account.
A short while after restricting Miss Ps bank accounts, Barclays took the decision to
close both her accounts.
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank.
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Barclays and Miss P had to comply with, say
that it could close the account. The terms go onto explain what those circumstances are, andwhen Barclays can close it immediately.
Miss P questions whether Barclays have fairly applied the account terms and conditions.  
Ive already said Barclays has important legal and regulatory obligations to adhere to. And I 
note the relevant term says: 
When we can close an account or end a service
We can close an account (and stop providing any services and end this agreement) by 
giving you at least two months notice. Any benefit or services linked to your account will 
stop at the same time. However, we may end this agreement immediately or on less notice 
(and stop providing services and close your account) if we reasonably believe you have 
seriously or persistently broken any terms of the agreement or we have reasonable grounds 
for thinking you have done any of the following things, which you must not do:
 You put us in a position where we might break a law, regulation,
code or other duty that applies to us if we maintain your account.
 You give us any false information at any time.
 You commit (or attempt) fraud against us or someone else.
 You use (or allow someone else to use) your account illegally or for
criminal activity, including receiving proceeds of crime into
your account.
 You inappropriately let someone else use your account.
 You behave in a threatening or abusive manner to our staff.
 You become bankrupt (unless you have a Barclays Basic Current
Account).
We can also end this agreement immediately (and stop providing services and close your 
account) if we reasonably believe that maintaining your account might expose us (or another 
Barclays company) to action or censure from any government, regulator or law enforcement 
agency.
Given the information presented to me by Barclays, and other relevant parties; and having
looked at the wording of the applicable terms, I cant say Barclays acted unfairly in closing
Miss Ps account with immediate effect. I understand its concern.
So it follows that Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to close the account in the way that it
has done. Id also add that Barclays is under no legal obligation that Im aware of which 
requires it to give the exact basis for its actions. 
So because of that I wont be revealing its exact justification in my decision. Based on the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays had a lawful basis for taking the action it did. In 
reaching this outcome, Id like to assure Miss P that Ive carefully considered what shes said 
about being an unwitting victim of a fraud here. But that doesnt change my mind. 
I note Miss P is concerned shes been blacklisted and that she cannot open the type of 
bank account she requires. Shes also told us she doesnt have sufficient proof of identity 
and address which is needed to open such an account, and for her to withdraw the money 
from her Barclays accounts. 
Barclays have told Miss P that it hasnt loaded any marker on her credit file which would 
impair her ability to get financial products from other banks or providers. But it has placed an 
internal marker which would prevent her from getting an account, and/or other financial 
products from Barclays. As I havent seen anything else to the contrary, Im satisfied Miss P 
isnt blacklisted in the way she is concerned about. And Barclays hasnt done anything wrong by placing an internal marker against her. 
Barclays has commercial discretion to decide who it has a customer relationship with.  
Its common industry practice, and a legal and regulatory requirement, for regulated 
businesses to have affective processes in place to verify its customers. This includes being 
given valid identity and proof of address documents. 
As Miss P doesnt have these in valid format, I dont think Barclays should make 
concessions to release Miss Ps fund without being satisfied its meeting its legal or 
regulatory requirements.    
To conclude, and to surmise, Barclays hasnt done anything wrong by restricting and later 
closing Miss Ps accounts. Barclays hasnt loaded any fraud marker to Miss Ps credit 
records and nor is it acting unreasonably by asking for certain proofs to return Miss Ps funds 
to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
Ketan Nagla 
Ombudsman
