DRN-3712578
The complaint
Mr E complains about a conditional sale agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, 
where his name was used as a part of a payment guarantee.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr E says he took his grandson, who Ill call X, to a dealer to look at a used 
car theyd seen advertised. Mr E says he wasnt happy with the overall price offered by the 
dealer, which brought about an end to their visit. 
However, Mr E says X returned to the dealer and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander, to get the car. As part of the agreement, Santander included a guarantee 
and indemnity form. This meant whoever signed that form, may be responsible for any 
missed payments by X. The agreement shows that Mr Es details are included on the 
payment guarantee.
About a year later, X missed a payment towards the agreement and Santander contacted 
Mr E, in line with the guarantee. Mr E says he was advised by Santander to make a 
payment, so X could avoid any adverse information being applied to his credit file. Around 
this time, X told Santander that his car had been written off by an insurer,
In January 2020 Mr E complained to Santander and said they gave him incorrect advice 
when they asked him to make a payment under the agreement. He also said a third party 
had forged his signature on the guarantee.
Over the following months, Mr E and Santander exchanged various messages about the 
complaint. Mr E also provided Santander with a summary from a handwriting expert, which 
analysed the signature on the guarantee form. Mr E asked Santander to refund the payment 
hed made under the agreement and pay for the handwriting experts report.
In their final response to Mr Es complaint, Santander said they couldnt comment on what 
was agreed between X and the dealer when the finance for the car was taken out. They also 
told Mr E that the agreement had since been settled and he may wish to put his concerns to 
the dealer.
Mr E didnt accept Santanders response and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Es case and found that Santander had treated Mr E fairly. He 
concluded that the signature on the guarantee was broadly similar to Mr Es and that Mr E 
had initially met with the dealer and X.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said the dealer had settled the 
conditional sale agreement to avoid any investigation about how the guarantee was signed. 
The investigator didnt change his conclusions and Mr Es case has now been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case is about a conditional sale agreement in Xs name taken out with Santander, 
which is a regulated financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it. 
Mr Es name is used on the guarantee indemnity form that Santander relied on, when they 
asked him to make a payment in December 2019. So, I think Mr E is able to bring a 
complaint to us about the agreement with Santander.
However, Mr E says he didnt sign the guarantee indemnity form and that a third party forged 
his signature. To help decide if Santander treated Mr E fairly when they relied on the 
guarantee, Ive thought about the circumstances leading up to the signing of the conditional 
sale agreement. Ive also carefully considered what Mr E said to Santander and to us 
throughout his complaint.
Santanders notes show Mr E initially explained to them that he wasnt at the dealers sales 
office, when X went to talk about a car. The records go on to show that around a month later, 
the dealer provided their recollection of Mr E accompanying X at the sales office. Once 
Santander told Mr E about what the dealer had said, the records show that Mr E confirmed 
that he was with X at the time the agreement was discussed.
On balance, I can see where there are some inconsistencies in what Mr E told Santander 
and us. I accept that at the time Santanders questioning may have had different inferences, 
to how they appear on the contact notes with Mr E. But, Im persuaded Mr E was with X at 
the dealers office in October 2018.
Mr E says he went to the dealers office with X to check the finance details, as X was 
inexperienced with such agreements. I can see from the type of agreement Santander 
offered, that they required a guarantee, should X miss any repayments.
Overall, I think its likely the guarantee indemnity form was discussed when X spoke about 
the conditional sale agreement with the dealer and Santander. Mr E has told us that he had 
concerns about the cost of the finance for X, so I think it follows that he had seen and 
understood the details of the agreement. On balance, Im persuaded that Mr E was aware of 
the content of Xs conditional sale agreement with Santander and that a guarantee was 
needed.
Ive also considered where Mr Es identification, financial and contact details were added to 
Xs application with Santander. Mr E says these details were given in an initial discussion 
with the dealer, but he changed his mind a short time afterwards.
I accept where Mr E says he changed his mind about the contract X had discussed with 
Santander. But, I think the evidence shows that Mr E and X gave their authority to proceed 
with the application, beyond simply talking about the monthly repayment amount or the 
interest rate. 
Im also mindful that Mr E didnt raise how his grandson was able to get the car from the 
dealer, so soon after Mr E says he walked away from any involvement. Based on the 
evidence available, I think Mr E gave his personal details to Santander, to be used for him to 
guarantee the repayments due under the agreement.
Mr E says the evidence from the handwriting expert is significant in his complaint. So, Ive 
thought carefully about the report and the weight we can place upon it. The report is from a source Mr E contracted to compare a sample of his signatures and the 
signature on the guarantee indemnity form. The report concludes that there is strong 
evidence that the signature on the guarantee indemnity form isnt Mr Es. But, the expert also 
says there are several other factors he wasnt able to consider, that would help to make his 
report conclusive. 
Ive looked at the signature on the guarantee indemnity form and some samples provided by 
Mr E. Having done so, I think there are similarities between the two. However, I 
acknowledge where Mr E says there are differences and the trouble hes gone to show that. 
Overall though, Ive placed more weight on the other evidence we have.
In all the circumstances, Im persuaded that Mr E was aware that X needed someone to act 
as a repayment guarantee as part of the loan application. I also think Mr E gave his details to 
the dealer and Santander, for him to provide a guarantee. So, on balance, Im persuaded 
Mr E gave Santander his authority to become a payment guarantee for X.
Mr E has told us that Santander gave him incorrect information, when they called him to 
make up some arrears owed under the agreement in December 2019. Given my findings 
about Mr Es authority to provide a repayment guarantee to Santander, I think they were able 
to contact Mr E when arrears became due.
I accept that Mr E may have felt he didnt have a choice but to make the repayment and that 
he was trying to do the right thing for X. But, I dont think Santander treated him unfairly, by 
explaining that any missed repayment information, may be passed to a credit reference 
agency. I think Santander fulfilled their responsibility to tell him what may happen should any 
arrears be unpaid.
While I acknowledge the lengths Mr E has gone to, where he paid for a handwriting experts 
report, I dont think it would be fair to require Santander to refund that cost.
Throughout his complaint, Mr E has told us of his concerns about the settlement payment 
made by the dealer to Santander. I can see from Santanders records that the dealer paid 
Santander £2,389.85 on 4 March 2021. Mr E says he contributed £260 towards that 
settlement, after reaching an agreement with the dealer where they admitted to a 
wrongdoing.
Our role here is to consider Santanders involvement in Mr Es complaint and to use the 
evidence available to decide if they should take further steps to put things right. Based on all 
the evidence we have, Im not persuaded the dealer has admitted to fraudulently adding 
Mr E as a payment guarantee to Xs conditional sale agreement with Santander.
I agree that the dealer appears to have contributed a large proportion to the settlement of the 
agreement. But I dont think it follows that this means the dealer has acknowledged what 
Mr E has accused them of. So, I think Santander have treated Mr E fairly and I dont think 
Santander need to refund the part of the settlement, which Mr E has asked them to.
In summary, I think Santander treated Mr E fairly when they relied on the guarantee 
indemnity form and I dont think they need to take any further steps to settle Mr Es 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman