DRN-3473068
The complaint
Miss G complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) have treated 
her unfairly in relation to a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In February 2017, Miss G acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from MBFS. 
The cash price of the car was around £41,000 and Miss G paid a deposit of around £3,500 
with the remainder being financed by the hire purchase agreement. She was required to pay 
36 monthly payments of around £600, followed by an optional final payment of £20,350 if 
she wanted to own the car. 
The agreement was due to end in March 2020 with the final payment falling due then. 
However, due to the national lockdown as a result of the global coronavirus pandemic, 
Miss G was unable to source an alternative car by part-exchanging the one she had under 
this finance agreement. MBFS therefore agreed to extend her agreement by three months in 
order to allow Miss G more time to make suitable arrangements. 
The extension to the agreement ended in June 2020, but Miss G had still not been able to 
source finance arrangements to settle the MBFS hire purchase agreement. In October 2020 
the dealership Miss G had been in discussion with informed MBFS that it couldnt offer 
finance to Miss G.
MBFS therefore informed Miss G that she needed to return that car if she couldnt pay off the 
final optional payment. It said she would also need to make payments for the months that 
shed had use of the car since March 2020. 
Miss G complained to MBFS to say it had treated her unfairly. She wanted MBFS to allow 
her to keep the car and write-off any remaining balance. She said that MBFS attempts to 
collect payments and the car from her had caused her mental health to deteriorate. MBFS 
didnt agree it had acted unfairly towards her. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She didnt think it was 
unreasonable for MBFS to seek recovery of the car and any payments that Miss G had failed 
to make. However, she didnt think MBFS had communicated clearly enough with Miss G 
concerning the three month extension to her agreement and this had caused her avoidable 
upset and confusion about what was happening. She recommended MBFS pay her £75 
compensation. 
MBFS accepted what the investigator had said, but Miss G didnt. She thought MBFS should 
be paying her significantly more compensation. She also made an offer of paying £10,000 to 
settle the finance. However, MBFS didnt agree to this as she owed in excess of double that 
figure. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire purchase agreement was due to come to an end in March 2020 and Miss G was 
seeking to enter into a new agreement by way of part-exchanging the car. Given the 
unprecedented circumstances that were created by the global coronavirus pandemic, it was 
understandable that she wasnt able to do this at that time. I note MBFS offered to extend 
her agreement by three months to assist Miss G in recognition of the unusual circumstances. 
I think it acted fairly in doing this. 
However, as highlighted by our investigator, I think MBFS could have communicated this 
decision more clearly with Miss G. I say this because it seems it only properly confirmed its 
acceptance of a three month extension a few days before it was due to end. This 
understandably gave Miss G the impression that MBFS had agreed a further three month 
extension (for a total of six months), when it hadnt. Although MBFS communication made it 
clear the extension would end in June, I can understand why the timing of the confirmation 
might have caused confusion. MBFS had instructed collections agents to recover the car 
from Miss G at around the same time and this contributed to the confusion and upset for her. 
However, once the confusion was cleared up, MBFS still agreed to hold off collections 
activity, despite the extension of three months having expired. It continued to allow Miss G 
the opportunity to try and arrange settlement of the hire purchase agreement by seeking an 
alternative car and finance. However, it became clear in October 2020 that Miss G wasnt 
going to be able to settle the agreement. I therefore dont think MBFS has acted 
unreasonably since that date in seeking to recover the car and missed payments from 
Miss G. Our investigator recommended that MBFS pay her £75 compensation for the upset 
MBFS communication about the three month extension caused. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied that amount is fair and reasonable.  
Miss G feels that significantly more compensation should be paid and that she should be 
allowed to keep the car, have ownership of it transferred to her and for her not to have to pay 
all of the outstanding balance on the hire purchase agreement. While Ive taken onboard 
everything Miss G has told us about her mental health and the impact MBFSs 
communications and actions have had on her, I cant agree it would be fair and reasonable 
for me to direct MBFS to do as she has asked.
The initial cash price of the car was significantly more than what Miss G has paid to MBFS. 
Further, shes had access to and use of that car for more than an additional two years after 
the agreement should have ended without making payments for that use. To now say she 
should be entitled to keep the car, without having paid the original cash price nor any 
amount of interest to MBFS wouldnt be reasonable or proportionate for the communication 
failures of MBFS.
Overall, I consider MBFS gave Miss G a reasonable amount of time to make arrangements 
to settle the finance agreement. Other than its communication around the three month 
extension, I consider MBFS has acted fairly towards Miss G. I understand Miss G is now 
trying to arrange an affordable repayment plan with MBFS for the outstanding balance. Any 
issues she may have with this arrangement would need to be raised separately with MBFS 
as it doesnt form part of the issues raised in this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to:
Pay Miss G £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman