DRN-3368006
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) 
to transfer his pension into a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and to invest in high 
risk, unregulated investments.
He says hes lost out financially as a result.
What happened
After reaching aged 55, Mr P took advice from Portal about withdrawing cash from his 
personal pension because hed seen an advert about being able to withdraw your pension 
from this age. He was interested as he had credit card debts he wanted to clear.
Mr P followed up on the advert and was put in touch with Portal. All 
discussions took place over the phone, including a fact find interview in April 
2014. Following that interview, he was sent a suitability report, dated 16 April 
2014, by Portal. This set out the advisers recommendations based on Mr 
Ps objective, which was recorded as  You wish to clear your outstanding 
debts.
Mr P was advised by Portal that he would be able to access up to £3,957.25 as tax free 
cash from his personal pension, which was 25% of his estimated transfer value of 
£15,829. His personal pension was his main retirement provision.
Portal asked Mr P to complete an attitude to risk assessment. He was assessed as 
having a balanced attitude to risk (ATR). The report said Mr P had a suitable level of 
Capacity for Loss for the recommendation.
The suitability report gave Mr Ps circumstances at the time of advice as:
aged 55;
owned own home worth approximately £125,000;
worked full time, earning approximately £500 (gross) per week;
outstanding debts of £4,000, which he was repaying at £280 per month;
no other assets or liabilities;
disposable income of just over £600 per month, which was used on holidays.
Portal recommended he transfer his personal pension to a Novia SIPP and take the 
maximum 25% tax free cash. It also made the following investment recommendations for 
the balance of his pension funds.
Lakeview 7.27%
Real Estate USA 14.54%
Strategic Residential 7.27%
UK Hotels Fund 7.27%
Tambaba 10.91%
Invesco Perpetual Distribution 10.55%
Kames Ethical Cautious 10.55%
Aviva Distribution 10.55%
Standard Life Dynamic 10.55%
Cash 10.54%
Mr P was charged an adviser fee of 5% and was to be charged an annual review fee of 1% 
by Portal.
Mr P accepted the recommendation and his personal pension was transferred to Novia in 
May 2014. The transfer value was around £23,811.
After deducting the tax-free cash and adviser fees, Mr Ps Novia SIPP was opened with
a balance of around £16,666. 
Since opening the SIPP, Mr P has withdrawn a total of around £10,232 as a taxable lump 
sum to make home improvements.
As at June 2016, Mr Ps SIPP was worth around £7,244 but his fund is illiquid and 
cannot be accessed.
In September 2020, Mr P complained to Portal through a representative about the advice he 
had received. In November 2020, Portal responded and said that Mr P had brought his 
complaint too late.
Our investigator considered whether we could deal with Mr Ps complaint and 
concluded that we could. She reminded Portal of this services stance on 
jurisdiction regarding complaints of this type. 
She concluded that Mr Ps complaint had been made in time, and in line with our 
general approach to dealing with cases of this type. She went on to deal with the 
merits of Mr Ps complaint.
Our investigator recommended upholding Mr Ps complaint on the merits and set 
out a methodology for providing redress. Through his representative, Mr P 
accepted our investigators view. Portal did not. It said, in summary:
Portal explained the difference between annuity and drawdown options to Mr P. The 
recommendation to transfer to a SIPP was suitable.
Mr P was paying a loan debt of £4,000 and a credit card debt of £1,800 paying in 
total £380 per month to clear these. It was important to him to repay these debts as 
he was nearing retirement.
Mr P would have had to transfer out of his existing personal pension plan to take tax 
free cash as the only option available within his existing plan was to take tax free 
cash with an annuity. Mr P didnt want the income from an annuity at that time.The Novia plan was low cost and stakeholder friendly SIPP. Mr Ps fund could have 
been invested in mainstream pooled funds for a base-cost of 0.8% per annum. This 
was very competitive at the time and well below the pricing-cap for stakeholder 
pension products. The charges were fully disclosed to Mr P.
The proposed redress methodology is not fair taking into account Mr Ps ATR as a 
balanced investor as it does not contain any bond element. The appropriate 
benchmark would be one using 50% fixed rate bonds and 50% FTSE Private 
Investor Income, which is more suited to a moderately cautious investor.
Mr Ps complaint now comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
As explained by our investigator, the rules under which we operate are set out in 
the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. The relevant part of DISP 2.8.2 states:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
It is not in dispute that Mr P brought his complaint to this service within six months of 
receiving a final response from Portal.
Mr P clearly brought his complaint to this service more than six years after the event 
complained of, the advice he received to transfer and invest in unregulated investments 
received in 2014.
So, what I need to go on to consider is DISP 2.8.2(b) - when Mr P likely became aware, 
or ought reasonably to have become aware, that he had cause to complain. I then need 
to look at whether he complained within three years of this date.
Like our investigator, Ive looked carefully at the correspondence Portal says shows that 
Mr P was aware he had cause to complain more than three years before he did. 
I can see his annual statements from 2015 and 2016 show that some of Mr Ps funds were 
illiquid. But they also gave some comfort that Portal was monitoring his investments and it 
was confident he would get the promised returns. 
The 2015 annual pension review letter states the following about Mr Ps SIPP growth:
This is equivalent to 1.36% per yearIt then goes onto confirm the annual target returns of the capital secured bonds are 
between ten and fifteen percent.
The 2016 annual pension review letter states:
This represents a growth of 3.45% after charges for the remainder of your pension fund 
over the past year. We are pleased to say that we are happy with the growth of these 
investments at this time.
Even though the current performance of these investments raises some concerns we 
are not unduly worried. We are in touch with the managers of these investments and 
are currently confident that this element of your pension will grow by the targeted 
amount by the end of the specified investment period.
I dont think that this correspondence wouldve led Mr P to be aware that he had been 
given unsuitable advice by Portal. The SIPP valuations from 2015 and 2016 didnt 
show any significant losses. The letters didnt tell Mr P he should have cause for alarm 
or concern. Portal informed him it was not unduly worried and was confident his 
pension would grow by the targeted amount. 
If Mr Ps experienced and paid adviser was not concerned, I think it unfair of Portal to 
suggest that Mr P, who was neither an experienced nor sophisticated investor, ought 
reasonably to have been aware of cause for concern. Like our investigator concluded, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for him to rely upon and accept what he was told by a 
professional appointed to advise him.
I also dont see that when Mr P asked Portal to remove it as his adviser in April 2017, 
this was indicative of him having concerns about the advice he had received from Portal. 
I think he did this as a cost cutting exercise, so that he didnt have to pay Portals 
ongoing review fee from what was a modest SIPP fund. 
I cant say exactly when Mr P became aware he had cause for complaint. He 
complained in September 2020 and based on what I have been told, I think it likely that 
awareness came within three years of complaining.
I am satisfied this complaint has been made in time and this service can consider the merits 
of it.
Merits
What I need to decide is whether the advice to transfer Mr Ps pension into a SIPP, 
draw the maximum tax-free cash, and invest into the underlying investments, were 
suitable recommendations.
Transfer to take tax free cash (TFC)
The suitability report noted that Mr Ps objective was to access tax free cash to repay 
his debts.
Mr P said he had a disposable income of just over £600 per month. He also mentioned 
his partner having an income. He received just less than £6,000 in TFC which equated 
to around10 months worth of his disposable income. He had debts of around £4,000, 
which he was paying at around £280 month. There was nothing in the fact find notes to 
show that Mr P appeared to be in any financial difficulty.The suitability report did set out other methods of raising money - such as taking a loan 
or remortgage  these were apparently discounted.
Our investigator said there was no evidence of Mr Ps existing pension provider being 
contacted to see if there was a way he could be permitted to take TFC without 
transferring to the SIPP. Portal say that Mr P could only have taken TFC with an annuity, 
which he didnt want to take. If Mr P didnt want to take an immediate income, this would 
tend to suggest that he wasnt in any financial difficulty.
I cant see that Mr P had any obvious or compelling need to take tax free cash given his 
financial circumstances and I cant see that Portal gave him suitable advice taking his 
wider circumstances into account.
Attitude to risk
Mr P was recorded as having a balanced attitude to risk and the fact find notes show he 
wanted to invest in stable funds preferred to equity backed investments. Given the risks 
involved, Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS) and unregulated 
investments cant fairly be described as stable funds. Unregulated investments can be 
prone to lack of regulation, longevity risks, potential insolvency, liquidity issues and other 
factors which can prevent investors from accessing their funds. Some of Mr Ps 
investments also carried currency risks. What was recommended didnt appear to match 
with Mr Ps investment objectives.
Mr P did not have any savings or investments to fall back on. He had no other retirement 
provision apart from his state pension. His capacity for loss, was in my view, therefore 
inconsistent with the investment recommendations made.
Recommended investments
SIPPs provide a wider range of investment options and typically have higher running 
costs in return for the added flexibility and choice. I cant see that Mr P had any 
obvious need for the flexibility offered by the SIPP. Investment choice is not 
something he identified in his objectives. In those circumstances the SIPP appeared 
not to be a cost-effective choice for someone like him, with a very modest fund. 
SIPPs are often considered more suitable choices for those with a much higher 
transfer value than Mr Ps.
Portal said that the SIPP recommended for Mr P was a low -cost option, comparable 
in terms of costs to a stakeholder scheme. On top of the wrapper fee, Mr P also had 
to pay an annual review fee of 1%. Portal said that Mr P could have invested in 
mainstream pooled funds within the SIPP, however that was not what it 
recommended. It recommended a more complex investment strategy, which given 
that Mr P was neither an experienced nor a sophisticated investor likely meant a 
higher need for ongoing advice and monitoring of the investments, which came at a 
cost.
Its not in dispute that Portal recommended that Mr P invest just under half (47.26%) of his 
modest pension fund into UCIS and unregulated funds. As Ive said Mr P appeared not to be 
a sophisticated nor an experienced investor. Given the size of his fund and his other assets 
he clearly wasnt a high net worth investor with an obvious capacity to take on greater risk.
In July 2010  prior to the advice given here, the regulator issued a report entitled 
(Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme: Good and poor practice report). It cited as an example of good practice
The firm set up a maximum portfolio proportion for UCIS investments within their 
customers portfolio and monitored it on an on-going basis. This level was between 3%-5% 
and was backed up by the Firms robust and on-going due diligence and monitoring.
The same document gave as an example of poor practice: The firm had a strategy to put 
all of its customers and all their money into one UCIS. But this could only be promoted to 
sophisticated and experienced investors.
Portals advice seemed to run contrary to what would be regarded as good practice in 
this report.
Overall, Investing nearly half of the money in his SIPP in high risk, unregulated investments. 
I think was inconsistent with Mr Ps ATR to risk, capacity for loss and the good practice 
guidance issued by the regulator. I dont therefore consider Portals investment advice was 
suitable, in Mr Ps individual circumstances. 
Mr P has clearly lost out financially as a result of accepting Portals advice and he has also 
been caused some upset to his retirement planning.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr P as close as possible 
to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr P's circumstances, his attitude to risk and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr P fairly Portal should:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mr P's pension plan, to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Portal shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the compensation into Mr P's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr P's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, 
if Mr P would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Portal should pay Mr P £250 for the trouble an upset caused 
by the disruption to his retirement plans.
Portal should repay the advisers fees together with simple interest at 8% a year, 
from the date the fees were paid to the date of settlement. If the above 
comparison shows that no compensation is payable, the difference between the 
actual value and the fair value can be offset against the fees with interest.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr P in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal consider that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how 
much it has taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start 
date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
Novia SIPPstill exists 
but illiquidFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
transferdate of 
settlementnot 
applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portal should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as above.
If Portal are unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose of calculation. Portal may wish to require that Mr P provides an 
undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on.
If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Portal 
may total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mr P's circumstances and attitude to risk.
Fees
The SIPP largely exists because of the investments. In order for the SIPP to be 
closed and further SIPP fees prevented, these investments need to be removed. But 
if Portal cant buy them, Mr P is faced with future SIPP fees. I think it is fair to assume 
five years of future SIPP fees.
So, if Portal cant buy the investments, it should pay an amount equal to five years of 
SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation calculated 
using a nil value for the investment.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Portal Financial Services LLP to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman