DRN-3448649
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont reimburse the money hes lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Mr F has been the victim of a scam. On 27 March 2021, he received a telephone call from 
someone who said they worked for Lloyds. Heres a summary of what happened during the 
call, and over the next few days:
The caller told him that a fraudulent payment to a company Ill refer to as D had 
debited his Lloyds current account, and further fraudulent payments had been 
attempted but blocked by the bank. Mr F checked his online banking and saw that 
there had been a fraudulent payment of £47.80 to D. 
Mr F was taken through security (I understand that he gave the caller his name, 
address and date of birth, but the caller didnt offer any personal information they 
knew about him) and offered an account change because of the fraud. 
Whilst on the phone, another phone call came through and the caller told him that it 
was the scammer trying to get into his account. 
Mr F checked the callers telephone number against the number for Lloyds on its 
website and the number on the back of his Lloyds debit card. He found that the 
numbers matched and, when he attempted a call to the number, a Lloyds automated 
message played. He says this gave him confidence that he was talking to the bank.
The caller said theyd blocked Mr Fs debit card and they advised him to move his 
money out of the compromised account. As Mr F didnt have an alternative account 
that he could transfer the money in his compromised account to, they said he could 
send his money to a temporary safe account. Mr F explained that his compromised 
account couldnt simply be closed after his money had been transferred because he 
had a cryptocurrency account with another provider that was connected to it. The 
caller said they would work with the cryptocurrency account provider to resolve the 
problem and asked him to give them his online banking login details for both his 
Lloyds and cryptocurrency accounts, which he did. Mr F says he was assured that he 
was giving this information over a secure line, and he was not suspicious of the caller 
because he was convinced that he was talking to Lloyds.
Mr F transferred £5,000 and then £4,500 to two different safe accounts. He says 
that the caller coached him through the payments  telling him to use the friends and 
family payment option. He then transferred £2,000 to his cryptocurrency account. 
These payments removed most of the money from his account.
On 28 March 2021, the caller contacted him again. They said its possible that the 
scammer could take out a loan in his name via mobile banking. They asked him to do 
a test loan application and said he would be able to see from his credit reference file 
that it wasnt a real loan because it wouldnt show up (unbeknown to Mr F, new 
lending would not show on a credit reference file immediately). The first loan 
application Mr F made for £11,000 was declined, but his second application for 
£10,500 was successful. The loan funds were paid into his Lloyds account on         
29 March 2021. To secure the money, Mr F was asked to transfer it to his 
cryptocurrency account. So, he sent two payments of £5,000 and £5,200 as 
requested. The scammer was able to withdraw the loan funds from his 
cryptocurrency account, along with the £2,000 hed transferred previously, using the 
login details hed given them. Mr F says he received withdrawal notifications from his 
cryptocurrency account provider, but the caller told him not to worry about them as it 
was part of the co-operation between the two financial institutions.
On 7 April 2021, Mr F received written confirmation from Lloyds of a new loan 
account. He went into a branch to query this and, at this point, it became apparent 
that hed been scammed.
Mr F has said that he has been left in financial difficulties, and the situation has had a 
detrimental effect on his physical and mental health. The trouble and upset hes experienced 
has led to absence from work due to a lack of focus, which has further contributed to his 
financial difficulties. He feels that Lloyds should have been monitoring his account for 
suspicious activity and taken action to prevent the situation. So, he would like Lloyds to: 
recover his stolen money.
unwind the loan and reimburse any contractual repayments he has made.
cover his lost income due to absence from work.
pay him compensation for his trouble and upset.
Lloyds declined to reimburse the two faster payments that Mr F made to third-party accounts 
under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) 
because it said that he ignored the following effective warning, relevant to bank 
impersonation scams, that it gave on two occasions after he selected the friends and family 
payment option:
how well do you know this person?
Well never ask you to move your money to another account.
Fraudsters can even copy our telephone number.
Dont believe them. Hang up the phone.
Learn more about this scam (link).
It also said that he didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when he made the payments  
he was convinced by the telephone number spoofing but the warnings it gave him said that 
fraudsters can copy its telephone number, the scammer didnt know any personal 
information about him and he was asked to send the payments to temporary accounts that 
werent in his name (confirmed by confirmation of payee matches).  
Lloyds said that the two faster payments to third-party accounts were in line with Mr Fs 
usual account activity and made hours apart (fraudulent payments usually follow one after 
the other), so they didnt seem unusual or suspicious. By the time Lloyds was notified that 
Mr F had been defrauded, no funds remained in the beneficiary accounts to recover. But, as 
the receiving bank of the beneficiary account that received the £5,000 payment, Lloyds said 
it hadnt followed proper account opening procedures, so it refunded 50% of that payment 
(£2,500).Lloyds advised Mr F to contact his cryptocurrency account provider about the funds the 
fraudster had removed from that account. It declined to unwind the loan and confirmed it was 
holding him liable for the loan repayments. 
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator thought that Lloyds shouldve refunded the two faster payments Mr F made 
to third-party accounts under the CRM Code, and taken some action to prevent the fraud 
altogether. But he also thought that Mr F shared some of the responsibility for his loss. He 
recommended that Lloyds:
refund the fraudulent payment of £47.80 to D.
reimburse the remaining £7,000 loss from the two faster payments Mr F made to 
third-party accounts.
remove interest from the loan.
refund 50% of the payments Mr F made to his cryptocurrency account (£6,100) and 
use this amount to reduce the outstanding loan balance.
allow Mr F to repay the remaining loan balance under a reasonable repayment plan.
Lloyds accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr F wasnt happy with the outcome 
because he said it doesnt address his consequential losses. He argues that if Lloyds had 
have stopped the fraud as it should, then none of his losses would have occurred.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has made an offer to settle this complaint, so Ive thought about whether its offer is 
fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that it is, and Ill explain why.
The payment of £47.80 to D
Its unclear, from the evidence Ive seen, whether the £47.80 payment to D was authorised 
and consented to under the Payment Services Regulations. But it does appear to have been 
made as part of the scam and Lloyds has offered to refund the payment, so I dont need to 
go on to consider this loss any further. I think Lloyds offer is fair.
The faster payments to third-party accounts
Lloyds is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr F fell 
victim to when he transferred £5,000 then £4,500 to third-party accounts, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. Lloyds had argued that two of the exceptions apply in this case  
it had said that Mr F ignored effective warnings it gave during the payment journeys and he 
made the payments without a reasonable basis for belief that the payee was the person he 
was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the person or 
business he was transacting with was legitimate. But Lloyds has now agreed to fully 
reimburse the payments. I think that Lloyds offer is reasonable in the circumstances. I dont 
think the warnings it gave Mr F were impactful enough to be considered effective warnings 
under the CRM Code, and I dont think its unfair to say that Mr F had a reasonable basis for 
belief when he made the payments considering that he was in a pressured situation, Lloyds 
number had been spoofed (he called the number back and heard an automated message from Lloyds play) and the scammer had pointed out the fraudulent payment to D. I can 
understand why he was convinced, in the heat of the moment, that nothing was amiss.
In addition, I think that Lloyds ought reasonably to have done more to prevent Mr F from 
making the payments. Ive looked at his account statements in the six months leading up to 
the scam. I can see that he had made some fairly high value payments to his cryptocurrency 
account and via direct debit card, ranging from £1,000 to £3,000. But the payments he made 
to the third-party accounts were by far the highest value transactions/faster payments hed 
made, and they both went to new payees, in quick succession. I think they stand out as 
unusual and out of character. So, its reasonable to expect Lloyds to have asked him some 
questions about the payments. Had it done so, I think the scam wouldve quickly unfolded 
and Mr F wouldnt have gone ahead with the payments.
The relevance of this finding is that Lloyds ought to have prevented the payments, rather 
than just reimbursed Mr F under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows that Lloyds 
should pay Mr F interest from the date of loss, rather than the date it decided not to refund 
him under the CRM Code.
I cant know for certain what Mr F wouldve done with the funds he lost had he not been 
defrauded. But it looks like he was using his current account to save money  he kept a 
healthy credit balance in the account that increased over time, and hes said he lost his 
savings to the scam. So, it seems likely that the funds wouldve remained in his current 
account, at least for a time. So, I think its fairest to award interest at the account rate
The loan and the payments to Mr Fs cryptocurrency account
Mr F has said that Lloyds shouldve done more to prevent the fraud, and I agree. Taking into 
account what Ive said about the faster payments to third-party accounts, I think the scam 
would most likely have unwound before Mr F started making payments to his cryptocurrency 
account or applied for the loan if Lloyds had intervened when I consider it should have. So, it 
couldve prevented Mr Fs loss and I think its fair for it to bear some responsibility, as it has 
agreed to do. But I also think Mr F ought to have done more to protect himself from the 
fraud, so its fair for him to bear some responsibility for his loss too. I say this because:
I dont think the warning Lloyds gave Mr F when he made the two faster payments to 
third-party accounts was impactful enough to be considered effective under the CRM 
Code, but it was a pretty good warning, which was relevant to the type of scam Mr F 
fell victim to. It said that Lloyds wouldnt call him to ask him to move money to 
another account, and it pointed out that fraudsters can copy Lloyds telephone 
number. I dont know how much attention Mr F paid to the warning when he made 
the faster payments to third-party accounts, or how much he relied on it. He says he 
saw it. But he was being coached through the payments by the scammer at the time, 
he was in a pressured situation, and the scammer knew details about his account 
which reassured Mr F that he was speaking to Lloyds. So, I can understand why he 
moved past the warning on 27 March 2021. But the scam went on for several days 
and I think its reasonable to expect Mr F to have reflected on the warnings hed been 
given and what he was being asked to do once the initial pressure was off. If he'd 
done so, I think its likely he wouldve realised that all was not as it seemed, and he 
should take some steps to protect himself from further financial harm.
As the scam went on, Mr F was afforded more time to think about what he was doing 
and the pressure to act quickly lessened. The scammers story also got less 
convincing. Its difficult to understand why Mr F would need to make a test loan 
application for the bank or move loan funds to his cryptocurrency account to secure 
them if he had only made a test loan application. And then he started to receive withdrawal notifications from his cryptocurrency account provider too, which he 
shouldnt have been expecting. Overall, I wouldve expected Mr F, or anyone else to 
have been put on guard and I dont think it was reasonable for him to proceed without 
taking steps to protect himself  such as visiting a Lloyds branch to discuss the 
situation, as he did after he received the letter confirming his new loan account.
People are generally aware that its not safe to hand over account login details and 
security information to anyone, even their bank. Yet Mr F gave the fraudster the login 
details for his Lloyds account and his cryptocurrency account. 
Overall, I think both parties ought to have done more to protect Mr F from financial harm. 
Lloyds has agreed to refund 50% of the payments Mr F made to his cryptocurrency account 
(£6,100) and use this amount to reduce the outstanding loan balance. Its also agreed to 
remove interest from the loan and put an affordable repayment arrangement in place. I think 
this is a fair and reasonable offer, which is in line with my findings on shared responsibility 
for the loss. 
Of course, Mr F can use the money Lloyds has agreed to reimburse for the faster payments 
he made to third-party accounts and the payment to D to reduce the loan balance to zero if 
he would rather not maintain contractual repayments.
Consequential loss and compensation
Mr F has said that the trouble and upset hes experienced in this matter has led to absences 
from work due to a lack of focus, and consequential lost income. But I dont think the lost 
income wouldve been reasonably foreseeable to Lloyds when Mr F was scammed  Im not 
persuaded that it ought to have predicted Mr F would have to take time off work as a direct 
result of the fraud. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Lloyds to compensate him 
for any lost income. 
Im very sorry to hear of the negative impact this matter has had on Mr Fs financial, physical 
and mental health. I appreciate that he must have had a very distressing time. But ultimately, 
his loss, and the trouble and upset hes experienced, was caused by the cruel and callous 
acts of a fraudster. Im satisfied that both parties couldve done more to protect Mr F from 
financial harm. In the circumstances, I think that Lloyds has offered to do enough to address 
its own errors, and I wont be awarding any additional compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should:
refund the fraudulent payment of £47.80 to D.
reimburse the remaining £7,000 loss from the faster payments Mr F made to       
third-party accounts, together with interest at the account rate.
remove interest from the loan.
refund 50% of the payments Mr F made to his cryptocurrency account (£6,100) and 
use this amount to reduce the outstanding loan balance.
allow Mr F to repay the remaining loan balance under an affordable repayment plan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman