DRN-3941560
The complaint
Miss C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss C applied for a credit card with Capital One in April 2022. The credit card account was 
opened with a credit limit of £500 which wasnt ever been increased.
 
Miss C says that Capital One shouldnt have provided her with the credit. She says it didnt 
take account of her financial situation at the time and that it should have refused her credit. 
She says Capital One didnt check it was affordable for her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. They didnt think Capital One had done 
anything wrong in its lending decisions. 
Miss C disagreed. She said that her take-home pay was lower than had been used in Capital 
Ones assessment and that Capital Ones calculations werent representative of the cost of 
living.   Our adjudicator reviewed the complaint again but didnt think what Miss C had said 
made a difference.
As Miss C didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think Capital 
One acted unfairly or lent to Miss C irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Capital One needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount, Miss Cs borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Capital One has provided a copy of the checks it completed when opening Miss Cs account. 
It says these show that it was reasonable to lend to Miss C in the way that it did.
I can see from this list that Capital One saw that Miss C had around £17,500 of debt with 
other lenders and she was managing repayments for those debts well. Records showed that 
Miss C hadnt defaulted on other credit and had no arrears or County Court Judgements.
Her repayments for her loans and other credit came to around £436 a month. Miss C 
declared an income of £22,549 which in 2022 provided a take home amount of around 
£1,600pcm. Miss C says her income declaration was correct but that her take home pay was 
less than this. I have checked this using a government tax calculator and it appears to be 
correct, and Miss C hasnt provided any evidence to the contrary, so I think Capital One 
were entitled to rely on this information about her income
. 
Miss C says that she doesnt think Capital Ones calculations were fair or representative of 
the real cost of living. But given the relatively low level of lending I dont think Capital One 
needed to do a detailed income and expenditure assessment. I think it was enough that they 
knew her income and she was managing her other credit well. If Miss C had utilised her full 
credit facility on the card then sustainable repayments would have been, in my view, around 
£25 a month, which I think was affordable.
 
Given the low amount of lending - £500  I think Capital One made appropriate checks 
which were proportionate to the lending.
 
On the information available to me I dont think Capital One was unfair in the way it treated 
Miss C. I dont think Miss C lost out as a result of anything Capital One did wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint. It follows that 
Capital One (Europe) plc, does not have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman