DRN-3233407
The complaint
Ms S, through her representative, complains that S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at 
Home (LAH) lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Ms S was approved for 23 loans between 25 April 2007 and 30 November 2016. 
After Ms S had complained, LAH issued its final response letter (FRL) in which it set out a 
table of all the loans and I do not repeat those details here as Ms S and LAH have them.
LAH determined that loans 1 to 10 (April 2007 to June 2014) were Time Barred and it need 
not investigate them. It did look into loans 11 to 23 and upheld them all. It said: we could 
have probed further into your clients financial situation prior to issuing loans 11-23.
Ms S referred her complaint to this Service and our adjudicator considered it. Ms S has 
described her circumstances as: 
I was a single parent with 2 children 1 was disabled I sometimes fell into arrears with 
loan due to childs disability. They used my vunerability [sic] of being a single parent 
along with my disabled child as a way too [sic] keep me borrowing more and more 
money
Of the ones LAH considered Time Barred, our adjudicator applied the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) rules which apply and thought that we could look at them all. LAH did not 
have any further information about those loans to send to us. And LAH disagreed with the 
adjudicators view on jurisdiction.
Our adjudicator looked at the merits of the complaint as well and thought that LAH should 
put things right for Ms S on loans 3 to 23 which means from 22 December 2010 onwards. 
LAH has written back about the jurisdiction element and a second view was issued by our 
adjudicator to confirm the first, as well as informing LAH that the case would be passed to an 
ombudsman for both jurisdiction and merits to be considered. 
It was passed to me to decide.  
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Ms S and LAH to 
decide whether we can look at all loans being complained about. Having done so, I have 
reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator  that I have the power to consider all the 
loans being complained about. Ill explain why. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three 
years after the complainant (in this case, Ms S) knew, or should really have known they had 
reason to complain. The exact wording is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can 
be found online in the FCAs Handbook. 
Its clear loans 1 to 10 were complained about more than six years after they were taken as 
Ms S letter to LAH was September 2020. However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me 
Ms S was aware or ought to have been aware more than three years before she raised this 
complaint, that she had reason to complain. LAH has said that when Ms S experienced 
repayment problems and struggled to repay the lending this shouldve led her to realise she 
had reason to complain. But I dont think this is enough in this case to demonstrate that.
I say this because whilst experiencing repayment problems and struggling to repay the 
lending would no doubt have led Ms S to realise there was a problem (in terms of the 
financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would have (or ought to have), in itself, made them 
aware that these problems were caused by LAH doing something wrong when it agreed the 
loans. LAH has had decisions about this aspect before. 
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Ms S was or should have been aware 
earlier of her cause to complain more than three years before she did complain. 
LAH has cited other cases but as well as the overall approach by this Service that all cases 
being considered individually, I have reviewed those two cases to which LAH have referred 
me. One has not received an ombudsmans decision and as such is not definitive. And the 
other has had a second view issued which is in line with our general approach to jurisdiction 
matters. And its the approach I take when I consider jurisdiction issues.
So, like our adjudicator, I think loans 1 to 10 were raised within the time limits I need to apply 
and that I do have the power to consider them. Ill now go on and consider whether I think all 
the loans complained about were lent responsibly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.  LAH has received 
many decisions from this Service about irresponsible lending and so my summary here is 
very brief. 
I note that some loans were approved by LAH when the relevant guidance for lenders was 
before the FCA was the regulator. Im familiar with the Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible 
Lending Guide (ILG) issued in March 2010. Under the guidance given by the OFT, 
businesses should make sure they have made reasonable enquires to ensure they have lent 
responsibly. The OFT ILG was the foundation of the rules going forward in the FCA 
Consumer Credit Source book (CONC) and often sections of the ILG were cited in those 
rules. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to makeany loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
LAH was required to establish whether Ms S could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss S complaint. 
As LAH has accepted that it needs to put things right for Ms S in relation to Loans 11 to 23 
then I do not need to review them. Having read that FRL I can see that the calculations of 
the redress for loans 11 to 23 did not follow our own approach and so this decision sets out 
how LAH is to put things right for Ms S in relation to loans 11 to 23  not the FRL. 
Our adjudicator did not consider that Loans 1 and 2 were ones LAH should put things right. 
Ms S has not disagreed with that. So, I consider those resolved and I have not reviewed 
loans 1 and 2 either. But they are relevant when looking at the lending relationship as a 
whole particularly as in these circumstances, Ms S took a very long time to repay them. 
Loans 3 to 10
LAH has no information about loans 3 to 10 other than the basic details it provided in its 
FRL. Each of these loans were for £125 except for loans 9 and 10 which were for £100. It 
has no information about the application forms or the income and expenditure figures it may 
have gathered at the time the loans were approved.
Ms S representative has submitted on her behalf a Claim Audit Form which gives some 
figures, but as her loans spanned such a long period it has not been made clear as to which 
years these figures relate. Added to which there is nothing to verify them. Ms S has said in 
that Claim Audit Form several times that she cannot remember details about the loans. In 
my view this evidence is unsatisfactory and I attach little weight to it. 
The explanation surrounding Ms S circumstances (set out in the what happened section of 
this decision) I have thought about and I do maintain that Ms S was able to remember such 
personal details for that period.  
Our adjudicator has demonstrated that in his view, the pattern of lending showed that the 
loans taken after loan 3 were unsustainable. Ms S took out loan 1 on 25 April 2007 with an initial term of 41 weeks. She took 191 weeks 
to repay this loan, over four times the amount of time that was originally agreed. Ms S took 
loan 2 on 19 September 2007 with an initial term of 41 weeks. She took 170 weeks to repay, 
around four times the amount of time that was originally agreed. By the time she took out 
loan 3 on 22 December 2010, Ms S had been in continuous debt for over three years and 
had taken quadruple the amount of time agreed to repay loans 1 and 2. Additionally, loan 3 
was taken out the same day loans 1 and 2 were repaid.
I certainly think that LAH ought to have been alerted to the arrears Ms S had been in for 
loans 1 and 2 over many years and so I do think that full and extensive financial reviews 
ought to have been carried out before approving loan 3. I dont think that a pattern of lending 
can have developed with two loans. If any pattern had developed by December 2010 it was 
that Ms S was persistently unable to meet her debts. 
I have already indicated that I do not think that the financial information sent to us by Ms S 
for the period of loans 3 to 10 is sufficient for me to rely on it. And so, I have not been able to 
see what it is that LAH may have seen had it carried out a full financial review in 
December 2010 before approving loan 3. And if I were to ask Ms S for that financial 
information, it would be difficult to obtain records for that period as it spanned 2010 to 2014. 
For instance, a credit file report would not go back that far. And LAH has explained that it 
cannot provide details of those loans due to them being older loans. So, in fairness to both 
parties, their submissions in relation to financial details for those earlier loans have parity: 
neither can, or is likely able to, obtain such detailed evidence after all these years.  
However, I have used what I have available and that includes LAHs own explanation which 
is I set it out here that Ms S was in receipt of arrears letters as early as 2009, and due to 
sporadic problems with payments received arrears letters at different times in 2010, 2011 
and 2012. Additionally she received a Pre- Default letter in Mar 2014.
So, it seems to me that Ms S was permanently in debt to LAH and often behind in her 
payments to such an extent that it was on the verge of issuing a default in relation to its own 
customer. Despite this LAH continued to lend. And so, my view is that LAH already knew 
she was in financial trouble and that any full financial review likely would have revealed this 
in more detail. 
In the circumstances I have decided to uphold her complaint in relation to Loans 3 to 23. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms S from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms S in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
LAH shouldnt have given Ms S loans 3 to 23.
A) LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms S towards interest, fees 
and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, 
but not including anything LAH have already refunded.
B) LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms S which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LAH may  if LAH chooses to  use the total of A plus B to repay any principal which 
LAH have written-off.
D) LAH should pay any remaining refund to Ms S. If there is no refund left and still a balance 
outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for LAH to pursue this 
further.
E) As loans 3 to 10 likely do not appear on any current personal credit file for Ms S I make no 
direction in relation to the amendment of the credit file for those loans. The overall pattern 
of Ms S borrowing for loans 11 to 23 means any information recorded about them is 
adverse, so for those loans which still appear on her credit file, I direct that LAH should 
remove these loans entirely from Ms Ss credit file. If LAH have sold any of the loans LAH 
should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to deduct tax from this interest. LAH should give 
Ms S a certificate showing how much tax LAH have deducted if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms S complaint in part and I direct that S.D. Taylor, trading 
as Loans at Home, does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman