DRN-3073673
The complaint
Mr W complains that National Savings and Investments (NS & I) didnt send him the bonds 
that he purchased for his son N in 1992 and he has lost out on the investment he made.  
What happened
In 1992 Mr W purchased two £500 bonds at his local post office, one for each of his children. 
He paid for them by cheque and received two receipts for them. This complaint only relates 
to the bond in respect of one of his sons N. I understand that Mr W has made a separate 
complaint about the bond for his son B. 
Mr W says that he didnt ever receive the bond and assumed that the receipt for the deposit 
he made would be sufficient proof of the bond. 
Mr W subsequently forgot about the bond, until he recently found the deposit receipt. Mr W 
wrote to NS & I in December 2020 about how to claim the bonds. NS & I responded to say 
that they had no record of the bonds. 
The post office where the bonds were purchased is now closed. 
Mr W complained to NS & I. They provided a final response in May 2021. They said that they 
have no open accounts in Mr Ws sons name, and that any funds they held would have 
been repaid when the investment was closed. They do not hold customers details for more 
than 7 years after an investment is closed to comply with records management legislation 
including the Data Protection Act. They did offer £50 compensation for customer service 
issues.   
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws case. She thought that NS & I had acted in a fair 
and reasonable manner.  
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision 
which is why it has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I have thought about whether NS&I have acted fairly and reasonably in this case, and I have 
looked at all the evidence provided to me including the testimony of Mr W, provided by his 
son N. 
Mr W has provided me with a receipt from the local post office for Childrens Bonus Bonds 
dated 1 July 1992. On the receipt it confirms that a cheque deposit was made for £500 at the 
post office and it bears the official post office stamp. At the bottom of the receipt it says 
Please keep this receipt until the investment certificate has been received by the 
Responsible Person. This will normally be sent within 28 days. If you need to write to us in 
the meantime please quote the date an office at which the purchase was made (see date 
stamp) and the amount of the purchase.
This receipt proves that a cheque was deposited with the post office with the intention of 
opening a bond. However, it doesnt prove that a bond was ever opened. As far as Mr W is 
aware, he didnt ever receive the investment certificate which would have been issued when 
the bond was opened, and so its possible the bond was never opened. 
The information available at NS & I online about Childrens Bonus Bonds says that they are 
five-year bonds which are tax free and become the responsibility of the named child when 
they reach the age of 16. At the end of the five-year term, it can be renewed unless the 
investor indicates otherwise, and NS & I will write to the investor at the end of each five year 
term to ask whether they wish to reinvest.
Mr W and his son have not received any statements or other correspondence from NS & I 
since the date the bond was applied for in 1992.  
N S & I have checked their records, and they cant find any trace of Mr W or his son N as 
investors. This suggests that either the investment was never opened, or it has at some 
point been closed. NS& I dont keep records of investors more than 7 years after account 
closure, so if the account was closed, it will have been some time ago. 
I have asked Mr W whether he can provide us with any evidence from his bank that the 
cheque was ever cashed, but unfortunately, the bank are unable to assist as they dont have 
records back to 1992.  
As there is no evidence that the cheque was ever cashed, and we similarly have no 
evidence to show that the investment was ever opened, or closed, I cant fairly say that NS & 
I have done anything wrong there. They have checked all the available recorded information 
and have confirmed that they hold no account for Mr W or his son and have no record of 
having done so in the last 7 years.  Without any evidence I am unable to fairly determine 
what has happened in this case, and so I am unable to uphold this complaint. 
In view of that I will not be asking NS&I to do anything further. 
I note that NS & I have already paid Mr W £50 for the customer service-related issues.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about NS 
& I.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 Joanne Ward
Ombudsman