DRN-4166938
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made errors which caused delays when he tried 
to switch products. He says interest rates increased during the delay and asks that Barclays 
applies a lower interest rate to his mortgage. 
What happened
Mr A has a mortgage with Barclays. He tried to choose a new product online in June 2022 
but was unable to do so. Barclays sent a link with available rates to Mr A. However, when he 
chose a rate he received a message asking him to call Barclays. This happened twice.
Mr A met with a mortgage adviser and took out a new fixed interest rate product. He says by 
this time, rates had increased.
Barclays said the link it sent included rates for offset mortgages, which Mr A couldnt take 
out without advice. It said it shouldnt have included offset products in the link it sent to Mr A 
and offered £150 compensation.
Our investigator said this was fair. She said Mr A chose an offset product which he couldnt 
take out without advice. He chose to wait for an appointment with a mortgage adviser 
instead of choosing another rate. Our investigator said lenders can change their range of 
interest rate products at any time. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said it wasnt in dispute that Barclays made an error when it sent him a 
link with both fixed rate and offset products. He said he didnt know the offset rates werent 
available to him until he spoke to the mortgage adviser. Mr A said if Barclays had only sent 
fixed rate products hed have chosen the most favourable rate available at that time. He said 
the right outcome is for Barclays to apply this rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A first tried to choose a new mortgage product on 10 June 2022. He had problems and 
Barclays sent him a link which would allow him to choose a product. 
Mr A called Barclays again on 14 June 2022 as he was still unable to take out a product 
online. Ive listened to a recording of this call. Mr A told Barclays hed tried to apply for an 
offset product. Barclays said he wasnt able to take out an offset product online.
Barclays said it would send a new link. It said Mr A would be able to apply for a non-offset 
product online. It said even if the link contained offset products Mr A would not be able to 
take out an offset product without meeting with a mortgage adviser. 
Mr A asked to meet with a mortgage adviser. Barclays booked on appointment on 21 June 
2022. After taking advice, Mr A decided against switching to an offset mortgage. He took out 
a non-offset five-year fixed interest rate product. Barclays says this product was available on 
10 June 2022 and its rates didnt change between then and Mr A choosing the product. 
Barclays apologised for sending a link to Mr A which included offset products, as Mr A 
couldnt switch to an offset product without first meeting with a mortgage adviser. It offered 
£150 compensation for the inconvenience this caused. I think that was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr A said if Barclays had only sent information about products that were available to him 
hed have chosen one of these products. He says hed now have a better rate and wouldnt 
have wasted time speaking to a mortgage adviser.
Mr A says he recalls rates being lower when he first tried to take out a new product, but cant 
provide evidence to support this. Barclays says its rates didnt change between 10 and 21 
June 2022. It sent rate sheets and I can see that the same fixed rate products were available 
on 9 June 2022 and 24 June 2022. So, despite any confusion caused by the link containing 
offset products, Mr A ultimately took out a product from the same range available to him on 
10 June 2022. 
Barclays told Mr A he could apply online for a non-offset product. It was Mr As choice to 
meet with a mortgage adviser to discuss taking out an offset product. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require Barclays to pay compensation for his time spent 
doing this.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £150 to Mr A, as it offered to do 
(unless of course its already done so). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman