DRN-4164649
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with how Sainsburys Bank Plc are handling the interest rate on his Cash 
Individual Savings Account (ISA). 
What happened
I issued my provisional findings about this matter to both parties on 16 May 2023. The 
background to this complaint and my provisional findings are set out below and form part of 
this final decision.  
In May 2016 Mr L took out a telephone/postal Cash ISA.
In 2017 Mr L raised a complaint with Sainsburys about his Cash ISA. He was mainly
unhappy that Sainsburys did not automatically increase the interest rate on his account to
match the interest rates they advertised for new customers. To resolve things Sainsburys
changed Mr Ls Cash ISA interest rate to the new customer interest rate.
On 16 October 2017 Sainsburys wrote to Mr L to confirm this. The letter said, I have
updated your account and changed your interest rate to 1.06% gross AER*. So youll earn
interest at this rate from now onAs this is a variable rate we can change interest rates at
any time. If we reduce the rate, we will write to you 14 days beforehand to let you know.
A final response letter was also issued to Mr L on 15 November 2017. This apologised for
not backdating interest as theyd promised on a call. And they offered Mr L £100 for poor
customer service hed received from their agent. The letter acknowledged that Mr L did not
believe Sainsburys were offering a genuinely variable Cash ISA (because they did not
increase the interest rate in line with the rates they advertised for new customers). And it
explained that new customers did not always receive higher interest rates than existing
customers. Sainsburys pointed out that Mr Ls interest rate had not reduced when the
interest rate for new customers had been lowered. Sainsburys conclusion was that there
had been no bank error in terms of Mr Ls interest rate, nor could they say that the Cash ISA
interest rate was capped at 1.06% as Mr L had been suggesting as part of his complaint.
Mr L has said that he didnt need to revisit anything with his account for the following few
years as interest rates remained generally low and it was his understanding the interest rate
would mirror any new rates, but would not exceed 1.06%. And he has said this is what he
had understood from Sainsburys letter dated 16 October 2017.
Mr L says he called Sainsburys on 17 October 2022 and learned that the interest rate on his
Cash ISA was 0.35% instead of 1.06%. Given Sainsburys interest rate was 1.50% at the
time he said his interest rate shouldve been increased to 1.06%. Mr L complained to
Sainsburys that he didnt think it was fair his Cash ISA interest rate had not been adjusted to
1.06% and asked Sainsburys for redress based on the difference in his existing interest rate
history and 1.06%.
On 10 October 2022 Sainsburys issued Mr L with a final response letter for his complaint.
They acknowledged Mr Ls concerns that they were not automatically increasing the interest
rate when new accounts were being offered with higher interest rates. Sainsburys explained
it was not their policy to advise existing customers of interest rates being offered to attract
new customers. But Sainsburys confirmed their interest rates would be visible on their
website for customers to be able to make informed decisions about which account is best for
them.
Sainsburys confirmed they had increased Mr Ls account to the latest interest rate being
offered of 1.50% - effective from the date Mr L requested his interest rate be increased.
Sainsburys also offered (and then later paid) £50 to Mr L as a gesture of goodwill. (I note
that Mr Ls interest rate has increased again since then).
Unhappy with Sainsburys response, Mr L referred the matter to our service. Our Investigator
reviewed the case and concluded they would not uphold Mr Ls complaint. They could not
find anything in the terms and conditions of Mr Ls account to support that the interest rate
would be automatically increased to match interest rates for new customers, and noted that
the interest rates for new customers were available to existing customers. The Investigator
didnt think Sainsburys had acted unfairly, and they didnt think the 16 October 2017 letter
was misleading as Mr L was suggesting.
Mr L didnt accept the Investigators findings. He confirmed there was a call in October 2017
that he had made to check the interest rate, and this prompted Sainsburys to increase his
rate at that time. Mr L says he then didnt do anything further with the account as Sainsburys
interest rates remained generally low. Mr L said his understanding at that point was the
interest rate on his account could go down and up, but would not go above 1.06% - although
he understood this was not a fixed interest rate. Mr L said it was unfair of Sainsburys not to
increase the interest rates for everyone, and commented that people less competent with
accessing things online would be disadvantaged by not being able to check the interest rates
there.
The Investigator obtained some further information from Sainsburys about what happened
in 2017. Due to the time passed, Sainsburys were unable to provide a copy of the call
recording in October 2017. But they were able to provide their internal notes from around
that time, including their response to Mr Ls complaint in 2017. Sainsburys were also able to
provide copies of letters sent to Mr L on 28 January 2020, 29 January 2020, 30 January
2020, 12 May 2020 and 28 August 2020 with each providing notification that the interest rate
on Mr Ls Cash ISA was being reduced. They also provided a copy of a letter sent to Mr L on
4 October 2022 that confirmed his interest rate had been increased.
After reviewing the additional information, the Investigator concluded Mr L would have been
aware that the interest rate on his Cash ISA would not automatically increase, and he would
need to contact Sainsburys to take advantage of interest rates being offered to new
customers. The Investigator also concluded, based on the available evidence, that Mr L had
not been told his account had a capped interest rate.
Mr L continued to disagree with the Investigators findings as he believed call recordings
would have supported his recollections from October 2017. Mr L said that Sainsburys
should notify customers about interest rate increases if it was expected that customers
needed to contact Sainsburys themselves to benefit from them. Mr L felt that Sainsburys
practice was unfair.
As the matter could not be resolved, it has been passed to me to decide. In beginning my
considerations it became apparent that some of Mr Ls complaint points covered similar
issues to his earlier complaint raised with Sainsburys in 2017. As the rules this service
follows include considering whether a complaint has been brought in time, and Mr L did not
refer his 2017 complaint to this service within the deadline of six months set out in that letter,Sainsburys were approached for their consent to consider matters from the earlier
complaint. Sainsburys did not give their consent and said that the only new issue that could
be considered related to Mr Ls concerns that it had not been made clear to him that his
interest rate had decreased over the last two years.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
When Mr L brought his complaint to this service he said he was unhappy because while he
understood the interest rate on his Cash ISA would go up and down, he had understood it
would go up to 1.06% if the interest rates were increased, but not beyond this. And because
interest rates had barely exceeded this in the last few years, hed not paid much attention to
this until in October 2022 when he learned he was getting only 0.35% - which he didnt think
was right.
Some of the things Mr L has raised now are matters that were dealt with by Sainsburys in
their earlier complaint, and so I cannot look at them again.
In the final response letter dated 15 November 2017 Sainsburys answered Mr Ls complaint
that his interest rate would not be increased in line with the rates offered for new customers.
And they let him know at this time that his interest rate was not capped  which is what hed
understood from the earlier 16 October 2017 letter. The 15 November 2017 letter required
that Mr L refer that complaint to our service within six months of the date of that letter. And
the rules our service follow  which can be found in the regulators handbook of rules and
guidance  explain our service cannot look at a complaint which is brought too late unless
there are exceptional circumstances.
Mr L did not bring his complaint to this service until 15 November 2022 which is more than
six months since the date of the 15 November 2017 letter. So matters considered under this
complaint were not brought to this service in time. And I have not seen anything to suggest
that exceptional circumstances would apply in this case to have prevented Mr L from
contacting our service within those six months.
Given some of the things Mr L has raised now with our service are linked with what was
complained about in 2017 Mr L should note that I am unable to consider what he was told in
the letter dated 16 October 2017, or his concerns about increasing the interest rate in line
with the rate for new customers at that time. That said, I think its fair to broadly consider
what has happened to Mr Ls interest rate since 2017 and what he was told about it during
this time, to ensure the interest rate has been fairly applied to his account since then.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr L has also raised concerns about the fairness of Sainsburys practice, and it
may help Mr L to note that the role of this service is to look at each individual complaint, and
so it is not for this service to fine or punish a business or interfere with their processes 
those are considerations for the regulator.
From what Mr L has told us, he was very surprised to learn in October 2022 that the interest
rate for his Cash ISA was 0.35% at the time.
Sainsburys have provided copies of letters (which Ive mentioned above) that were sent to
Mr L confirming the interest rate on his Cash ISA was going to be reduced. Mr L says he
never received any such letters. The address on the letters from January 2020 through to
August 2020 were sent to Address 1. And the letter sent on 4 October 2022 was sent to
Address 2. I can only assume these were correctly addressed, as I think its fair to say that itwould be Mr Ls responsibility to let Sainsburys know if he had moved home  particularly as
he had chosen to take out a telephone/ postal account. Based on the information available to 
me, I think its more likely than not that Sainsburys sent the letters to Mr L. And I think it
would be unreasonable to hold Sainsburys at fault for any issues with the postal service.
These letters show that the interest rate on Mr Ls account reduced in February 2020 from
1.39% to 1.21%; it further reduced in June 2020 from 1.21% to 0.80% and then in
September 2020 was reduced from 0.80% to 0.35% until Mr L called Sainsburys in October
2022. The letters are dated in advance of the interest rate changing.
Mr L accepts that the account is a variable account, and this means the interest rate can go
up and down. And the terms and conditions of the account support this. The letters setting
out the interest rate reductions, and later the interest rate increase, also explain the interest
rate can change at any time as it is a variable account, but that Mr L would be contacted
beforehand. The letters also set out that details of Sainsburys accounts and interest rates
were available online and that the accounts are available to existing customers as well as
new customers.
I note Mr L has said it is not easy for everyone to use and search for information online if
they are less confident using technology, but customers were also able to call or write to
Sainsburys and Im aware that Mr L has called Sainsburys on occasions when hes wanted
to know about his account. Ive also not seen anything to suggest that Sainsburys were
under any obligation to highlight particular new accounts or interest rates to customers.
While I understand Mr L may not be happy with my findings, Im unable to say that in the
circumstances of this case Sainsburys have not fairly applied the terms and conditions of Mr
Ls account for the time in question. I note Sainsburys offered Mr L £50 to try and resolve
the matter, and it is my understanding Sainsburys have changed Mr Ls Cash ISA account
to the new Cash ISA interest rates when hes asked, which I think is fair in the
circumstances. Overall, I therefore dont think Sainsburys have done anything wrong here.
My provisional decision
For the reasons above, my provisional decision is that I can only look at the parts of Mr Ls
complaint that were not previously considered by Sainsburys in 2017, and overall based on
what Ive seen so far I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint in terms of how the interest has been
applied to his account since then.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr L replied to my provisional findings. Mr L understood that the scope of my considerations 
is limited to how his account has been handled, and not Sainsburys wider practices. But Mr 
L did express his concern that other banks practices do not profit from their customers as 
they apply interest rates fairly across all their customers with the same product. And those 
that do separate higher rates for new customers, have in place the means for customers to 
identify the different interest rates available, and which rates apply to them more easily. 
Mr L did also comment on the suggestion that he was unaware or unhappy that his interest 
rate was reduced in 2020. However, Mr L clarified that he fully understood his interest rate 
was variable so it could reduce, and that communications wouldve been sent from 
Sainsburys about this. Mr Ls greater concern is with Sainsburys communications when 
interest rates are increasing. 
Sainsburys responded to my provisional findings and said they had nothing further to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr L accepted the scope of my considerations Ive not commented on those events that 
Ive explained are out of my jurisdiction. 
Ive considered Mr Ls additional comments in reply to my provisional findings and I 
understand the frustrations he has expressed in relation to this account. If Mr L wishes he 
can refer any concerns about Sainsburys wider practices to the financial regulator, who 
although will not look at individual cases will take note of any such submissions. 
I also acknowledge Mr Ls clarification around his understanding that the interest rate could 
be reduced. 
Overall, Ive not seen any further submissions that would alter the conclusions as set out in 
my provisional findings above. So based on the available submissions, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Sainsburys have unfairly handled Mr Ls Cash ISA account for the 
period of time in question. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman