DRN-2441978
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) has refused to show 
her the deed of assignment for each account it is pursuing her for. 
While Mrs E is complaining about various accounts  this decision is only regarding the  
accounts in her sole name, all other accounts are being considered under a separate case 
reference.
What happened
The circumstances are well known to both parties and so I wont lay them out again in great 
detail but will summarise the main issues. 
Cabot has been pursuing Mrs E for debts it says she owes on various accounts, three of 
which are in her sole name:
Account 1  credit card account with a balance owing of £5,046.24
Account 2  Mail order account with a balance owing of £757.79
Account 3  Mail order account with no outstanding balance.
Mrs E was provided with a notice of assignment (NOA) for all of the accounts when Cabot 
purchased them from the original creditors. She has previously engaged with it about these 
accounts and has had payment plans in place for them at times. 
Mrs E has complained to Cabot about its actions in trying to make arrangements to collect 
payment for these accounts.
Mrs E has asked Cabot to provide her with a copy of the individual Deed of Assignment 
(DOA) for each of the debts proving she owes the money to it. She says if it does this, she 
will happily pay the debts. She has also said that if it doesnt then it should stop contacting 
her and close the accounts removing any trace of them from her credit file, and it should 
compensate her.
In response to Mrs E Cabot said:
The Deed of Assignments are confidential documents between us and the original 
creditors. The deed of Assignments do not contain any personal details relating to 
you and are not available for disclosure.
Mrs E then issued a cease and desist letter to Cabot, its response to this said it believed her 
to be responsible for the debts. It placed her accounts on hold for 21 days to allow her to 
contact its sensitive support team and arrange a repayment plan. Mrs E didnt do this but 
instead brought her complaint to this service.
The investigator didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint, in summary they said:
Mrs E had engaged with Cabot on all three of the accounts mentioned above by 
agreeing payment plans and making payments on them. As such it was reasonable 
to say Mrs E was aware of the debts and that they were payable and so it wasnt fair 
to ask Cabot to write them off. 
The deed of assignment wasnt something they could ask Cabot to provide to Mrs E, 
but felt that Cabot had given sufficient evidence to show Mrs E is responsible for the 
debts.
Mrs E didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to let Mrs E know that I have reached the same outcome as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons, Ill explain. 
When Cabot purchased the accounts from the original credit providers there was a 
requirement for Mrs E to be informed, and to be provided with a NOA. 
Although Mrs E has said she would like to see the DOA before agreeing to making any more 
payments, I can't say that it is unreasonable of Cabot not to give her a copy. There is no 
requirement for it to do so and it has explained the DOA contains sensitive information 
between it and the creditor. 
It is not for me to instruct Cabot to provide a copy to Mrs E, but to decide if it has done 
anything wrong in contacting her to request she set up a repayment plan for the accounts.
Account 1  credit card account 
Cabot has told us this account was opened in November 2003 and defaulted in July 2011. 
Cabot purchased the account from the original creditor in November 2014. At that time there 
was an outstanding balance of £5,839.39. Cabot has provided a copy of the NOA that was 
sent to Mrs P in December 2014.
Mrs E has been in contact with Cabot regarding this account and made monthly 
contributions of £20 between December 2016 and May 2019, reducing the balance to 
£5,046.24 as it stands today. 
Based on the above Im satisfied that Mrs E is aware of and responsible for this account and 
Im satisfied she was aware that Cabot had purchased it from the original creditor. And so, it 
follows Cabot is entitled to contact her to set up a repayment plan for it.
Account 2  Mail order account 
Cabot has told us this account was opened in May 2006 and defaulted in February 2011. 
Cabot purchased the account from the original creditor in December 2016, it had an 
outstanding balance of £1,027.79 at the time. Mrs E was sent a NOA in January 2017, I 
have seen a copy of this so Im satisfied it was sent.
Mrs E made payments to Cabot towards this account between March 2017 and April 2019, 
reducing the balance to £757.79.Its apparent from Mrs Es engagement with Cabot regarding this account, she is aware of 
the account itself and of her own responsibility to pay it. And Im satisfied that she was 
notified of the sale of it to Cabot.  As such, Cabot is entitled to contact her to arrange a 
repayment plan.
Account 3  Mail order  Zero balance
Cabot has confirmed this account was opened in September 2007 and defaulted in October 
2011. Cabot purchased the account from the original creditor in March 2016, at the time the 
balance was £237.24, it has provided a copy of the NOA that was sent to Mrs E in May 
2016.
Mrs E had various conversations with Cabot about this debt throughout 2016 to discuss 
repayment plans and placing the debt on hold. In November 2017 Mrs E cleared the balance 
in full.
As with the accounts above, Mrs Es level of engagement with Cabot about this account 
satisfies me that she was aware of the account and her responsibility to pay it. Having seen 
a copy of the NOA, Im also satisfied that she was aware of the sale of it to Cabot and that 
Cabot was entitled to ask her to repay it. Cabot has not contacted her regarding payment of 
this account since the balance was cleared. 
I understand that it has been distressing for Mrs E to be contacted by Cabot about these 
accounts. And while I have sympathy for the situation, she has found herself in I cant agree 
that the level of contact Cabot has had with her regarding these account amounts to 
harassment. It had a legitimate reason for the contact and from what Ive seen the contact 
wasnt excessive and when she has engaged with Cabot, it has been sympathetic to her 
situation and has tried to find a way to move forward with her.
As such I cant fairly say Cabot has done anything wrong here and so I wont be asking it to 
write off Mrs Es debts or to stop contacting her regarding them.
I know Mrs E will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Cabot  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman