DRN-3429812
The complaint
Mr A complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP) has declined a claim and avoided his motor 
warranty insurance policy after his vehicle suffered a catastrophic engine failure. 
What happened
Mr As vehicle suffered a catastrophic engine failure. It was recovered to a dealership and 
the failure was diagnosed. However, following the diagnosis, Mr A was advised that there 
were irregularities in the electronic data retrieved from the vehicle. The dealership said that 
the data showed changes had been made to the engine management and gearbox control 
unit software after a specific date. AWP said this meant the vehicle was outside the scope of 
the cover the motor warranty insurance provided, so it declined the claim, avoided the policy 
and refunded Mr As premium. 
Mr A says hed owned the vehicle for 18 months, and there were no alterations or 
manipulations made to the vehicles engine software whilst in his care. But AWP didnt agree 
and refused to pay the claim. 
So, Mr A got the vehicle repaired himself for approximately £14,000 and he submitted a 
complaint to this service. An investigator reviewed the complaint and said that based on the 
evidence that had been made available to us that AWP should reinstate policy and 
reconsider the claim.
As there was no response from AWP the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
I wrote to AWP. I explained that in the absence of any supporting data I would be asking 
AWP to reinstate the policy and reconsider the claim as per the view issued by our 
investigator. AWP replied and said it had supporting data, but the data was sensitive to the 
manufacturer. So, AWP set up a call between myself and the manufacturer to discuss what it 
had found when it retrieved the data from Mr As engine.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 April 2022. That provisional decision 
is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is whether AWP has acted fairly and reasonably by declining the 
claim and avoiding the policy.
The policy says it will cover the sudden and unexpected failure of a component which is 
covered. The engine is covered under the named component section of the policy. So, Mr A 
was entitled to submit a claim after his engine suffered a sudden catastrophic failure. 
However, the policy also says it will not cover an insured vehicle that has been subject to 
alterations, has had experimental equipment fitted or has in any way been modified from the 
manufacturers approved specification. 
AWP says Mr As engine software has been manipulated and that this manipulation has 
happened outside of the manufacturers network. AWP says the most recent change in 
software happened between October 2019 and the date of the engine failure diagnosis.
Mr A says he owned the vehicle in October 2019 and there was no manipulation of the 
engine at that time. He says nothing was done in that period to alter the car and there is no 
evidential or quantitative proof to counteract this assertion. Mr A says once AWP saw the bill 
for repair it just looked for a way to decline the claim.
When the investigator issued the view on this complaint, AWP hadnt supplied any data 
analysis to support its decline. AWP said the manufacturer had run the data and this had 
confirmed there were irregularities within the engine software. But AWP said this data was 
commercially sensitive and it couldnt be shared. Mr A had already tried to get the data. He 
had written to both the manufacturer and AWP and both parties had referred Mr A back to 
each other. But neither party had provided any supporting evidence of software 
manipulation.
As the supporting evidence was deemed commercially sensitive AWP set up a call between 
the manufacturer and myself only in order to explain the data. As this is commercially 
sensitive information, I cant share it with Mr A. But Ive considered what the manufacturer 
showed me, and I accept it as a reasonable explanation. During the call the manufacturer 
shared on screen the Fasta data diagnostic analysis taken from Mr As vehicle. I confirmed 
that the make, model, mileage, registration and VIN were that of Mr As vehicle. The 
manufacturer explained that it had the ability to verify if modifications had been made to a 
specific vehicles software outside of the standard software. And in this specific case, the 
manufacturer was able to show me that the software on Mr As engine had been altered 
twice. The manufacturer advises that every log on, update or brief test is recorded in the 
software. And they were able to show me that changes from outside the manufacturers 
network had been made to this software at some point between October 2016 up to June 
2019. And another change was made after 8 October 2019 up to the date the diagnostic was 
carried out. 
To explain further the CAL-ID (calibration ID) and the CVN (calibration verification number). 
are not of the standard expected. And during the call I had with the manufacturer I was 
shown the calibration numbers and I can confirm they were not the same as the calibration 
numbers listed at date of manufacture. The manufacturer was able to show me that there 
were changes to the original calibration numbers recorded on or before June 2019 and again 
after 8 October 2019 and before date of diagnosis. 
The manufacturer has also confirmed that the vehicle had been presented with software not 
designed for the i-frame standard of the vehicle and that multiple adaptions of both engine 
and gearbox software had been completed on the vehicle. This means the changes were 
made outside of the manufacturers network. Engine software modifications are known to 
increase the pressure on a vehicles components, and that is why AWP excludes any 
modifications outside of the manufacturers specifications. And I think this is fair and 
reasonable. AWP doesnt want to provide cover for parts that are at a higher risk of failing. 
And its set this out clearly in its policy terms and conditions. So, AWP declined the claim and 
put Mr A back in the position he was in before he took out the cover. Im satisfied with this, 
and I dont plan to interfere with AWPs decision.   From the evidence Ive seen the data presented on this vehicle shows the software is not at 
the standard expected. This means the vehicle is outside the scope of cover as per the 
policy terms and conditions. As such the vehicle would never have been on cover so Im 
satisfied with what AWP has done by declining the claim, avoiding the policy and refunding 
the premium and Im not going to interfere with its decision. Because of this Im not planning 
on upholding this complaint and I wont be asking AWP to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision on 13 April 2022 as set out above. AWP hasnt replied. But Mr 
A has. 
Mr A says he is extremely disappointed with the provisional decision. He says that no 
change was made to the vehicle to suggest there was increased wear or pressure on the 
drivetrain. Mr A says AWP is simply spinning an unrelated instance on the vehicle to make it 
appear there were modifications, and that it is using any possible excuse not to pay the 
claim. Mr A acknowledges that the ombudsman has been shown specific software data. And 
hes expressed disappointment that this data cant be shared.
I acknowledge Mr As disappointment. It is frustrating when sensitive data cant be shared. 
But every manufacturer has its own sensitive data and this specific manufacturer has 
explained the disadvantages of, and risks it runs, if either consumers or other manufacturers 
had access to the software or technology it uses in its vehicles. So, I think its quite fair that 
the manufacturer isnt prepared share the data it found when it ran the diagnostics on Mr As 
engine.
However, I can confirm again that the manufacturer did show me what the diagnostics had 
found. And I can confirm the diagnostics showed Mr As engine had been altered twice and 
that the alterations were made outside of the manufacturers network. I was shown the 
calibration numbers and I can confirm they are not the same as the calibration numbers 
listed at date of manufacture. The manufacturer was able to show me that there were 
changes to the original calibration numbers recorded on or before June 2019 and again after 
8 October 2019 and before date of diagnosis. As such I think its more likely than not 
changes were made to the engine software on this vehicle as stated. So, AWP declined the 
claim and put Mr A back in the position he was in before he took out the cover. Im satisfied 
with this, and I dont plan to interfere with AWPs decision.    
I understand Mr As strength of feeling on this case. And I understand the impact of my 
decision on him financially. But based on the evidence Ive been shown and based on the 
fact no new evidence has been presented that would change my provisional decision, I see 
no reason to depart from my findings as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman