DRN-3956331
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the quality of a car hed acquired on a hire agreement with 
Arval UK Limited.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr J acquired a car under a two-year hire agreement with Arval UK. Mr J paid 
an initial rental payment of around £1,500 and had monthly rental payments of around £500. 
Mr J tells us the manufacturer carried out an over the air update on 12 May 2022 which 
caused a problem with certain systems such as the climate control; safety systems; and 
entertainment system. He said the touch screen that controls those functions continually 
rebooted itself. The car had covered around 10,000 miles at this point. 
Mr J says he was unable to use the car for two weeks as it was unsafe. He tells us the car 
was sent to an approved garage on 26 May 2022. He says he was provided a courtesy car 
by the garage until the manufacturer supplied a courtesy car on 9 June 2022. The 
replacement part took some time to be supplied, and the car was returned to Mr J on or 
around 28 September 2022. Mr J was unhappy he was paying for a car he couldnt use. He 
says the courtesy cars were of lower specification. He was unable to take his dog in the 
courtesy cars and he was inconvenienced by having to chase updates from the parties 
involved. 
Arval UK apologised for the length of time it took for the repairs to be carried out but as Mr J 
was kept mobile it didnt offer anything else. 
Mr J referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into things. After 
considering what happened, in recognition of the inconvenience caused, and considering the 
courtesy cars were of a lower specification she recommended Arval UK issue a pro-rata 
refund of Mr Js monthly rentals from 12 May  26 May 2022 for the period he was unable to 
use the car; refund 10% of his rental payments for the time he had courtesy cars; and pay 
him £150 compensation.
Arval UK agreed with the recommendation. But Mr J didnt think the offer was reflective of 
the inconvenience caused. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mr J 
and Arval UK that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its 
not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
The car was supplied to Mr J under a regulated consumer hire agreement. Our service is 
able to consider complaints about these sorts of agreements. Arval UK is the supplier of the 
goods under the agreement and is responsible for dealing with a complaint about their 
quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr J entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality.
The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the 
standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the 
description of the goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. In a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history.
Ive only been given background information about the fault by Mr J and Arval UK. But it 
looks like it was a significant issue that required a control unit to be replaced. Given the car 
was only a year or two old, it had covered around 10,000 miles, and theres no indication the 
fault was caused by usual wear and tear or by Mr J failing to maintain it properly, on balance, 
I dont think its the sort of fault a reasonable person would expect in these circumstances. 
Arval UK hasnt disputed this. But for completeness, on balance, I think there was a breach 
of contract and so I also agree its fair for Arval UK to do something in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr J was paying nearly £500 per month towards the car, and he tells us he wasnt able to 
use it for two weeks after the fault occurred. So I find our investigators recommendation for 
Arval UK to reimburse Mr J for those two weeks loss of use to be fair and reasonable. 
Mr J was given a courtesy car for around four months. The initial courtesy car for a few days, 
and the subsequent car for the rest of the time. I can understand Mr J was unhappy to be 
paying nearly £500 per month and he wasnt driving the car he was paying for. Four months 
out of a two-year contract is a significant period. Seeing as though Mr J was kept mobile, I 
agree it wouldnt be fair to direct Arval UK to refund him everything hed paid in those 
months. But I think its fair hes refunded part of his rental payments in recognition he was 
paying for something he wasnt able to use. But how much is fair to return?Theres no exact science or formula to work out what is a fair refund. But Ive looked at the 
models of the two cars Mr J was given as a courtesy car  particularly the model of car he 
had for most of the time the car hed acquired under the hire agreement was being repaired. 
While Ive not gone into the sort of detail where Ive looked at the optional extras or 
specifications on the car Mr J acquired under the hire agreement compared to the courtesy 
car, I think our investigators recommendation of a 10% refund broadly seems a fair way to 
put things right. The current basic price of the car Mr J acquired compared to the basic price 
of the courtesy car he had for most of the time is not vastly different. From what Ive seen, 
the current starting price of the courtesy car is around £29,000 and the starting price of the 
model Mr J acquired is around £30,000. I appreciate this is not a perfect comparison but, in 
the round, given Im required to resolve the complaint quickly and with minimum formality, 
Im satisfied a 10% refund is a fair and reasonable way to put things right. 
Mr J has also told us he was inconvenienced by having to regularly contact the various 
parties to find out what was happening. And he also tells us it was inconvenient not being 
able to take his dog in the courtesy car. Im sorry to hear about the trouble hes been put to. I 
can imagine it must have been frustrating having to wait so long for things to be resolved 
and having to ask for updates. Taking everything into account, I also consider some 
compensation to be fair. And I think the £150 recommended by our investigator is a fair 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and, to the extend its not done so already, 
direct Arval UK Limited to:
Issue a pro-rata refund of Mr Js monthly rental to cover the period between 12 May 
to 26 May 2022 for the time he was unable to use his car. 
Refund Mr J 10% of any rental payments to cover the period between 27 May to 28 
September 2022.
Pay Mr J £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman