DRN-3785038
The complaint
Mr N complains about the advice given to him by Tier One Capital Ltd to invest funds in his 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in a property-backed lending trust.
What happened
Mr N was a client of Tier One. He had meetings with advisers from the firm, providing details 
of his financial assets, and completed an attitude to risk assessment. In October 2015, Mr N 
applied to join the PSG Aspire SIPP.
In February 2016, Tier One wrote to Mr N through the trustees of his SIPP. It recommended 
that he invest £25,000 into a private funding circle. This was to be held in his SIPP, and was 
classed by Tier One as a moderate risk investment.
In November 2016, Tier One wrote about a new investment opportunity  an investment trust 
(now known as Develop North). Some of the key points from this letter are summarised 
below: 
Develop North would be listed on the London Stock Exchange and would be a UK 
authorised investment trust.
The investment trust would provide loans to proposed borrowers, who could be a 
private client, company or other entities such as a trust.
The stated risks were credit risk, market risk, inflation risk and liquidity risk.
Tier One classed this as a moderate risk investment, saying the balance of risk and 
reward in this investment trust was an attractive opportunity for a suitable allocation 
within Mr Ns investment portfolio, and that as long as the overall balance of 
investments sat within the defined risk rating agreed at the outset, there was no 
disadvantage to holding investments with higher or lower individual risk ratings.
Tier One recommended that Mr N switch his existing Tier One direct lending investments 
into the equivalent value of new shares in Develop North and look to use any existing tax 
efficient wrappers available so that the dividend would be received in a tax efficient manner.
Tier One also sent other documents including an offer letter and Key Information Document 
(KID). The offer was accepted in December 2016, and the investment switch took place in 
January 2017.
During a review meeting in March 2018, Mr N said he wanted to make a further investment 
in Develop North. The meeting notes show he expressed concern at a recent investment 
hed made into a project. It said he wasnt aware of the fees charged by his SIPP, and he 
wanted to cancel the investment and replace it with a further investment in Develop North. 
In June 2018 Mr N made a further investment of £61,000 in Develop North, which brought 
his total investment in the investment trust to £86,500.
Mr N received dividend payments on a quarterly basis. But in early 2020, he expressed 
concerns about the investment and said he wanted to withdraw funds. He says his 
discussions with Tier One led him to believe that he couldnt access his money as soon as 
he wanted. Tier One says it advised Mr N he could sell his shares but the price at that point 
was 75 pence per share.
Mr N complained to Tier One, saying he believed the Develop North investment had been 
mis-sold. He also complained at the same time about other investments held outside of his 
SIPP.
The share price fell but Mr N said he would sell the shares if they could be sold at 75p. In 
June 2020 they were sold at that price
Tier One sent a final response to Mr Ns complaint in August 2020. The response mainly 
addressed other issues on the basis Mr N said the sale of the shares resolved this issue.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said Mr N had only invested on 
the basis of the advice from Tier One in 2016, and he didnt think that advice was suitable. 
The investigator recommended that Tier One carry out a calculation to see whether Mr N 
had suffered a loss by comparing the performance of his investment in Develop North with a 
benchmark.
Tier One doesnt agree and has requested an ombudsmans decision. It says: 
the initial investment in 2016 was in line with Mr Ns attitude to risk and was suitable;
it didnt give any advice on the second investment in 2018; 
Mr N continued to make further investments until January 2020;
the poor performance in early 2020 was in line with the market generally at the time, 
due to the impact of the covid pandemic; and
Mr N could have retained the shares and waited for the price to increase.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tier One gave advice to Mr N and said the investment in Develop North was suitable. When 
giving this advice, Tier One had to ensure it obtained the information needed about Mr Ns 
circumstances to be able to advise him, and ensure that its advice was suitable for him, 
taking into account his circumstances. 
Tier One says its advice was suitable. Amongst other things, it has made the following 
points:
The documents set out all the relevant risks.
The investment was in line with Mr Ns risk profile and investment objectives.
The advice was given to the SIPP and approved by the pension fund trustees on 
behalf of Mr N; any concerns should have been raised with them.
Mr N made the investment of £25,000 in January 2017. The investment performed as 
anticipated and paid a quarterly dividend, which Mr N reinvested in more shares each 
time.
Despite what Tier One has said about the pension trustees, its clear that the client was 
Mr N, not the pension trustees  they have confirmed that they had no say in investment 
decisions. The advice was given to Mr N about how he should invest his money and he was 
entitled to any return on the investment. So the complaint was rightly made to Tier One.
Mr Ns attitude to risk was assessed as being highest medium and the investment was said 
to be moderate risk. Tier One lays particular emphasis on the KID. It says this document was 
prepared by the provider, in accordance with the Regulators requirements, and its not for this service to substitute its own view of the risk involved.
I appreciate Tiers One view that the risk involved in the investment was said to be moderate 
and of course Ive taken into account what the KID says. But I have to consider whats fair 
and reasonable taking into account all the circumstances of the case  not just the contents 
of one document.
Although the KID said this was a moderate risk, it also noted the company was not regulated 
or authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. The documents also show that:
The portfolio was intended to be diversified by sector and would predominantly be 
split between regional residential house-building, with a preliminary focus on non-
London based property; small to medium commercial property development across 
the UK; and direct sale and leaseback vehicles.
The investment trust was able to use gearing, as well as derivatives and hedging.
The initial portfolio consisted of ten loans. Two of these had a loan to value (LTV) of 
over 100%, but the blended LTV was around 65%.
The various documents set out the risks involved. But making Mr N aware of the risks 
doesnt necessarily mean the advice was suitable. I think the investment involved more risk 
for Mr N than Tier One suggests. In coming to this view, Ive taken into account all the 
circumstances, including that:
the investment trust was only recently established and had no operating history;
there was in fact little diversification, with investments solely in property and the trust 
made up of 10 loans; and 
it wasnt regulated.
The registration document for the investment trust says the fact that the company was 
newly-formed and had no trading history was a risk factor. Mr N didnt have the protection 
that comes with regulated investments, such as that provided by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Investing solely in property meant there was more risk if 
that sector suffered a downturn; the investments were not spread across different areas or 
asset classes. Mr N was investing in something new and unregulated. That inherently carries 
more risk to an investor with for example substantial liquidity, credit and market risks. 
Mr N referred to the investments being asset-backed and may have felt investing in 
property gave more security than stocks and shares. But I dont think Tier One made it clear 
how much risk was really involved; this was a non-standard unregulated investment. 
Tier Ones view is that it would be reasonable for Mr N to have investments of a higher or 
lower risk than his attitude to risk, provided his overall investable wealth was within it. The 
asset summary (from some time before the advice) shows Mr N having £85,000 in his 
pension, and around £150,000 in cash. Tier One wasnt giving him advice on that cash or 
acting as investment managers to his SIPP. So Mr N could make other investments however 
he wished. In those circumstances, it would be reasonable to ensure any individual 
investment recommended to Mr N was appropriate for his attitude to risk. Otherwise he 
might be exposed to a high proportion of investments having a higher risk. 
Tier Oner says the 2018 investment shouldnt be taken into account, as it didnt give advice 
on that. However, Mr N had only invested in Develop North because of the advice given 
previously. The further investment followed on from that and so the two were directly 
connected  the investment in 2018 wouldnt have happened but for the earlier investment, 
which was made as a result of Tier Ones advice.
Tier One has questioned the relevance of the fact the investment was unregulated. As Ive 
explained, unregulated investments tend to carry more risk and dont provide the protection that comes with regulated investments.
Tier One has also commented that the suggested remedy allows for compensation for poor 
performance even if the risk had been fully understood and accepted. The key point is not 
whether the risks were explained and accepted but whether the investment was suitable. I 
dont think the risks were fully explained but even if they were  and even if the investment 
seemed attractive to Mr N  that doesnt mean it was suitable for someone in his 
circumstances.
Finally, Tier One has said the proposed redress is based on an index that its not possible for 
an investor to access. The index is not intended to be something Mr N can invest in  its 
simply an index that is used as a way of measuring the return he could have achieved, had 
he invested in a range of suitable investments. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr N as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr N would have invested differently, had he not invested in Develop North. Its not 
possible to say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
What should Tier One do?
I understand Mr N did receive some return on his investment. The whole investment needs 
to be taken into account, since with suitable advice he wouldnt have made the investment or 
earned any interest.
To compensate Mr N fairly, Tier One should:
Compare the performance of Mr N's investment in the SIPP with that of the 
benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a 
loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Tier One should pay into Mr N's pension plan, to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Tier One is unable to pay the compensation into Mr N's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr N wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr N's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr N is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr N would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Tier One considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr N how 
much has been taken off. Tier One should also give Mr N a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Develop 
North holding 
within the 
Aspire SIPP - 
JNNo longer 
existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investments 
in 2017 and 
2018Date his 
Develop 
North 
holdings 
were soldn/a 
If a loss is identified by the above method, Mr N should also be compensated for any lost 
growth on the sum of that loss, by calculating the growth it would have made had it been 
invested in line with the above benchmark, from the end date to the date of settlement.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments to Mr N, should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Tier One totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr N was willing to accept some investment risk
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr N's circumstances and risk attitude.My final decision
I uphold Mr Ns complaint and direct Tier One Capital Ltd to compensate him as set out 
above.
Tier One Capital Ltd should provide details of the calculation to Mr N in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman