DRN-3388768
The complaint
Mr L and Miss R are unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs handling and
settlement of water damage claims under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L and Miss R found they were suffering a leak under their sink. The floor beneath had 
sunk due to the leak. Unfortunately, this wasnt an end to Mr L and Miss Rs claims. Just a 
few weeks later they suffered a further water damage leak from above the kitchen. This 
damaged the kitchen ceiling, the kitchen floor and other areas including the landing/stair 
carpets in their home.
A loss adjuster S inspected the damage in relation to claim one. He said the joists under 
the kitchen floor had rotted due to the moisture from the leak and there was also a blocked 
airbrick in the exterior wall. RSA confirmed that due to the leak not being a one off event and 
the gradual nature of the damage the repair of the joists wasnt covered under the policy. 
RSA said this would be Mr L and Miss Rs responsibility.
Turning to the second claim RSA agreed that the second water damage claim had caused 
further damage to the kitchen floor and agreed to replace the floor covering only. RSA still 
confirmed that this couldnt yet be done and would be reviewed after the required repair of 
the joists had been dealt with by Mr L and Miss R. RSA said that if the kitchen units needed 
to be removed to allow the floor to be replaced a builder would be required to refit these 
afterwards. Mr L and Miss R said the units would need to be removed but it wouldnt be 
possible to refit them. They said RSA would need to replace the units with new ones.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr L and Miss R brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said S didnt take up the floor to view the joists, 
so it hadnt enough evidence to show the joists were the problem. She said RSA should 
appoint an independent specialist contractor to view and test the joists. The specialist should 
report back to both parties. She said RSA should appoint a contractor to carry out the claim 
works, and RSA should provide Mr L and Miss R with copies of the loss adjusters reports as 
they had already requested these.
RSA didnt accept this. It said it had already provided the loss adjuster reports to Mr L and 
Miss R. It maintained claim one for the joists was excluded, it had accepted claim two. RSA 
asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Regarding claim one RSA instructed experts S on its behalf. S said due to the floor 
dropping away over a period of time it was clear that the joists underneath had rotted. S said 
there could be a couple of different potential causes but none of these would be an insured 
event under the policy. So, the claim for water damage was declined. RSA said the damage 
wasnt a one off event, it was wear and tear and it was occurring gradually.
The details from RSA continued: rear garden always floods due to high water tables and 
that rainwater always runs towards the garage along the gable end wall. Previous owners 
installed an eco channel in the driveway to deviate water into its connection with the 
underground services. Insured noticed the kitchen sink base units had sunken which 
occurred over a period less than 6 months. The sink had sunken from the granite worktop 
and there is evidence of historic re-seal repairs which have again failed. The chipboard base 
unit is disintegrating due to sink water constantly overflowing within the chipboard base unit 
carcass and will have led to saturation of the timber floor and joists. External inspection 
revealed the airbrick at the rear of the property to cause natural airflow in subfloor space had 
been replaced with a solid brick. The lack of airflow and constant saturation would have 
caused the timbers to rot and units to sink. This would have been a gradual process.
RSA confirmed it hadnt seen any evidence to dispute these findings. It concluded We 
simply cannot provide financial assistance with a maintenance related problem. It also said, 
the floor joists are a separate maintenance related issue to this secondary claim we have 
accepted. RSA stated that rot doesnt appear overnight its a gradual thing.
RSA concluded the point by saying Our claims team are prepared to consider the claim 
further once they have proof that the floor joists have been resolved. This will include on how 
to approach the fitting of the floor covering and how this would impact the kitchen.
On their complaint form Mr L and Miss R said the floor had dropped over a period of six 
months. So, I accept what RSA say here. The damage isnt sudden or unforeseen. I think 
the reasons RSA has given for not dealing with the joists and claim one are reasonable.
In the second claim the kitchen floor covering was water damaged along with other things 
such as the ceiling and the landing/stair carpet. RSA accepted this claim. RSA made it clear 
that under this claim the rotten joists were still excluded. Mr L and Miss R provided quotes 
that included taking out the kitchen units. RSA made an offer saying it wouldnt pay towards 
the kitchen unit removals because this was linked to the joist repairs that were not insured. 
Mr L and Miss R rejected the offer. RSA maintained the second claim couldnt be concluded 
until the joist damage had been repaired by Mr L and Miss R.
RSA in its final response dealt with some other handling issues Mr L and Miss R had also 
raised. The request for alternative accommodation was declined as this was also linked to 
the rotten joists which Mr L and Miss R said was making the floor dangerous for them as a 
family. RSA referred to the policy wording here If the home is damaged by any cause listed 
under section A and, as a result, it cannot be lived in, we will pay any additional cost of 
similar short-term accommodation expenses until the home is ready to be lived in." RSA 
confirmed that damage to a floor covering doesnt make the house uninhabitable. But it did 
say it would be willing to reconsider this when the floor covering was being replaced. So, it 
still said it was down to Mr L and Miss R to resolve the joists issue. But when it came to the 
floor covering afterwards, RSA was willing to deal with in the second claim, it would review 
the situation. I think this is fair.
RSA confirmed the plumbing work wasnt covered. It said it wouldnt pay costs for rectifying 
the leak. RSA said it was unable to pay the cost to rectify the cause of the leak, but it could 
consider the damage caused by the leak. RSA did say Mr L and Miss R could try to claim 
their other costs back through their home emergency cover provider. I think thats a standard 
term and a standard approach to such claims under a buildings insurance policy, so I think 
RSAs answer is reasonable.
RSA apologised for overlooking the carpets claim which it confirmed it would deal with. It 
accepted it had caused delay here and apologised for this. It confirmed it then instructed experts to act right away regarding the carpets. It also confirmed that the loss adjuster 
reports had already been provided to Mr L and Miss R.
More recently Mr L and Miss R did get the joists fixed. They did this without having to 
remove the whole kitchen. But in line with the comments above I dont think RSA need to 
pay towards Mr L and Miss Rs costs for the work on the joists.
RSA said now the joist work is complete it would like to inspect the kitchen again to reassess 
the next steps. It has also confirmed it can offer the cash option still to Mr L and Miss R or 
alternatively it can get its own contractors to do the work. This is at Mr L and Miss Rs option. 
They can decide what they would prefer. RSA said it had offered to do this originally. I think 
this is reasonable and I dont think RSA has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA confirmed it had nothing to add to the provisional decision.
Mr L and Miss R did respond asking again for full copies of the RSA visit reports. Which 
were eventually passed on to them for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr L and Miss R have now had a chance to look fully through the full copies of 
the visit reports. I have and I dont think theres anything in any of them that changes my 
mind regarding the outcome of my provisional decision. Because of this my provisional 
decision will now become my final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman