DRN-3542631
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) hasnt paid a claim he made after he had 
an operation. He also complains that Vitality didnt send him the terms and conditions for his 
policy in good time for him to read these.
What happened
Mr S has had a private medical insurance policy with Vitality since 2019. It provides him with 
cover for certain medical procedures both in and out of hospital.
In late March 2021 Mr S fell and hurt his leg. Some days later he contacted his GP about 
pain he was suffering and the GP advised him to go to a local hospital accident and 
emergency department to get his leg checked. Mr S did that and tests showed hed broken 
his femur. He was admitted and had a hip replacement operation the next day. Mr S stayed 
in hospital for about ten days.
Some time later Mr S submitted a claim to Vitality. He claimed an allowance for each night 
he stayed in hospital. Vitality accepted the claim, but when it found out the circumstances 
surrounding Mr Ss admittance to hospital, it said there was an exclusion in the policy that 
meant it need not pay the allowance if it was an emergency admission.
Mr S complained saying that as he wasnt admitted to hospital for several days after his 
accident it wasnt an emergency. He also said that hed never received the terms and 
conditions for his policy for the first couple of years hed had cover  and only received the 
ones for the year beginning 1 March 2021 on 26th February. He says thats not long enough 
for him to have checked the terms and conditions before he renewed the policy.
Vitality did acknowledge that it could have provided better service to Mr S when dealing with 
his claim, and sent him £125 to make up for this. Mr S didnt think that was good enough and 
asked us to review his complaint.
Our investigator thought Vitality had done enough. They thought that the terms and 
conditions made it clear that the admission was on an emergency basis, and that the 
exclusion Vitality relied upon was clear in the paperwork. They also thought Mr S had had 
sufficient time to check the terms and conditions if hed wanted to, and also time to contact 
Vitality if these didnt suit him. 
Mr S doesnt agree with this. He says the crux of his complaint is that he didnt have time to 
study the terms and conditions and wants his claim paid in full. Ive been asked to decide the 
outcome of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I know this isnt what Mr S wants to hear, and as this 
is our final input into this complaint Ill explain how I reached my decision. 
Im very sorry Mr S has suffered such a serious injury, and trust hes made a full recovery. I 
think there are two main parts to the complaint, so Ill deal with them separately.
The policy terms and conditions
Mr S says he didnt get copies of the terms and conditions  which show the detail of what 
his policy covers, and just as importantly what it doesnt cover  for 2019 and 2020. I dont 
doubt this  but I have to agree with Vitality when it says these documents dont affect this 
complaint, which is about what happened in the year from March 2021 onwards. 
Thats because only the terms and conditions for the year of the accident apply to a claim. I 
couldnt take into account documents relating to earlier years  so whether Mr S read these 
or not doesnt affect my decision.
I have thought about Mr Ss complaint about not getting the 2021 terms and conditions in 
time to read them in detail before he renewed his policy. I can see Vitality wrote to him at the 
end of January 2021 about renewing his policy on 1st March. And that letter asks Mr S to 
check the terms and conditions document to make sure the policy suited him. It also wrote to 
his financial intermediary  the broker Mr S used to buy the policy  at the same time. 
Vitality directed Mr S to a website to look at the terms and conditions  but Mr S had already 
told Vitality he doesnt use a computer. So it wasnt as straightforward for him to review the 
terms and conditions as it might have been. 
A couple of weeks later Vitality sent Mr S a paper copy of the terms and conditions. The 
accompanying letter is dated 21st February, although Mr S says he didnt get it until 26th. 
Thats only a few days before his policy renewed. However, Vitality did tell Mr S in the letter 
from the end of January that he could cancel his policy without penalty within 14 days of his 
policy renewing. That would be the 14th of March. So even though I agree he got a copy of 
the terms and conditions late, he did have them for over a fortnight before cancelling the 
policy might have cost him anything.
I think thats long enough for Mr S to have checked the policy still suited him  even if he 
wasnt feeling too well at the time. I havent seen anything that suggests Mr S wouldnt have 
bought the policy even if he had read the terms and conditions. The exclusion hes 
complaining about is common in policies like Mr Ss, so I also dont think hed have been 
able to buy one without that exclusion  or at least not for a comparable price.
I note also that Mr S has since renewed his policy and it has a similar exclusion in it. That 
too suggests hed have bought the policy in 2021 as he seems to think its still suitable now 
hes aware of that exclusion.
Taking everything into account I dont think the policy was mis-sold, nor have I seen anything 
that persuades me Mr S would most likely have cancelled the policy if hed read the terms 
and conditions before he had his accident. 
The claim
Ive also thought about what happened when Mr S made his claim. 
The part of the policy Mr S claimed under is headed NHS cash benefit. It pays a set amount daily if Mr S chooses to have treatment as a non-paying NHS patient rather than 
using a private facility. Theres a clear exclusion within the section that says no benefits are 
payable if Mr S is admitted in an emergency. 
I agree Mr S didnt seek medical help for some days after his fall. When he did that, he was 
told to go to accident and emergency by his doctor. Mr S was admitted on the same day, 
and transferred from the accident and emergency department to a ward  and had surgery 
the next day. I think that is fairly described as an emergency. The alternate would be that Mr 
S was having planned surgery  which isnt the case here. I think Vitality has fairly relied 
upon the relevant clause when deciding it need not meet the claim.  
I can see the claim wasnt handled as well as it could have been. But Im satisfied the 
compensation Vitality paid for this was a fair way to make up for the upset and 
inconvenience this caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman