DRN-4148485
The complaint
Miss R complains about the end of contract charges in relation to a car that was supplied 
through a hire agreement with Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Vehicle 
Solutions (NVS). 
What happened
In November 2017, Miss R hired a car through a hire agreement with NVS, the agreement 
was for a minimum period of 48 months.
Miss R said that when returning her car, she was told by the collections inspector that the 
thered be no end of contract charges to pay as they believed any damage to be within fair 
wear and tear guidelines. Miss R also said they didnt say anything about mileage charges.
However, Miss R said she received correspondence from NVS advising that shed have to 
pay for damage to the wheels and for excess mileage. Miss R said she paid for the charges 
but complained to NVS that she wasnt made aware of them at the point of collection.
In March 2023 NVS issued their final response to Miss Rs complaint which they partially 
upheld. NVS said the charges for the excess mileage and damage to the alloys were applied 
correctly. NVS however apologised for the inspect and collect process and applied a credit 
of £25 to the excess mileage charge as compensation.
Unhappy with their decision, Miss R brought her complaint to our service for investigation. 
Miss R says she wants NVS to refund to her what shes paid. 
Having reviewed all the information on file, our investigator recommended that Miss Rs 
complaint should not be upheld. Our investigator concluded that the end of contract charges 
were applied fairly by NVS and in line with the appropriate guidance.
NVS accepted this recommendation. Miss R didnt. She said she wasnt happy with the lack 
of transparency in the process of applying charges. As our investigators view remained 
unchanged, Miss R asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire agreement. As such, this service is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British vehicle lease and rental 
association (BVLRA), and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear on passenger cars where they are 
returned at the end of a lease contract or finance agreement. 
In her email to our investigator dated 4 May 2023, Miss R said that she didnt dispute the 
excess mileage charge. So, I wont focus on this here, however having reviewed the 
calculation made by NVS for the excess mileage, Im satisfied that those charges were 
applied fairly. 
In relation to the alloy damage, The BVRLA says any damage to the alloy is not acceptable. 
It also says there must be no rust or corrosion on the alloy.
I acknowledge that Miss R says she was told by the collections inspector that it wouldnt be 
chargeable. However, having reviewed the final inspection report, where the images clearly 
show damage and corrosion in excess of fair wear and tear, and in consideration of the 
BVRLA guidance, Im satisfied that the charges for the alloy damage and corrosion were 
correctly applied.
Although Ive found that NVS were acting fairly in applying the end of contract charges, from 
what Miss R has said, I think she was also unhappy with how those charges were applied.
In an email to our investigator Miss R said: I thought the whole point of having an inspection 
was that any costs would be discussed with us however your saying the car can be returned 
and then reinspected and they can then decide again if they are going to apply charges or 
not
The BVRLA says that following the collection of a vehicle, the leasing company will be able 
to carry out a final assessment of the vehicle to calculate what end of lease charges may 
apply. 
In consideration of this, I think its reasonable to conclude that end of contract damage 
charges are not always identified or recorded during the initial inspection at the time of 
collection.
I acknowledge Miss Rs strength of feeling about the verbal exchange and assurances that 
she says were given to her by the collection inspector. However, I dont think this means the 
charges shouldnt apply. NVS have acknowledged there were some issues with the inspect 
and collect process and have compensated Miss R with £25. I think this fairly recognises the 
inconvenience caused and is reasonable in the circumstances. 
As Ive found that NVS acted fairly in applying the end of contract charges and reasonably 
compensated Miss R for any inconvenience caused in the process, I wont be asking them to 
do anything more in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint against Mitsubishi 
HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman