DRN-2398288
The complaint
Mr S complains Royal and Sun Alliance Plc unfairly cancelled his telematics motor insurance 
policy. 
RSAs had an agent acting on its behalf when dealing with Mr S and this complaint. For ease 
Ive referred to its actions as being those of RSA. Mr S has also been represented for this 
complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the comments and actions of his representatives as 
being those of Mr S. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr S took out an RSA telematics motor insurance policy. It required him to 
have a telematics box installed in his car. The box monitored various aspects of his driving 
behaviour including his location and speed. 
In February 2020 RSA wrote to Mr S to say the box recently recorded him as driving in an 
unacceptable manner. He had been awarded a highly dangerous rating. So it issued a 
seven day notice of cancellation. It said he had been driving at an unacceptable speed  
above 100mph on a road with a 70mph limit. It said in those circumstances the policy terms 
allow it to cancel cover. 
Mr S was unhappy with the cancellation. He denied driving at the speed claimed by RSA. He 
complained that there must be a problem with the box or the data. In response to Mr Ss 
complaint RSA said the box and the relevant data had been checked but no errors or issues 
were found. It was satisfied the cancellation had been made in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.  
Mr S didnt accept that, so he came to this service. He wants RSA to recognise the box had 
been recording the driving behaviour inaccurately from the start of the policy  and that 
theres reasonable doubt theres an error with the data about the alleged speeding event. He 
wants any record of the cancellation removed from insurance databases and any lost no 
claims discount reinstated. He also wants any record of the cancellation removed from 
insurance databases.
Our investigator didnt think there was enough to say the speeding event data was 
inaccurate. So she felt RSA had cancelled Mr S policy fairly and in line with the terms of his 
policy. Mr S didnt accept that, so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr S and RSA have provided a lot information and comments for this complaint. As this 
is an informal service I havent explained or addressed every point or comment here. Instead 
Ive focused on what I consider the key aspects. But Id like to reassure both that I have 
considered everything provided.
Mr Ss policy terms do say RSA can cancel cover if he drives at unacceptably high speeds. 
RSA says he drove at about 108mph on a road with a 70mph limit. That would seem a fair 
reason to cancel the policy if it did happen. But Mr S says he didnt. Hes made various 
points about the technology involved. He feels it isnt reliable  and that RSA hasnt shown 
its working correctly.
For me to say RSA had unfairly cancelled his policy Id need to think its most likely the box 
wasnt working properly or that theres a problem with the data. I accept its possible either is 
the case and that Mr S didnt drive at such a high speed. But having considered everything 
provided I cant say thats most likely.  
RSA says a technical team thoroughly analysed the driving data to ensure it had been 
transmitted correctly. It says it checked the correct speed limit had been applied and correct 
co-ordinates used. It says remote diagnostics showed the box to be working correctly. 
RSAs provided a map of the locations and speeds for the relevant journey. It pinpoints Mr 
Ss speed at certain points along the road hes said to have reached 108 mph. The speeds 
at certain locations match the layout of the road. For example, close to two roundabouts the 
speeds are below 30mph. But between them the speed increases to well above the 70mph 
limit. Recorded speed falls again to below 30 mph as the second roundabout is approached. 
Ive checked some of the coordinates, limits and reported speeds myself. I found it 
supported RSAs speed mapping. 
Mr S has cast doubt on the accuracy of the GPS data. He feels RSA hasnt shown its 
accurate. Hes made various points about the quality of the data, including missing distance 
data. Ive considered these along with RSAs responses. It says there wasnt a problem with 
the GPS data for the journey. Overall, Im not persuaded there most likely was a problem 
with it.  
Mr S has said there was a problem with the box and data prior to the speeding event. Ive 
considered what he says. But I havent seen enough to make me think there was. 
Throughout the complaint Mr S has asked RSA to provide certain information to support its 
claim that its telematics data is accurate. It seems it may not have provided everything hes 
asked for. But I cant say hes lost out as a result of it failing to do so. Mr S has said he wants 
an independent expert to consider the telematics system and its data. RSA hasnt arranged 
for that. I dont feel its necessary so Im not requiring it to do so.
 
Overall, Im satisfied enough has been provided already for me to consider this complaint  
including the thoughts of Mr Ss own expert. Having looked at everything I cant say its most 
likely there was a problem with the telematics box or its data. Instead it seems most likely to 
have been recording accurately and fairly. So I cant say RSA cancelled Mr Ss policy 
unfairly or unreasonably.     
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman