DRN-3744621
The complaint
Ms W has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC have held her liable for a transaction of 
£229.99. Ms W is disputing she made this transaction
What happened
Ms W told Barclays that she didnt authorise the £229.99 paid out of her bank account to pay 
for a bed from a national selling internet platform. 
Barclays confirmed that her card was used normally plus it received evidence from the seller 
of the bed that it had been delivered to her address. So, it wasnt upholding her complaint. 
However, Barclays felt the service she received on the web chat was not to the agreed 
standard, so it paid her £25.00 compensation.
Ms W didnt agree so she brought her complaint to us. The investigator also didnt think it 
should be upheld. Ms W remained dissatisfied, so her complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
The rules that govern this dispute are called the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs). And 
these are not open to interpretation. The starting point is that a consumer like Ms W here is 
liable for any authorised transactions. Generally, this means the bank is responsible for 
showing the correct payment details were used, and that the consumer, Ms W here, 
consented to the transactions, either by carrying them out themselves or allowing someone 
else to do so.
Im satisfied Ms Ws genuine card details were used to make the purchase of this bed. 
Barclays has shown us that Ms W told them she still had her bank card at the time the 
purchase of this bed online as in it wasnt lost or stolen. Also, Ms W hasnt told us she 
allowed anyone else to use her card, given the national selling platform account was in 
another name. 
The seller of the bed confirmed to Barclays that the address where the bed was to be sent to 
was Ms Ws own address so there was no question that the bed was going somewhere else 
where Ms W wouldnt have the use of the bed. Ms W said she was in hospital at the time of 
this transaction. She hadnt provided any proof of that however, also she declined to say 
whether she returned the bed, which she could have done if it wasnt her who ordered the 
bed. So, I think that if it was a fraudster doing this transaction, then ordering a bed to Ms Ws 
address was an odd item to order, as its bulky and has little resale value. So, I consider its 
unlikely that Ms Ws card was used by an unknown person.  
This then means that I consider Ms W likely did authorise the payment for the purposes of 
the contents of the PSRs. That also means that I dont think Barclays did anything wrong or 
that it needs to refund Ms W the £229.99 taken from her account to pay for this bed. 
Barclays agreed the service Ms W received over the web chat was not at its usual standard, 
so it paid her £25 compensation. I agree that this level of compensation is fair and 
reasonable in this type of situation.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman