DRN-4351547
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with what Alwyn Insurance Company Limited did after Mr D
made a claim on his landlord legal protection insurance policy.
All references to Alwyn include its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr D is the policyholder of a landlord legal protection policy underwritten by Alwyn. In
November 2021 he contacted Alwyn and said the tenants of his property had moved out and
it was now occupied by others who werent named on the tenancy agreement. The rent for
the property was being paid by the guarantor named on that agreement. He made a claim on
his policy.
Alwyn didnt think the claim was covered because Mr D hadnt served the relevant legal
notice on the occupiers of his property. And that was a requirement of the repossession
section of his policy. There was then discussion over whether the people in the property 
were squatting and whether cover could be provided for trespass. Alwyn said hed need a 
police incident report if that was the case. But as the guarantor was still making payment it 
wasnt clear if the property had in fact been sublet. It recommended he seek legal advice 
and said it would reconsider matters once the position was clearer.
In December Mr D said hed contacted the police who hadnt taken action and advised him
to contact the immigration service. Alwyn escalated matters internally to see if cover could
be provided without evidence of a police referral. At the end of January it agreed to accept
the claim and the matter was referred to a panel solicitor for an assessment of whether it had
prospects of success (a requirement of the policy). That was provided at the end of March. It
concluded the claim didnt have reasonable prospects but advised Mr D on next steps.
In April Mr D provided notices that had been served on the occupiers of the property. Alwyn
agreed funding for the panel solicitor to review matters. His advice was prospects were still
below 50% because the notices had been served on the former tenants and not the current
occupiers. Alwyn agreed further funding for a discussion and review of points made by Mr D.
That was provided but due to complaints Mr D had made the panel firm said they were
conflicted and asked Alwyn to appoint another firm. It doesnt appear it was necessary to do
so because Mr D obtained possession of the property at the end of May.
Mr D said Alwyn should have taken action on his claim when he first contacted it in
November 2021. He thought it should provide compensation for the lost rent and stress hed
been caused because it didnt do that.
In his most recent view our investigator said Alwyn was entitled to rely on the prospects
assessment the panel solicitor had carried out. But it should have provided Mr D with more
information about what he could do if he disagreed with that. And he didnt think it had been
clear in its communication with him and thought there had been delay in progressing the
claim. He said it should pay Mr D £500.
Mr D accepted that (though made clear his ongoing dissatisfaction with the actions of the
panel solicitor who hed complained to the Legal Ombudsman about). Alwyn didnt agree. It
didnt think there was justification for the compensation amount and queried what delays it
had caused. And it said the policy wording explained what a policyholder needed to do if
they wanted to challenge a legal assessment. So I need to reach a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint earlier this month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Alywn has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
First, I appreciate Mr D has found the number of different bodies involved with his claim
confusing which I understand. But its not unusual for an insurer to delegate the handling of a
claim. Mr D has suggested thats an abrogation of responsibility but I dont agree. Even
where claims handling has been delegated, the insurer remains responsible for the actions
(or inactions) of the handler. And we would consider any failing on the part of the claims
handler to be a failing by the insurer.
I think whats caused further confusion in this case is the claims handling has been
delegated to a solicitors firm. And that solicitors firm also act in a legal capacity when (for
example) carrying out an assessment of whether a claim has reasonable prospects of
success. What the firm does when carrying out its legal role isnt something I can consider
(thats something the Legal Ombudsman can look at and Mr D is pursuing a complaint with
them). What I can consider is how the claim itself was handled (as thats something Alwyn is
responsible for) so Ive gone on to look at that in this decision.
I understand Mr D initially contacted the legal helpline offered by his policy. But, as the
issues he was raising were too specific for it to assist with, he was advised to make a formal
claim on his policy. I dont think that was unreasonable. The issues raised by Mr D were
complicated by the fact those named on the tenancy agreement were no longer residing at
his property and the status of the actual occupiers was unclear.
Mr D says after he made his formal claim Alwyn should have ensured he received the more
detailed legal advice that was later provided. But in order for any cover to be provided under
the policy a claim needs to meet its terms and conditions. In the first instance that means an
insured event, as defined in the policy, needs to have taken place.
Mr D was seeking to regain possession of his property so I dont think it was unreasonable
Alwyn considered the claim under the repossession section. That does provide cover for
advisers costs and expenses to pursue your legal rights to gain vacant possession of your
insured property from the tenant.
But that section also says you must have given the tenant the correct notices required to
obtain vacant possession of your insured property and you must have complied with
statutory legislation relating to the letting of your insured property.
I dont think its in dispute that, at the point he contacted Alwyn, Mr D hadnt served notices
on the occupiers of his policy; in fact he didnt accept those individuals were tenants at all. 
So I think Alwyn was right to conclude cover wasnt available under this section of the policy.
Mr D then queried whether cover could be provided under the nuisance and trespass section
of the policy as he believed the occupants of his property were squatting. That section of the
policy does cover advisers costs and expenses to pursue your legal rights to evict anyone
who is not your current or former tenant from your insured property. However, it also saysPlease note that in England, Wales and Scotland, squatting in a residential property is a
criminal offence and in such circumstances you should first contact the Police for
assistance.
Mr D hadnt done that when he made his claim. Again I dont think it was unreasonable of
Alwyn to say cover wouldnt be available under this section of the policy until hed done that.
However, it did say a police incident report would be required. I appreciate a police referral
could lead to an incident report being produced but that isnt a requirement of the policy
which simply refers to a policyholder having contacted the police for assistance.
In any event Mr D did contact the police and told Alwyn in mid December they hadnt
provided an incident number and advised him to speak to the immigration service (because
of concerns about the occupiers immigration status). Alwyn considered whether cover could
be provided without evidence of a police referral and agreed at the end of January to do so
(when further information was requested from Mr D to inform the assessment of his claims
prospects).
It's a requirement of the policy that for cover to be provided a claim must enjoy reasonable
prospects of success. And thats something which should be assessed by a qualified lawyer.
I think it was right Always asked the panel solicitor to do that. But I think at the point Mr D
contacted Alwyn in December hed met the requirements of the policy because hed
contacted the police for assistance and been told they couldnt help. So the claim should
have been accepted for assessment around that time rather than at the end of January.
I appreciate Mr D is unhappy with the outcome of the legal assessment that was then
produced and his further contact with the panel solicitor. But its clear the panel solicitor was
acting in his legal capacity in providing that advice and in the further discussions he had with
Mr D. So that isnt something I can consider. And I think the assessment is properly written
and reasoned and from someone qualified to provide it. I dont think Alwyn did anything
wrong in relying on that when concluding the policy terms as they relate to prospects of
success hadnt been met.
However, I agree it should have been clearer with Mr D about what options were open to him
if he wanted to challenge that assessment. Im not persuaded the policy terms do make the
position on that clear. In any case I think Alwyn should have drawn this to his attention at the
time. But that didnt prevent Mr D from challenging the assessment because he responded
explaining why he disagreed with it.
And I think it was appropriate of Alwyn to agree further funding for the panel solicitor to
review matters once Mr D provided the notices that had by then been issued. That didnt
change the panel solicitors opinion (meaning no cover was available under the terms of his
policy) but Alwyn nevertheless agreed additional funding for a discussion and review of
points he made prior to him regaining possession of his property.
Overall, I do think there have been some failings by Alwyn here. In particular Ive identified
some delay in moving matters forward between mid December and the end of January. I
also think Alwyn could have been clearer with Mr D as to who the various parties involved
with this claim were. I appreciate it did explain this when it wrote to him in July 2022. But I
think Mr Ds concerns about this were apparent at an earlier stage and an explanation with
that level of detail could have been provided sooner.
I appreciate that will have caused him inconvenience. But Im also mindful of the fact hes
received funding for some legal advice that went beyond what he was entitled to under the
policy. I also note that while Alwyn only gave a full explanation of the different responsibilities
of those involved in July 2022 more limited information on that had been provided earlier.Taking all of that into account I dont think the compensation of £500 our investigator
recommended is appropriate. I think a sum of £200 would better recognise the impact on
Mr D of what Alwyn got wrong.
Responses to my provisional decision
Alwyn didnt agree with my provisional decision in its entirety but didnt object to it. 
Mr D didnt agree. In summary he said the claims handlers, who Ill refer to as L, said on 
their complaint form we were able to consider their actions and he queried why that hadnt 
taken place. Hed requested the qualifications of those who were interpreting the policy from 
them but hadnt received a response. 
He thought Id confused the repossession clause of the tenancy with that relating to 
nuisance and trespass. The tenants had left the property in July. And those occupying the 
property had been given access to it by the guarantor so they couldnt be squatters. It was 
therefore incorrect of Alwyn to say he needed to contact the police in relation to this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ls complaints procedure says complaints can be made to our service. But we 
can only consider complaints about the activities set out in our rules. Claims handling would 
fall within the regulated activity of assisting in the administration and performance of a 
contract of insurance. But theres a specific exclusion from regulation where thats done on 
behalf of a relevant insurer (such as Alwyn). So we cant consider a complaint against the 
claims handler in their own right for what they have or havent done when carrying out that 
role. 
But, as I explained in my provisional decision, where the handling of a claim has been 
delegated by an insurer it remains responsible for the actions (or inactions) of the handler. 
And we would consider any failing on the part of the claims handler to be a failing by the 
insurer. I made clear in the summary of complaint section of my provisional decision that 
any references to Alwyn included its agents and claims handlers.  So in reviewing this 
complaint Ive considered the actions of both L and the panel solicitors when claims handling 
as thats something Alwyn is responsible for. 
Turning to the points Mr D has raised about his claim I appreciate his policy provides cover 
for repossession and separate cover for nuisance and trespass. But in his initial contact with 
Alwyn Mr D was seeking to regain possession of his property. As I said in my provisional 
decision I dont think it was unreasonable it initially considered the claim under that section.
In any event following further contact from Mr D it considered whether cover was available 
under the nuisance and trespass section a few days later. In relation to that Mr D says the 
occupants of the property couldnt have been squatters because the guarantor had given 
them permission to stay there. So there was no need for him to contact the police. 
I appreciate there was discussion over this issue after Mr D made his claim. But I dont think 
it was clear what the exact status of the occupants was at that point. In correspondence Mr 
D acknowledged that if they are squatting irrespective of the fact that the Guarantor is 
paying the rent, we also need to inform the Police. Given the uncertainty over the occupants 
status and, taking into account the policy wording, I dont think it was unreasonable of Alwyn 
to advise Mr D he should contact the police prior to cover being provided under this policy. But, as Ive said, I dont think a police incident report was required in order for that to be 
agreed. And Ive concluded that did cause a delay to the progress of Mr Ds claim. However, 
I explained in my provisional decision why I thought £200 was the right amount to recognise 
the impact of that failing on Mr D. His comments havent led me to change my thinking on 
this; he hasnt made any reference to the impact on him of what Alwyn got wrong. 
Finally, I can see Mr D did ask for the qualifications of those who gave him legal advice 
when dealing with his claim. Thats something the solicitors involved in the claim would be 
responsible for providing. So Alwyn should either have told Mr D that or passed on that 
question to the panel firm. Im not clear whether it did so. But as Mr D was also in direct 
contact with that firm I dont think hes lost out if it didnt do that. And while I appreciate Mr D 
also appears to have asked for the qualifications of Alwyns claims handlers I dont think 
theres any requirement on it to disclose the qualifications of staff who handle claims on its 
behalf. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Alwyn Insurance Company Limited will need to put 
things right by paying Mr D £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman