DRN-4194445
The complaint
Mr B complains that Chase is reporting his information to the credit reference agencies. 
What happened
Mr B has an account with Chase that has no credit facility. Earlier this year, Chase notified 
customers that it intended to report details of accounts held to the credit reference agencies, 
in line with its Privacy Policy. 
In February 2023 Mr B contacted Chase and explained he didnt want it to report his 
information to the credit reference agencies. Chase says it explained that only Mr Bs name, 
dates of when the account was opened or closed, details of any negative balances and how 
much is paid into the account each month would be reported. 
Mr B went on to raise a complaint and Chase issued a final response on 20 February 2023. 
Chase said its Privacy Policy allowed it to share some information about customers with the 
credit reference agencies. Chase added that it had taken the decision to start reporting 
information to the credit reference agencies as it is hoping to introduce lending services. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Bs complaint. They said Chase had acted in line 
with its Privacy Policy and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr B asked to appeal, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Mr Bs explained he wants to opt out of Chases decision to report accounts to the credit 
reference agencies. And I understand Chase changed the way it operates when it took the 
decision to start reporting accounts. But Chase has pointed to its Privacy Policy which says it 
can share customer information with credit reference agencies to check for credit worthiness 
and to prevent fraud and money laundering. I appreciate Mr Bs account doesnt currently 
have a borrowing facility. But the Privacy Policy doesnt make a distinction between 
accounts with a credit facility and those without. Im satisfied Chases Privacy Policy allows it 
to share information with third parties like the credit reference agencies. I havent been 
persuaded that Chases decision to do so is a mistake or unfair. 
When bringing his complaint, Mr B said Chases actions had caused him to be declined for a 
credit card. But we havent been sent any evidence to show that. And its not clear how the 
account Chase is reporting wouldve impacted a credit card application. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I havent been persuaded that Chase has made a mistake or 
acted unfairly by reporting his account to the credit reference agencies. As Im satisfied 
Chase dealt with Mr Bs case fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman