DRN-3988660
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to process a letter with instructions 
from him whilst he was incarcerated.
What happened
Mr R held a bank account with an overdraft facility with HSBC. In August 2016 HSBC 
received a letter purporting to be from Mr R informing it he was in prison and had been told 
his family were receiving calls from HSBC asking to speak to him. The letter explains Mr R 
has an overdraft left to pay on the account and asks that HSBC put the account on hold until 
Mr R is released and in a position to clear the debt. The letter was unsigned.
HSBC responded by writing to the address it had for Mr R on file stating as the letter was not 
signed it was unable to act upon its contents. Following this HSBC received a further two 
copies of this same letter  but signed. HSBC compared the signature on these letters with 
that held in its files and decided they didnt match and as such wrote to Mr R explaining that 
it still couldnt act upon the contents of the letter because of this. 
Around two months after this HSBC issued a pre-demand and final demand letter regarding 
the overdrawn balance on his account and as the overdraft wasnt repaid HSBC closed the 
account and sold the debt to a third party.
Mr R complained to HSBC that it failed to carry out his instructions regarding his overdraft 
and transferred his balance to a third party. HSBC says it couldnt process his instructions as 
the instructions either werent signed or not signed in accordance with the bank mandate.
Mr R was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Rs concerns and reached the conclusion that HSBC 
hadnt done anything wrong in not following the instructions contained in the letters. From 
what theyd seen there was enough information to suggest the signatures differed and it 
wasnt unreasonable for HSBC to reject the request.
Mr R disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr R has experienced and see if HSBC has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr R back in the position he wouldve been 
in if the mistakes hadnt happened. 
Mr R is unhappy HSBC failed to act on instructions outlined in a letter he says was from him. 
HSBC says the signature on the letters were inconsistent to what it held on record and that 
is why it was unable to act. In particular HSBC says the second half of the signature didnt 
match what it held. 
I accept that the letters may well have been signed by Mr T but HSBC has a duty to protect 
its customers from fraudulent activity and to do this it has to be satisfied of the identity of the 
person it is corresponding with and taking instructions from. And in Mr Ts case it wasnt. So 
I dont think HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably by not following instructions it received 
when it wasnt satisfied the instructions came from Mr T.
I havent been able to view the signature HSBC had on file due to protection around bank 
mandates on its systems, but I have seen two of the signed letters sent to HSBC - and 
although I dont purport to be an expert on this matter and accept signatures can and do 
change over time   I dont think the signatures on these letters match. So on this basis I 
dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to have doubts regarding who the letter and 
instructions were coming from.
And even if HSBC were satisfied that the instructions came from Mr R I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference to the overall outcome. Mr R had an outstanding overdraft debt 
with HSBC which HSBC was entitled to collect. HSBC was under no obligation to allow the 
debt to remain outstanding.  Following issuing pre and final demand notices to Mr R the debt 
wasnt settled  indeed Mr R was not going to be in a position to pay the debt for a number 
of years. So HSBC closed the account and sold the debt to a third party which I think is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
So it follows I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in not acting upon instructions it received 
regarding Mr Ts account when it wasnt satisfied the signature it held on record matched 
that of the person who signed the letter and I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman