DRN-4005564
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HDI Global Specialty SE avoided their home and buildings 
insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a home and buildings insurance policy with HDI Global Specialty SE 
online. 
An outbuilding went on fire and Mr and Mrs M made a claim to HDI. 
HDI said Mr and Mrs M had answered the question it asked about the age of the property 
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to cancel the policy as if it never existed and not meet their claim. 
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to us and our Investigator thought it shouldnt be 
upheld. They agreed Mr and Mrs M had made a careless qualifying misrepresentation which 
entitled HDI to take the actions it did. 
Mr and Mrs M doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. They say they answered HDIs questions to the best of their knowledge and dont 
accept they acted carelessly or set out to mislead HDI. They say a Surveyor who completed 
a report in 2014 said that some parts of the property were 200 years old - so around 1814 - 
but not all of it. They said they were unsure as to the age of the property as the deeds are 
held with the Land Registry. They say they made a best guess. 
Mr and Mrs M want HDI to meet their claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
HDI thinks Mr and Mrs M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when they answered the following question:
What year was your home built? 
The help note for this question read:
If you are unsure enter your best estimate. If you have a mortgage or your own 
home then this could be found in your title deeds or information provided from any 
recent surveys or when you bought the property.
Mr and Mrs M answered this question as: Year 1850. However, Mr and Mrs M told HDIs 
agent that in 2014 a Surveyor reported that at least part of the building was 200 years old - 
which meant Mr and Mrs M were aware that (part of) the property was built around 1814. 
Ive looked at the question asked and I think it was clear. And the answer Mr and Mrs M 
gave to this question was set out under the Statement of Fact sent by HDI to Mr and Mrs M 
alongside their policy documents. Mr and Mrs M were therefore given a further opportunity to 
check the information theyd provided and let HDI know if it wasnt correct. 
So I think Mr and Mrs M failed to take reasonable care when answering this question when 
they applied for the policy. 
HDI has provided underwriting evidence to show that if it had known Mr and Mrs Ms 
property was built before 1850 it wouldnt have offered a policy. This means Im satisfied Mr 
and Mrs Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
HDI has said Mr and Mrs Ms misrepresentation was careless because they were aware that 
(part of) the property was built around 200 years ago from the Surveyors report they 
mentioned in 2014. 
As Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Ms misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked 
at the actions HDI can take in accordance with CIDRA.
HDI avoided the policy, declined the claim because of this and refunded the premium Mr and 
Mrs M had already paid. 
Im satisfied HDI was entitled to avoid Mr and Mrs Ms policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  their policy never existed, HDI does not have to deal 
with their claim following the fire damage to an outbuilding. As CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing HDI to rely on it to avoid 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the length of time it took HDI to reach its 
decision and are unhappy with the questions and information asked of them. But I think HDI 
was entitled to make reasonable enquiries while investigating the claim. Each insurer has a 
different appetite for the risk it is prepared to underwrite. So when it became apparent that 
some of the information received on application was different to the information reported by 
Mr and Mrs M and HDIs agents, I think HDI was entitled to ask for more information to 
establish if it would be able to offer cover either on different terms or not at all. 
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the agent appointed by HDI to deal with their claim. They say if they had known this would happen, they wouldnt have chosen HDI as their insurer. 
It isnt unusual for an insurer to appoint a company to handle claims on its behalf. As the 
agent acted on behalf of HDI, HDI has dealt with the complaints Mr and Mrs M raised in 
relation to the handling of the claim. 
In light of everything Ive seen, I think HDI has acted reasonably and in line with CIDRA. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M. But this means Im not upholding their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman