DRN-3215960
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has handled his claim 
under his home emergency cover. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts about what happened arent in dispute so Ill focus on giving my reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons.
Theres no dispute that things didnt go as they should have. IPA say that the engineer tried 
to source the part and when they were unable to locate it, they said the part was obsolete. 
But IPA has now acknowledged that the part their engineer thought was obsolete wasnt and 
so it has reinstated the cover under the policy.
If IPA had made further efforts to locate the part, its likely it would have been able to source 
the part as Mr H was able to contact the manufacturer to confirm the part was available from 
stockists. I think in this case Mr H wouldnt have needed to take the policy out with the third 
party to carry out the repair to the boiler. So I think Mr H was inconvenienced and its right 
that he should be compensated for the additional time and costs hes incurred. 
Before IPA agreed to reimburse Mr H and reinstate the policy it asked Mr H to provide it 
proof that the parts used by the third party company were genuine. Whilst this was a further 
obstacle for Mr H, I dont think it was unreasonable as IPA were agreeing to cover the boiler 
in future so needed to be sure the parts used were in line with the manufacturers 
specifications. 
Once this information was confirmed IPA agreed to reimburse Mr H for the additional cost he 
incurred for the fixing of the boiler and for the third party policy he needed to take out for the 
repair  which I think was right. Its also offered to pay Mr H £120 compensation in 
recognition of the poor service and inconvenience caused to him. Mr H feels hes been 
further troubled by having to correct inaccuracies in IPAs final response, so he asked for a 
further £30 and then also a further £20 for IPA not responding to him after the final response 
was issues by IPA. Whats therefore left for me to consider is whether the compensation IPA 
has offered is proportionate to the inconvenience Mr H has suffered. 
Mr H says he felt discriminated against and victimised by IPA but having looked into the call 
notes from IPA I dont think that was its intention. The agents Mr H spoke to made notes of 
his concerns and had noted it would arrange call backs for Mr H the following day. I cant say 
for sure this wouldnt have been done by it, as often Mr H would call IPA back so I cant be 
certain that it wouldnt have called Mr H had he not called himself. 
I recognise Mr H feels the compensation already offered falls short of an acceptable amount. 
But we look at the overall impact a businesss mistake had on the complainant. Our awards 
are generally modest, and I feel the compensation offered by IPA sits with the kind of award 
I would ordinarily make in circumstances like this. So I wont be asking IPA to do anything 
further. 
Mr H has raised concerns regarding the way in which his complaint was handled by IPA. I 
appreciate that the service Mr H experienced couldve been better. But in this case, I can 
only consider IPAs activities that are covered by our service, i.e. the handling of the 
insurance claim; Im not allowed to consider unregulated matters beyond our remit, such as 
the overall quality of its complaint-handling.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is Inter Partner Assistance SA has already 
fairly resolved this complaint. I require it to pay Mr H £120 if it hasnt already done so within 
28 days of receiving his acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman