DRN-4049940
The complaint
Mr H complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc has settled his claim on his landlords 
insurance policy. 
Mr H has been represented by a third party throughout this complaint. However for ease of 
reading, all references to Mr H include the actions of his representative. 
What happened
Mr H had landlords insurance with AXA. In September 2021 he made a claim after 
discovering an escape of water at the property that had caused extensive damage. AXA 
accepted the claim  however work to repair the property didnt progress well. And in April 
2022 Mr H made a complaint to AXA. 
He subsequently brought the complaint to this service and In September 2022 it was upheld 
by our investigator. She said AXA should:
Scope and commence all works as a matter of urgency to avoid further delays, or 
offer a cash settlement based on the market value of the work. 
Pay loss of rent, council tax and utility bills at the property until it is marketable.
Pay a total of £750 compensation. 
Our investigators outcome was accepted by both sides. Shortly after this, AXAs contractor 
issued a scope of work for the remaining repairs. However due to the issues experienced so 
far, Mr H decided hed prefer to cash settle the work.
AXA agreed, however its contractors had already purchased some materials for the work so 
it said these would need to be delivered first. This was arranged however Mr H was unaware 
they were arriving, so the property was empty. The contractors left the materials outside the 
property and subsequently arranged for them to be picked up again.
Following this, AXA confirmed the amount of the cash settlement, deducting the relevant 
excess and amounts paid for work so far and the materials already purchased. It came to 
£7,031.78. It also paid for loss of rent, council tax and bills up until the policy limit of 12 
months.
Mr H was unhappy with this settlement. He said the amount wasnt enough to cover the cost 
of the work at market rates. And hed been unable to obtain his own quotes as the 
information about the required work provided by AXA was unclear, so contractors were 
unwilling to quote based on it. He also didnt think it was fair that AXA were capping the loss 
of rent at 12 months, as the work was still not complete. He made a complaint.
AXA said its offer for the cash settlement was at market rates and Mr H had the opportunity 
to provide his own quotes to prove otherwise and hadnt provided a full costed quote. It also 
maintained its decision to pay 12 months loss of rent as it said if its contractors had carried 
out the repairs, they would have been completed already. However it accepted it had caused 
some delays since Mr Hs last complaint and offered a total of £200 compensation to 
apologise for these. 
Unhappy with this, Mr H brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She said 
AXA should:
Arrange a suitable time for the purchased materials to be delivered to Mr H.
Both sides should inspect the materials and agree if they are still in good condition. 
A scope of works should be drawn up and Mr H should obtain a quotation based on 
this. AXA should cash settle based on this quotation.
Pay loss of rent, utility bills and council tax up to an agreed date when the work 
should be reasonably completed. 
Mr H accepted our investigators outcome, however AXA didnt. It said it had already 
provided a clear scope of works and a list of the materials already purchased and Mr H had 
failed to provide a quotation. And as it was Mr H who had delayed the completion of the 
work, it should have to pay additional loss of rent above the policy limit. It asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the last complaint, there has been very little progress with this claim. Ive looked at the 
correspondence between Mr H and AXA and I can see there have been delays on both 
sides. However I think AXA should have done more to move the claim forward. And provided 
clearer information in order for this to happen. In particular:
AXAs contractors have purchased materials, which means this needs to be deducted 
from the overall cash settlement. However as these were left outside for a period of time, 
and have since not been re-delivered to Mr H its not clear what condition the materials 
are in. And without this information it isnt possible to calculate how much should be 
reasonably deducted from the cash settlement. The fact the materials were left outside 
was due to poor communication from AXAs contractors, so I consider it responsible for 
delays related to this.
While AXA has provided a scope of works and a list of materials it has purchased, I dont 
consider this to be clear or straight forward. The list of materials provided is separate 
from the scope of works and is a series of links to items on websites. In order for Mr H to 
obtain a quote from elsewhere Id expect the scope of works to be an exhaustive list of 
all repairs and materials required, with an indication of where these have already been 
purchased. Or at the very least a clear list of materials, their specification and their cost 
in one place. Mr H has said this has made it harder for him to obtain a quote from other 
contractors, which has delayed things further. 
Due to these delays Mr H has not been able to agree a cash settlement and repair work 
hasnt began. While I appreciate there have also been delays on Mr Hs side, I think AXA 
should have done more to move things forward and assist Mr H in obtaining a suitable quote for the work. And because of this, I dont think it fair or reasonable that AXA has 
limited the loss of rent payments to 12 months in the circumstances.
Putting things right
As this claim has now been ongoing for nearly two years, the most important thing is that 
it is now resolved and claim repairs completed. Ive thought about the best way to ensure 
this and I agree with our investigators recommendations as to a way forward. I therefore 
require AXA to:
Deliver the purchased materials to Mr H at a pre-arranged time in order for him 
to inspect the condition and agree with AXA whether they are suitable for use.
Based on this, AXA should provide a clear scope of works, that indicates where 
materials are already purchased and suitable to use.
Mr H should then obtain a clearly costed quote for the scoped works and AXA 
should cash settle at this amount. Should there be any disagreement on whether 
the cost is reasonable, Mr H should obtain a further two quotes.
From the point the cash settlement is agreed, AXA should agree a reasonable 
time scale for the completion of the work from that date and pay loss of rent, 
utility bills and council tax up until the agreed reasonable completion date. 
Pay Mr H the £200 compensation it has offered, if it hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
carry out the directions as described under putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman