DRN-4209915
The complaint
Mr P complains that The On-Line Partnership Limited (On-Line) gave him unsuitable advice 
to transfer deferred defined benefits in an occupational pension scheme (DBOPS) into a 
personal pension plan (PPP). Causing him to suffer the loss of valuable guaranteed 
retirement benefits.
What happened
Mr P approached an adviser for On-Line about retirement planning advice in November 
2016. Mr P had been made aware that his long term employer would be closing down its 
factory and he would become redundant in June 2018. 
At the time of providing advice On-Line completed a fact-find and established that Mr P:
Was married with no financially dependent children
Was aged 55, about to reach 56
Worked full time earning around £38,000 plus part time earnings of £7,000 a year
Was married and his wife was earning around £6,000 a year
Had sufficient household income with a monthly surplus of £1,279 a month
Had a mortgage balance of £26,000 and no other debts
Had a defined contribution occupational pension scheme (DCOPS) with a fund 
around £78,000
Mr P had deferred rights in a DBOPS that had been closed by his employer in November 
2016. The DBOPS had a normal retirement age of 65 and had quoted a cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) around £330,000 guaranteed until February 2017. And On-Line 
understood that in June 2018 Mr P would receive a redundancy payment worth around 
£110,000. Mr P had decided to take his maximum tax free redundancy allowance of £30,000 
and opt for the remaining £80,000 to be made as a payment into his DCOPS.
On-Line described Mr Ps objectives with his DBOPS as being:
Improved benefits of a DC pension plan
Taking a maximum PCLS in the near future
Be able to take flexible income withdrawals in the near future
Have control over how his pension is invested
On-Line provided Mr P with a written recommendation dated 4 January 2017. It 
recommended that Mr P transfer his DBOPS to a new personal pension that would allow him 
to access his pension commencement lump sum (PCLS) when he needed it. It said it would 
allow Mr P to have control over how his pension was invested, have flexibility about the 
income that he took from the pension, and provide improved death benefits.
Mr P complained, via a representative, in June 2022. The complaint alleged that the advice 
to transfer this pension had been unsuitable as it was not in Mr Ps best interests.
On-Line looked into Mr Ps complaint. It explained its recommendation, repeating what it had 
said in the recommendation and reiterating that it thought it met Mr Ps objectives in 2016. It 
didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P disagreed and his representative brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered the circumstances at the time and was of the view that Mr Ps complaint should 
be upheld. She explained why she thought the transfer was likely to give Mr P lower overall 
benefits. And why she didnt think that other objectives or reasons made the transfer in 
Mr Ps best interests. 
On-Line failed to respond within the deadline and this case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision. Subsequently On-Line responded to explain that it didnt agree with 
our investigators view. But explained that it was prepared to do a loss calculation in order to 
resolve the complaint. It calculated a figure for Mr Ps overall loss in a way that was in line 
with our investigators view and made that offer to Mr P. 
At the time of considering this decision On-Lines offer has not been accepted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am proceeding to issue a final decision on this case in line with the rules that govern our 
service, namely DISP 3.5.4R(3). This rule explains that, once a provisional assessment has 
been provided to both parties setting out a time limit to respond, if either party indicates 
disagreement with the provisional assessment I should proceed to determination. In this 
instance, in spite of a resolution appearing close, Mr P has only accepted the provisional 
assessment after adding a condition of his own. And On-Line has clearly stated that it 
fundamentally disagrees that the case should be upheld. Even though it has made a 
settlement offer.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations, and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of ON-LINE's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, On-Line 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ps best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
On-Line obtained a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ps pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DBOPS (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr P was 55 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 65. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Ps benefits at age 65 was 9.1% if he took a full pension. This compares with the 
discount rate of 3.7% per year for around 9 years to retirement in this case. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 2%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 8%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr P's 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I think Mr P was unlikely to receive benefits of 
a materially lower overall value than the DBOPS at retirement, as a result of investing in line 
with his attitude to risk. 
So, in terms of trying to maximise the value of this DBOPS for Mr P, a transfer out of the 
DBOPS wasnt in Mr Ps best interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice, as On-Line has argued in this case. There might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income
Mr P was in a position where he was having to face life changing circumstances. He knew 
that he would be losing a job in June 2018 that paid him around £38,000. And he thought it 
was unlikely he would be able to get similarly paid work. So he was facing a severe change 
in his household income. And, given that he would be over 57 years by the time that 
happened, it is understandable that he would be looking at options to use his pensions to 
make up some of that shortfall. 
Mr P was in the fortunate position of have a DBOPS that would give him an income around 
£17,500 at age 65 after being revalued. And it could be taken early in 2018 to give an income around £9,500 a year index linked. In addition to this On-Line were advising with a 
clear understanding that Mr P would continue contributing to his DCOPS and it would likely 
have over £160,000 in it by that time.
On-Line ascertained that Mr P had a target income around £24,000. Which given the 
estimate they obtained for his household expenditure was perfectly reasonable. It knew that 
he intended to continue to work in his part time position earning £7,000 a year. And that he 
intended to find other work or to increase his existing part time position (estimate of up to 
£11,000 a year). He was also intending to use £26,000 of his tax free redundancy lump sum 
to pay off his mortgage. Thereby reducing his net annual expenditure by around £4,000. 
Overall, it was highly likely that Mr P would need to find in the region of £10,000 a year from 
his pensions to meet his income needs if he couldnt find work to cover that shortfall.
But Mr P was 57, so had less than eight years to fund in that way before he could access his 
DBOPS in full in the way it was intended. On-Lines analysis made it clear that was the most 
valuable way to use that particular pension. And it should only consider doing otherwise if 
this objective couldnt be met without it. But an existing defined contribution pension plan 
with a fund size around £160,000 was more than likely adequate to enable Mr P to 
drawdown flexibly from that for eight years without exhausting it. It would likely have meant 
transferring it to a PPP that would allow that type of access. But this option, as well as the 
option of taking a combination of that and the DBOPS benefits early appear to have been 
given little, if any, consideration. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr P. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to customers, and Mr P might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DBOPS to a PPP because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr P about 
what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement. And I dont think On-Line explored to what extent Mr P was prepared 
to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DBOPS were underplayed. Mr P was 
married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to 
his spouse if Mr P predeceased her. I dont think On-Line made the value of this benefit clear 
enough to Mr P. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. On-Line 
should not have encouraged Mr P to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through 
a PPP over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr P genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think On-Line shouldve instead explored life insurance. Ultimately, Mr P wanted to leave 
whatever remained of his pension to his spouse and children, which would be a lot less than 
the starting fund size if he lived a long life or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting 
point ought to have been to ask Mr P how much he would ideally like to leave to his family, 
and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely 
to be a lot cheaper to provide. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a PPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.Control over investments
I think Mr Ps desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr P was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on their own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr P. His pension fund was simply placed into an investment fund with no particular 
control being recommended other than the need for ongoing reviews of investment 
performance. That would not have been required had he remained in the DBOPS.  
Summary
I dont doubt that a large PCLS, flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a PPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr P. But On-Line wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr P might have thought was the best option for him. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr P needed and weigh all of Mr Ps options to recommend 
what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr P was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income that would exceed his income needs in 
retirement. By transferring, Mr P was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my 
view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
Mr P shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the DBOPS in order to make up his 
income shortfall in retirement when he would have a large enough DC pot to be able to do 
that already. And the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the 
guarantees associated with his DBOPS.
So, I think On-Line shouldve advised Mr P to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr P would've gone ahead anyway, against On-Line's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr P wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against On-Lines advice. I say this because Mr P was an 
inexperienced investor with a low/medium attitude to risk and this pension accounted for a 
significant part of Mr Ps retirement provision. So, if On-Line had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DBOPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think On-Line should compensate Mr P for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for On-Line to put Mr P, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
On-Line must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. For clarity, Mr P has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, On-Line should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts On-Lines offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, On-Line may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that customers 
would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ps likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require The On-Line 
Partnership Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
The On-Line Partnership Limited pays Mr P the balance.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on The On-Line 
Partnership Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
The On-Line Partnership Limited must pay the compensation within 60 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman