DRN-3294131
The complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr P took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1994. Mr P paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which did not attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work sick 
or lost his job.
I sent Mr P and Halifax a provisional decision on 5 January 2022, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill 
explain my reasons.
This sale was nearly three decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So its both understandable and unsurprising that neither side still had the original 
documents from the sale by the time of the complaint in 2018. Indeed, under data protection 
rules, Halifax were required to dispose of Mr Ps data rather than hold onto it for too long. So 
Ive had to assess things based on the limited information still available.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr P into having PPI. And 
I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with their sales process from the time. And this particular sale was too long ago for 
me to reasonably require Halifax to be able to produce evidence from the time to defend 
themselves now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled Mr P  
I have nothing which substantiates that. I think its more likely that Halifax followed a 
relatively normal sales process, where they offered a choice and Mr P chose PPI at the time.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr P, or not. They would have been 
held to a higher standard if they did. But even if I apply the higher standard, I still would not 
find that the policy had been mis-sold here. Thats because if Halifax recommended the PPI 
to Mr P, they would need to have checked it was right for him  and based on what Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time, I think it most likely was.
For example, it looks like Mr P was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. The PPI would have paid out on top of his work benefits and 
covered him for far longer. It also covered him for longer than the savings he told us about, 
and it meant he could effectively protect those savings and use them for other things, 
instead of potentially needing to sacrifice one asset to save another. Indeed, I understand 
that those savings were indeed earmarked for a specific purpose and may not have been 
available in an emergency. Its worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was Mr Ps sole 
responsibility and was a very significant undertaking. If hed fallen behind on the payments, 
he couldve lost his home. So in his situation, the PPI could have really been useful for Mr P 
in protecting his home and providing some peace of mind. 
Since we dont have full records of what was said, it is possible that the information Halifax 
gave Mr P about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But that, on its own, does not 
necessarily mean the policy was mis-sold. Instead, the question is whether I think better 
information was likely to have changed his mind. But as I said above, Mr P wasnt affected 
by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in 
case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would 
pay out in a claim. And while I understand it appeared on Mr Ps mortgage statements, it 
was a separate cost to the loan itself and did not run up interest. Further, as the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis, Mr P could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, 
I dont think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
2 February 2022. Halifax didnt provide any further evidence or arguments. Mr P sent in a 
response, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P questioned whether I had certain correspondence hed previously submitted, and he re-
sent some of that previous correspondence. To clarify, I did have all that correspondence, 
including the correspondence he re-sent, and I took account of all of it before writing the 
provisional decision above. When I referred to a lack of evidence, I was talking about the 
lack of evidence from when the PPI was sold in 1994, such as his mortgage application 
documents. I was not talking about a lack of documents from later years such as statements 
or complaint correspondence. I hope I can reassure Mr P that I took account of all his 
arguments, and Im grateful that he took the time to set them out clearly.
I also understand that Mr P is most dissatisfied with his claims management companies, and 
would like me to have taken more account of that. While I do understand where hes coming 
from, our service is impartial and I have to decide the case based on the facts at hand rather 
than based on any difficulties either side had with their representatives. So it would not 
normally be something Id be best placed to comment on. With that said, Im sorry to hear 
about the troubles Mr P had. He might still be able to make complaints about his claims 
management companies directly.
Aside from the above comments, neither side sent in any substantially new evidence or 
arguments. So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  
that I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  and for the same reasons as set out 
in my provisional decision above.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman