DRN-1869610
The complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide Building Society wont repay him for a withdrawal he tried to 
make at a cash machine. He says his account was debited but the money wasnt dispensed.
What happened
On 23 December 2019, Mr G tried to withdraw £100 at a cash machine. He explains the 
cash machine said it was processing and gave him back his card, but no money came out. 
Mr G says he checked his balance again and saw £100 had been debited. He contacted 
Nationwide to query it. He also contacted the bank who owned the cash machine to try and 
check CCTV, but says it was unhelpful.  
Nationwide looked into things and obtained technical evidence about the cash machine from 
its owner. It said it wasnt able to uphold Mr Gs complaint as the evidence suggested the 
cash machine had dispensed the money. 
Mr G was unhappy with Nationwides final response and referred his complaint to this 
service, where one of our investigators looked into it. He concluded the technical information 
hed seen about the cash machine and Mr Gs transaction indicated the cash had dispensed 
correctly. So he didnt think Nationwide needed to refund the £100.  
Mr G didnt agree. He said he didnt take the money. He asked for an ombudsman to review 
the matter afresh, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, so Ill explain why. 
The issue I need to consider is whether Nationwide should have debited Mr Gs account or 
not, by looking at all the available evidence to decide whether the cash machine properly 
dispensed the cash. This includes looking at the technical evidence from the machine and 
considering what Mr G says happened. 
The journal roll that logs each transaction made at the cash machine shows Mr G requested 
£100 at 10:02. It logs that he checked his balance first and that the withdrawal was 
completed successfully. There was a successful cash withdrawal three minutes before Mr G 
used the machine, and another four minutes afterwards. The journal roll shows that Mr G 
checked his balance again eight minutes after he first used the machine. The records Ive 
seen show four other people were able to use the machine before Mr G checked his balance 
again, so I think this suggests it was working correctly at that time. 
If Mr Gs money had been dispensed but not collected, it would have been taken back into 
the cash machine and held in the reject or purge cassette. Ive seen evidence that the cash 
machine was balanced at 3pm that day. This means that all of the cash from inside the 
machine was counted to see if there were any surplus funds inside. The balancing records 
that Ive seen dont show any cash discrepancies that might account for a missing £100.
The bank that owns the cash machine Mr G used no longer has any CCTV footage from the 
time. But I dont think CCTV would have provided conclusive evidence of whether or not 
cash was dispensed. I think it would have likely shown Mr G at the machine, which is not in 
dispute. I think its unlikely to have shown close up footage of the machine itself.  
I know Mr G will be disappointed and feel that this outcome is unfair. I dont doubt what Mr G 
has consistently told us about not taking the cash himself. He went back to the machine to 
check his balance and he enquired about CCTV, actions which further support that he didnt 
have the money. But Nationwide would only need to refund Mr G if there was an issue with 
the machine which meant the money wasnt dispensed at all. I dont need to decide whether 
Mr G took the money or not, just whether the money was dispensed and available for him to 
take. So whilst I am sorry that Mr G has lost out, Ive not seen sufficient evidence to 
persuade me this was down to an error with the cash machine or an error by Nationwide. 
For the reasons I have explained, I think its more likely than not that the cash machine was 
working correctly and dispensed the money. So I cant fairly ask Nationwide to refund Mr G. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman