DRN-3165716
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as G has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by Covid-19.
Mr S, a director of G, has brought the complaint on Gs behalf.
What happened
G held a business interruption insurance policy with Covea. It claimed on its policy after 
being impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Covea turned down Gs claim. They said while the policy provided cover for losses caused 
by a specified list of diseases, Covid-19 wasnt on that list. 
G complained to Covea. It said while the policy did have a specific definition for Disease, it 
didnt make commercial sense to limit the cover to the list of diseases within the definition. It 
said a more reasonable reading of the extension would be for it to cover any human 
infectious or contagious diseases but not including AIDS or AIDS-related conditions. G said 
it recognised that Covea didnt want to cover unknown diseases but said that many insurers 
had inadvertently done so. G added that the policy also used the capitalised word Disease 
elsewhere in the policy, where it didnt make sense to do so. G also said as the policy 
covered SARS, it should also cover Covid-19. 
As Covea refused to pay Gs claim, G brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Gs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Gs claim. 
G accepted some of our investigators findings but asked for an ombudsman to decide on 
whether the extension for infectious diseases should only apply to the diseases specified in 
the definition for Disease. G said the extension didnt make commercial sense when using 
the capitalised definition as the wording relating to AIDS or AIDS-related conditions wasnt 
necessary. G reiterated that Disease was also referenced in an exclusion for asbestos 
related diseases and therefore the wording is ambiguous. 
Covea said that AIDS and AIDS-related conditions were excluded where those conditions 
had made someone more susceptible to any of the diseases listed in the definition.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Gs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Covea have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Gs claim.
The relevant part of the infectious diseases extension says:
The insurance by this Section extends to include interruption of or 
interference with Your Business in consequence of closure of the Premises or 
part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any government or local 
authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) 
manifested by any person whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of 
the Premises
1)-4) are stated in the Schedule as Infectious Diseases
The business interruption section of the policy has a heading for Section Definitions. Under 
this the policy says:
These definitions apply to this Section wherever these words or phrases appear 
with an upper case letter except where otherwise stated
 
The policy says that Disease:
means any of the following diseases sustained by any person acute 
encephalitis acute infectious hepatitis acute meningitis acute poliomyelitis 
anthrax botulism brucellosis cholera diphtheria enteric fever (typhoid or 
paratyphoid) food poisoning haemolytic uraemic syndrome(HUS) infectious 
bloody diarrhoea invasive group A streptococcal disease legionellosis leprosy 
malaria measles meningococcal septicaemia mumps plague rabies rubella 
SARS scarlet fever smallpox tetanus tuberculosis typhus viral haemorrhagic
fever (VHP) whooping cough and yellow fever
I think its clear from the wording of the policy that Covea intended to only include the 
diseases listed within the definition. I say that because it clearly says that the definition is 
intended to be used where there is a capital letter. 
Covea has explained why AIDS and AIDS-related conditions are included in the extension 
and I think that makes commercial sense. And even if the defined list is used elsewhere in 
the policy, I dont think this is enough that the use of the definition in this extension would be 
considered ambiguous. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect 
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Gs policy is not like this  it 
sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording 
of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. 
I dont think it can reasonably be read as providing cover for any human infectious or 
contagious diseases and therefore I dont think this provides cover for Gs claim. I appreciate this isnt the answer G was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay Gs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman