DRN-3866446
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (RSI) and the 
exclusion theyve applied to her Horse Insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs R holds a Horse Insurance policy, underwritten by RSI. In May 2022, Mrs R noticed her 
horse, who Ill refer to as J, developed an issue with its left hind. So, she sought diagnosis 
and treatment from her vet, who Ill refer to as S. S diagnosed J with a torn ligament in its 
left hind and treated it for this injury. Mrs R then made a claim on her insurance policy to 
cover the costs of this.
RSI accepted the claim and covered the costs of treatment in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy Mrs R held. But RSI also applied exclusions for any claims relating to 
the left hind, tendons and ligaments of both hind limbs and bone diseases. Mrs R was 
unhappy with the application of these exclusions, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs R felt the exclusions for both the bone diseases and the tendons and ligaments in both 
hinds were excessive, and she provided a letter from S supporting her opinion. So, she 
wanted these exclusions to be removed before the policy renewed in February 2023.
RSI responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They took into account S expert 
opinion and based on this, agreed to remove the exclusion for bone diseases. But they 
thought the exclusion for any claims relating to tendon or ligament issues in either hind leg 
was applied correctly, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and their own 
underwriting criteria. They explained this is because any claim for tendon or ligament issues 
in either leg would be classed as a bilateral condition, and they referred to restrictions within 
the policy for any issue that fell under this definition. So, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything further. Mrs R remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained RSI were 
entitled to choose the amount of risk they wish to insure, and so are able to set their own 
underwriting criteria to cover this. And he was satisfied the exclusions placed on Mrs Rs 
policy fell in line with the policy terms, and the underwriting criteria. So, he didnt think RSI 
needed to do anything more. Our investigator accepted Mrs R was concerned about RSI 
declining any future claims that may arise on Js right hind, but our investigator explained 
were unable to consider any claim decline until that decline has actually happened. And he 
explained our service is unable to comment on a hypothetical scenario that hasnt happened 
as of yet. 
Mrs R didnt agree. She maintained her belief that the exclusion was applied unfairly and 
that this left her in a position where shed need to cover the costs of any treatment to an 
injury for Js right hind, which she thought was unfair and disproportionate considering the 
only existing injury was to Js left hind. And Mrs R commented that she believed the policy 
was mis-sold to her when it was taken out, as she wasnt made aware exactly how a bilateral 
condition would be determined or applied. As Mrs R didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs R. I appreciate Mrs R has 
taken out the insurance policy to help cover her financially in a situation where J requires 
medical treatment. So, I can understand why Mrs R would feel as though the exclusions RSI 
have applied are unfair, as they restrict the amount of cover Mrs R has moving forwards. 
And I recognise Mrs Rs logic surrounding the location of the treated injury, and why she and 
S feel as though the exclusion RSI have applied is excessive and unproportionate.
But RSI are entitled to determine the amount of risk they are willing to cover under an 
insurance policy they underwrite. And so, they are entitled to set their own underwriting 
criteria and within this, when certain exclusions will be applicable. Our service is unable to 
comment upon, or direct RSI to change, these underwriting criteria, or the accompanying 
exclusions as these form part of RSIs business processes set as part of their own 
commercial decisions. This would instead fall under the remit of the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
Our services role is to consider the actions RSI have taken when processing Mrs Rs claim 
and decide whether they have acted within the terms of the policy, and the underwriting 
criteria, when applying the exclusions. Not the actual fairness of the exclusions themselves.
In this case, RSI have already agreed to remove one exclusion applied initially relating to 
bone diseases and Im aware Mrs R is satisfied with this action. So, I wont be discussing 
this any further. 
Instead, Ive focused on the main area of dispute, which relates to the exclusion that 
excludes cover on all claims with respect to Tendons and Ligament of both Hind Limbs with 
effect from 18 February 2023.
I recognise Mrs R, and S, feel this is excessive and Ive considered all of their comments 
and testimony. But Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs R holds, which 
explains it is a time limited policy, meaning any new condition claimed for will only be 
covered for 12 months from the date J first showed signs or symptoms of the conditions he 
was treated for. And after this, any further treatment will be excluded.
And Ive seen RSIs underwriting criteria, which confirm that where a rear hind leg had 
suffered damage to a tendon or a ligament, an exclusion will be applied for any claim with 
respect to the tendons and the ligaments for both hind legs.
So, I dont think I can say RSI have acted outside of the terms and conditions of the policy 
when applying a 12-month limit on the current treatment period for Js left hind injury. And I 
dont think I can say the exclusion has been applied to the policy unfairly, as it falls within 
RSIs underwriting criteria. Because of this, I dont think RSI need to do anything more on 
this occasion.I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs R was hoping for. And I appreciate this now leaves 
Mrs R with a decision to make regarding any renewal of the policy, which is due in February 
2023. But as our investigator has already attempted to explain, our service is unable to 
comment on any potential declined claim that may arise in the future, should Mrs R continue 
with the policy she holds. If Mrs R was to make a claim to RSI in the future that was declined 
due to the exclusion that has been applied, Mrs R would be able to complain about this and 
bring this complaint to our service to consider if she remained unhappy.
Im unable to speculate on what the outcome of this complaint would be. But its only at this 
point that we would be able to consider, and comment upon, any application of an exclusion 
or definition of a bilateral condition.
I also recognise Mrs R has suggested the policy may have been mis-sold to her at the point 
of inception. This would be a separate complaint that Mrs R would need to raise with the 
business she spoke to when she purchased the policy, rather than RSI who are the 
underwriter.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint about Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman