DRN-3596727
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined his application for a loan.
What happened
Mr B complained to HSBC after the bank declined his loan application. Hes unhappy that he 
was pre-approved for the loan only for his application to be declined. Mr B thinks HSBC 
discriminated against him because of a previous individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) that 
he was subject to. 
HSBC explained that Mr B did not satisfy the banks lending criteria and that his application 
was subject to credit score checks. Mr B also raised concerns about the service he received 
and says that HSBC offered him £200 compensation to put this right.
Remaining unhappy, Mr B asked this service to review the matter. One of our investigators 
decided that HSBC had acted fairly. Mr B didnt agree as he says he was able to gain 
approval for another loan around the same time. Because Mr B didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im also of the opinion that HSBC acted fairly. I know Mr B will be 
disappointed to hear this, so Ill explain why.
As our investigator pointed out, its up to HSBC to decide how it provides its services to its 
customers and, as it is in this case, the criteria it applies when determining whether to 
approve a loan. This service doesnt have the power to ask HSBC to change its criteria or 
influence the banks application of it. However, what I can consider is whether HSBC treated 
Mr B fairly when it decided to decline his loan application.
HSBCs online literature explains that it has signed up to follow the voluntary rules set out 
under The Standards of Lending Practice. The essence of the rules encourages responsible 
lending and require HSBC to carry out the necessary checks before agreeing to lend money. 
It also requires that the bank conduct checks with credit reference agencies and inform its 
customers where such checks result in a declined application. 
Looking at the information provided by HSBC, it seems to me that Mr Bs loan application 
was declined following credit reference checks. Although its unclear exactly what 
information in Mr Bs credit reference check led to this, I can see that, following Mr Bs 
enquiries, HSBC pointed to credit reference checks as being the reason for the rejected 
application. So I think the bank acted fairly by following the rules it has voluntarily agreed to 
follow.
Mr B thinks a previous IVA was the actual cause and claims that HSBC has discriminated 
against him because of this. However, Ive looked at the banks application records and 
internal notes, and Ive seen nothing that suggests the cause of the failed application as 
being anything other than credit reference checks. Ive also listened to one of the calls during 
which HSBC had an internal conversation and this conversation also confirms the reason as 
credit reference checks. So I cant agree that HSBC declined Mr Bs application for anything 
other than failed credit reference checks. 
Mr B questions why he was pre-approved for the loan only for it to be declined. I empathise 
with Mr Bs frustrations, but I cant fairly say that HSBC has done something wrong by 
declining Mr Bs pre-approved application. Pre-approval for a loan means that the lender has 
indicated acceptance of the product as long as the application passes more detailed checks. 
In this instance, HSBC referred Mr Bs application to its underwriter who decided to decline 
the application following credit checks. Mr Bs credit reference checks didnt meet HSBCs 
lending criteria so it couldnt approve the loan. 
Mr B says he was able to obtain another loan around the same time. I cant say for certain 
why this was the case. Each lender has its own criteria so where one lender may approve a 
loan, another may not. But I dont think this is enough to say HSBC acted unfairly. 
Mr B thinks HSBC paid him £200 compensation because it knew it acted unfairly by 
declining his application. However, what Ive seen suggests the £200 was compensation the 
bank paid Mr B because it agreed it hadnt always provided him with the expected levels of 
service. Its unclear whether the compensation is for this complaint or for historic issues. 
Nevertheless, theres nothing Ive seen that makes me think that further compensation is 
appropriate here. 
In summary, I think HSBC acted fairly when it declined Mr Bs loan application. In my 
opinion, the bank responded reasonably when Mr B enquired as to why his application had 
failed and Im satisfied the reason HSBC gave him was accurate. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman