DRN-2775121
The complaint
Mr X complains about Nationwide Building Societys decision to close his accounts. He also 
complains about the service he received during a visit to a branch. He says the staff at the 
branch allowed another customer to enter ahead of him and feels hes been racially profiled.
What happened
Mr X held accounts with Nationwide and visited a branch to withdraw funds. Mr X says he 
had to queue outside as only a limited number of customers were allowed in at any given 
time. Mr X says a customer behind him was allowed to enter the branch before him. And, 
when he asked the member of staff the reason, they said that customer only wanted to use 
the ATM. Mr X says the member of staff told him they knew the reason for his visit. Mr X 
says he wasnt a regular customer at that branch so the member of staff couldnt have 
known what he was there for. So, he feels he was racially profiled. Mr X says he then walked 
into the branch and spoke with a member of staff before leaving. Nationwide, on the other 
hand, say Mr X pointed his finger at a member of staff, barged his way into the branch and 
was abusive towards the staff. They said his behaviour during the visit wasnt acceptable. 
Nationwide closed Mr Xs accounts. Nationwide said they were entitled to close his accounts 
with immediate effect but gave him one months notice to allow him time to find an 
alternative provider.
Mr X complained about how he was treated during his visit and the account closure. He said 
other customers behind him in the queue were allowed into the branch before him and he 
felt staff at the branch had racially profiled him. Nationwide responded and said, due to 
social distancing measures, the branch Mr X visited only allowed four customers in at any 
time. They said the customers who went ahead of Mr X were only there to use the ATM. 
And, because the staff knew what type of transaction Mr X regularly visits the branch to 
complete, they knew he would need to be served at the counter. They said the comment we 
know what youre here for was not said in a way to profile him. Nationwide apologised if Mr 
X felt offended but said no offence was intended. 
 
Mr X didnt feel Nationwide had carried out a fair investigation, he felt it was biased and 
didnt take any independent evidence into account. He said, as part of Nationwides 
investigation, the branch manager viewed the CCTV footage and gave an account of what it 
showed. But, the CCTV footage was now no longer available to be verified by someone 
independent. Mr X accepted he pointed his finger at a member of staff but says this was 
because he was angry. But he denies he was aggressive or abusive. Mr X also felt 
Nationwide had been dismissive of his concern about being racially profiled. He felt the 
investigation was insufficient so he referred his complaint to our service. 
  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr X. She thought Nationwide hadnt acted unfairly in 
closing Mr Xs accounts and hadnt acted unreasonably during Mr Xs visit to the branch. 
Mr X said the crux of his complaint, which the investigator hadnt taken on board, is that 
Nationwide is in denial about the racial and religious bias shown by members of their staff at 
the branch. As Mr X disagreed with the investigator, the matter has come to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr X will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Ill start off by saying I understand Mr X has concerns about what happened on the day he 
visited a branch and which has led to his complaint. But, its clear Mr X has broader and 
longer standing concerns about this particular Nationwide branch. So, Ill deal with both 
aspects of Mr Xs concerns, starting off with the events which happened on the day. 
the branch visit
Nationwide closed Mr Xs account because it says he was threatening or abusive towards its 
staff when he visited the branch on the day in question. Mr X says he was racially profiled 
when he visited the branch on the day in question. Both parties have explained why they 
think the way they do, so Ive looked at the evidence that both of them have provided.
Mr X says a member of staff said they knew what he was at the branch for. He feels this 
comment was made as a way of racially profiling him. Nationwide say the staff are aware Mr 
X regularly visits the branch to withdraw a large amount of money and the comment was 
made with reference to this. I can understand why this transaction would need to have taken 
place at the counter. And, I can see from system notes provided by Nationwide that Mr X 
has made similar transactions a few weeks before. And, on one of those transactions, he 
was served by the same member of staff he spoke with during his visit. Information provided 
by Nationwide also shows that Mr X had phoned in advance to make arrangements for the 
transaction. So, taking this all into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide 
to be aware of the purpose for Mr Xs visit. And, I dont think the comment made to him 
suggests staff were racially profiling him. I think it was said as an acknowledgment that Mr X 
would be needing the counter service.
Nationwide has provided a report completed by a member of staff at the branch on the day 
of the incident. The report says a member of staff was stood at the doors and managing the 
queue outside. The member of staff asked a customer what service she wanted and, when 
they said they wanted to use the ATM, the member of staff let her through. The report says 
Mr X then started shouting and complaining about the other customer being let in. And when 
the member of staff explained the queuing process, the report says Mr X continued to shout. 
The report says the police were passing and intervened and asked Mr X to calm down. The 
report says Mr X did initially calm down but when the police left he continued to shout and 
started swearing. The report goes on to say the branch manager then attended and Mr X, 
who was not wearing a mask, barged his way into the branch. Mr X did then wear his mask. 
The report says Mr X asked for the branch managers name, which he was given, and he 
then left.
Mr X says it was noisy outside so he wasnt able to hear what a member of staff said when 
she came outside to talk to customers in the queue. It appears the member of staff was 
asking if any customers wanted to use the ATM. 
Given that Mr X says he didnt hear what the member of staff said, its understandable he 
became concerned when seeing other customers stood behind him being allowed into the 
branch before him. I can also understand why Mr X felt he needed to raise his voice to be 
heard, and that he wasnt necessarily shouting, if as I accept it was noisy outside. But, I can 
also understand why the member of staff might have felt uncomfortable, and perhaps threatened, if a customer is raising their voice. Mr X says he pointed his finger at the 
member of staff who let the other customer in. He says he did so out of anger at seeing 
others being let in before him and being racially profiled, but he wasnt threatening or 
abusive. He says that this is proven by the fact that the police who were passing by and saw 
him point his finger didnt arrest him. Mr X also says he didnt barge into the branch. He says 
the door was open and he entered after letting other customers in front of him in the queue 
know what he was going to do. Mr X accepts he wasnt initially wearing a mask as he was 
stood outside but, once reminded by staff at the branch, he immediately did so. 
As part of their investigation, Nationwide took a statement from the branch manager and a 
member of staff who say Mr X was being abusive towards a staff member. Nationwide say, 
as part of their investigation into Mr Xs complaint, they tried to view the CCTV but theres a 
problem with the disk and they havent been able to establish why it wont play. While the 
CCTV isnt available, I can see they did initially ask the branch manager to view the CCTV 
and provide an account of what it shows. The branch manager views it and says the CCTV 
of the incident shows Mr X pushing a customer to let himself into the branch and is speaking 
with a member of staff and pointing his finger at her. It's unfortunate the CCTV isnt available 
as, although its unlikely to have provided any audio, it wouldve shown how Mr X entered 
the branch. So, while I cant comment on what the CCTV shows, I feel I have enough 
information from both sides to make findings. 
Its accepted by both parties that there was a queueing system in place outside the branch. 
And, its not disputed that other customers were allowed into the branch before Mr X even 
though he was ahead of them in the queue. I think Nationwides explanation for this is 
reasonable. They would, understandably, want to manage the queue in the most efficient 
way to avoid holding up customers who may not be requiring a counter operated service. As 
mentioned above, I can understand though why Mr X then, having not heard the member of 
staffs announcement about the customers wanting to use the ATM service, wanted to find 
out what was happening. But, I dont think walking in, when there were social distancing 
measures in place, was reasonable. Mr X couldve asked the staff member managing the 
doors what was happening without walking inside. I acknowledge that Mr X says he let 
customers in front of him know what he was going to do, but from Nationwides perspective, I 
can understand why they felt Mr X had barged in. The staff at Nationwide will have seen this 
as Mr X walking into the branch out of turn and ahead of other customers in front of him who 
also required a counter operated service.   
 
Mr X accepts he wasnt wearing a face mask when he first entered the branch. Thats 
understandable as Mr X was first stood outside where there is unlikely to have been any 
requirement to wear a mask. And I dont believe its unreasonable for a customer to 
sometimes forget to wear a mask when entering a building. Equally, given the events over 
the last year, I can understand why members of staff might feel nervous if a customer isnt 
wearing a mask. But theres no evidence Ive seen which suggests Mr X deliberately entered 
the branch without his mask. And I also think its important that Mr X did wear his mask as 
soon as he was reminded by staff at the branch. 
Mr X accepts he was pointing his finger  which he says was out of anger at seeing other 
customers behind him in the queue being let into the branch before him and being racially 
profiled. But he says he wasnt abusive or threatening. I understand people have different 
and varying degrees of tolerance when it comes to feeling threatened. 
So, I can understand why the member of staff felt threatened when Mr X was pointing his 
finger at her when asking about other customers being let into the branch. Mr X also says 
the police were walking passed and witnessed the finger pointing as well as being called by 
a member of staff. Mr X says the police asked him to step outside  which he did. The 
involvement of the police who witnessed the finger pointing - and decided to intervene - 
further persuades me that the member of staff did feel threatened. Ive seen a report prepared by the member of staff who says she was subject to abusive 
behaviour from Mr X. This report is prepared shortly after the incident so its a 
contemporaneous account of the events described by the member of staff. The further 
statements taken from the branch manager and the member of staff support the account 
given in the report. The branch manager has also given an account of what the CCTV 
shows. I do however take on board Mr Xs comment about why, if he had been abusive or 
threatening, the police didnt caution or arrest him. I accept that wasnt the case here and it 
appears, from what they had seen, the police didnt feel they needed to do any more than 
just intervene and speak to the parties. But, the report from staff at Nationwide says Mr Xs 
behaviour worsened after the police left. They say this is the point at which Mr X also started 
swearing. So, its clear from the information which has been provided here, which includes 
the finger pointing, Mr X raising his voice and walking into the branch, the member of staff 
felt threatened. Nationwides accounts terms and conditions say Nationwide can close an 
account immediately and without notice in exceptional circumstances. It lists events which 
fall within this and includes you have been threatening or abusive towards our staff. And, 
for this reason, I dont think Nationwides decision to close Mr Xs accounts was unfair. And, 
in doing so, they have acted in line with their terms and conditions. 
I can see Nationwide have followed a process here which is specific to incidents involving 
verbal and aggressive behaviour. This involved a report from a member of staff, taking 
statements and then forwarding the report to a senior colleague to make a decision on 
whether to close Mr Xs accounts. The decision has been made by a staff member 
independent to the event which occurred at the branch. So, I think Nationwide have followed 
a fair process when arriving at their decision. 
 
In view of the reasons for closing Mr Xs accounts, the terms and conditions allow 
Nationwide to take this step immediately and without notice. I can see that, from the point 
Nationwide first write to Mr X with their decision to close his accounts, his accounts arent 
closed until around two months later. Nationwide say this was to allow Mr X time to find an 
alternative provider. So, I think Nationwide have acted reasonably here.  
Mr Xs broader concerns
      
I can see Mr X feels very strongly about how members of staff at the branch treat certain 
customers. He says all the members of staff are of Punjabi origin and they speak in Punjabi 
which leaves Mr X concerned as he doesnt know if they are speaking about him. Mr X says 
he has witnessed racial discrimination and believes he has been treated differently based on 
factors such as religion and caste. And he says the staff at the branch profile customers 
based on factors such as race, name and skin colour. He says Nationwide are in denial 
about the racial bias being shown in many cities in the UK. 
Nationwide say the branch is part of a diverse community and doesnt discriminate against 
different cultures. They say the branch treats all customers equally and fairly and they see it 
as a positive to be able to speak with customers in their native tongue.   
Its clear that Mr Xs relationship with Nationwide was difficult before he visited the branch 
that day. Its clear he feels he isnt treated fairly by the staff at the branch he visited. 
I can understand why Mr X feels that hes been racially discriminated against. But based on 
the evidence Ive seen, for example, Mr X saying that staff often talk to other customers in 
Punjabi, I cant say thats whats happened here. I dont think thats unusual for a member of 
staff to speak to a customer in their native tongue  its often a helpful thing to do  or that it 
is evidence in itself of discrimination. And, I dont think the conversations are intended as a 
discourtesy to Mr X or any other customers. Its clear too that, following the visit, Mr Xs and 
Nationwides relationship has completely broken down.I am sorry to hear about Mr Xs experience and wish to reassure him that I have carefully 
considered his comments. But, for the reasons I have set out, I dont think Nationwide have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman