DRN-3153751
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot 
Lloyd (Ascot) to opt out of his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. He did 
this so he could transfer the value of it to a personal pension. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss. He cannot now re-join his 
DB scheme.
What happened
Mr S approached Ascot in September 2019 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
He has said he wanted to transfer as:
He wanted to retire early - which he thought he may not be able to do in the 
DB scheme.
He had concerns about the future of his employer, which couldve affected 
his pension.
He was aware the market was particularly favourable for transfer values.
His family could benefit from his fund value on his death.
Ascot gathered some information about Mr S pension arrangements and it initially 
informed him that, as he was under age 50, it wouldnt advise on a DB pension transfer.
But both sides have provided a series of text messages which cover this early contact. 
The most relevant section of these is below:
Mr S: Hi Ascot. I need to put my form into payroll tomorrow morning at the latest to pull out 
of the pension scheme for this months payroll for Oct 28. Can you foresee any problems in 
me doing this? Thanks.
Ascot: Hello Mr S, I have spoken to our technical team and they have confirmed that 
the transfer makes sense to them and there shouldn't be a problem. Ascot.
Mr S: Thanks Ascot. I'll go ahead and hand the form in to leave the pension scheme then.
Mr S: I'm officially out of the scheme now, I received email notification earlier. Are there 
any other funds I can consider, such as Scottish Widows? Thanks.
Ascot: With the investment choices we are Independent Advisers, our team regularly 
review the investment options on the market to ensure we are providing the best 
investment solution. At the next meeting we can go more in depth to the investment 
options.
Mr S and Ascot remained in contact and both parties worked towards giving Mr S advice in 
May 2020 when he reached age 50. In May 2020 Ascot issued a suitability report that 
advised him not to transfer the benefits out of his DB scheme.
Mr S then complained to Ascot as above.
Ascot has upheld Mr S complaint. It has said that it didnt provide him with enough 
warnings that the transfer might not be in his best interests. So, it offered to:
Pay the contributions that Mr S had lost out on as he was no longer a member of 
the scheme. It calculated this to be £34,145.52.
Put in place the life cover that Mr S would have had, if he had remained a 
current member of the scheme.
Pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused Mr S.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. An investigator wasnt initially aware of the 
text messages Ive referred to above, and so he didnt think we could consider this 
complaint. This is because it seemed like Mr S had made the decision to leave the 
scheme himself.
But after further evidence was provided about the contact between the two parties, he 
upheld the complaint. He said that whilst Ascot had not given full advice until after Mr S 
had opted out of his company scheme it was reasonable for him to think that, due to the 
content of the text messages, that leaving his occupational scheme was the right course of 
action. It was noted that Ascot had already agreed that it shouldve provided more 
information to Mr S, and the fact that it hadnt done so, had likely led to him leaving his DB 
scheme.
Our investigator recommended that, as far as possible, Ascot put Mr S back in the position 
he would be in had he not left his DB scheme. This was best done by calculating any loss 
he may have suffered using the guidance given under the pension review.
Ascot disagreed, it said the situation was complicated and that it would like an 
ombudsman to review it.
Mr S also doesnt fully agree. He thinks that the compensation of £300 that has been 
recommended for the distress and inconvenience should be much higher. He has outlined 
how this issue has caused him a great deal of stress and has impacted on both his and his 
wifes healthYour text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered 
all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account the 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator.
I dont think there is any real dispute that a DB transfer wasnt in Mr S best interests as 
Ascots suitability letter advised Mr S not to transfer. And it has accepted that is should 
also have done more to advise him to stay in his DB scheme whilst it completed the 
advice process.Overall, I agree Ascot shouldve advised Mr S to remain in his DB scheme, whilst it was in 
the process of giving advice. The texts message above show that it didnt do this, in fact it 
confirmed that a transfer made sense. This indicated to Mr S that Ascot would advise him 
to transfer his DB scheme benefits when it gave advice later on. And Mr S clearly acted on 
this communication and left his DB scheme.
Ive considered whether Mr S would've gone ahead anyway, against Ascots advice. Whilst 
Mr S clearly saw some advantages to transferring his DB pension benefits away, I dont 
think he had decided to do so when he was in contact with Ascot. And its also clear that he 
has taken on board what Ascot says in the suitability report and realised that his best 
course of action would have been to remain in his DB scheme. And, overall, he hasnt 
transferred. This is the clearest indication of what he wouldve done if Ascot had acted 
correctly.
Its difficult to say with certainty what Mr S wouldve done, or will do, in the future but 
Ascots mistake has undoubtedly put him in a worse position  and it should put things right 
by returning him to as close a position as he wouldve been if he hadnt opted out of his 
occupational scheme.
Whilst Ive thought about the offer Ascot has made to Mr S already I dont think this 
adequately compensates him for the loss he may have suffered. The regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9 says firms can use the guidance as the basis for loss calculations in opt out situations. 
I think this is most appropriate redress method. The pension review loss assessment will 
compare the benefits he would have received if he had remained in the scheme with those 
he will get now as he is no longer a member. These losses arent limited to the life cover 
benefits and the reduced employer contributions.
The compensation will likely take the form of a lump sum payment  either to Mr S directly 
 or into a personal pension he owns. It will essentially provide a sum of money that will 
enable him, as far as it is possible, to provide the benefits he would have had if he had 
remained in the scheme.
Mr S is concerned about the loss calculation as hes told us the underlying investments of 
the DB scheme will negatively affect the transfer value now compared to the value when 
he opted out. However, I think the regulators loss assumptions are the fairest way to put 
things right as it was designed for situations such as this. The value assigned to Mr S DB 
scheme benefits in the calculation is worked out on the estimated value/cost of providing 
his benefits and not the underlying investments within the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Ascot should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer and opt out / non joiner redress 
methodology.
Ascot, and our investigator, thought that £300 was reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this issue had caused Mr S. Ive seen that Mr S doesnt agree, 
and Ive noted why he feels this way. I can see that this issue has been very upsetting for 
Mr S. But the compensation Im awarding will, as far as possible, put him back in the 
position he would have been had the busines not made this error. So, hell be 
compensated for that. And its this error that has caused the distress and inconvenience. 
So, I dont think I should award any further compensation in this instance, over and above 
what the investigator said.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Ascot to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Ascots unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Ascot should attempt to have Mr S re-instated in his DB scheme. I understand Mr S has 
already been told hes unable to re-join. But Ascot Lloyd should speak with the scheme 
directly and ask whether it would be possible to reinstate Mr S. This would be the best 
way to ensure hes put back in the same position hed have been in had the mistake not 
been made.
If his DB scheme wont allow Mr S to re-join Ascot must undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress 
for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr S has not yet retired. But I can see that he has fairly well developed plans 
to do this at age 55. So, compensation should be based on a retirement age of 55.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr S acceptance of the decision.
Ascot may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr S 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr S 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible be 
paid into a pension plan Mr S has. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into a pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income 
tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date Ascot receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Ascot to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £355,000, plus anyinterest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £355,000, I may 
recommend that the Ascot pays the balance.
Ascot should also pay Mr S £300 for the distress and inconvenience this issue has 
caused him.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Ascot to pay Mr S the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £355,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £355,000, I would additionally require 
Ascot to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £355,000, I would only require Ascot to 
pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the sum of £355,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £355,000, I also recommend that  
Ascot pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Ascot.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman