DRN-4395952
The complaint
Ms Hs complaint relates to the sale of a mobile phone insurance policy by Telefonica UK 
Limited trading as O2.
What happened
Ms H says she found out on visiting an O2 store in March 2023 that she had been paying 
£6pm for an insurance policy covering a mobile phone. Ms H says the store representative 
told her that she had been paying for the insurance since 2010. Ms H says she did not know 
this had been added to her account and cancelled it immediately. 
Ms H complained to Telefonica and asked it to refund the payments shed made for the 
insurance, as she did not want it and didnt know shed been paying for it. I understand the 
policy was to cover a phone used by Ms Hs daughter and she says she has paid for her 
daughters phone to be repaired four times, which could have been covered by the policy if 
she had known about it.  
Telefonica does not agree that the policy premiums should be refunded. Telefonica says the 
policy was sold to Ms H in store at the same time as the phone in June 2020. It says there is 
no record of any previous policy. Telefonica says Ms H would have been asked at each 
stage of the digital sales process to accept the terms, the representative does not do it for 
the customer, and a copy of the agreement is sent to the customer by email and a paper 
copy can also be provided if required. 
Ms H brought her complaint to this service.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. Initially she did not think the complaint 
should be upheld but she reviewed her findings and concluded that Telefonica should refund 
Ms H all the premiums paid for the policy started in June 2020, with interest, and pay £100 
compensation. 
Ms H has accepted the Investigators assessment but Telefonica does not accept it. 
Telefonica says that the insurance documents would have been given to Ms H at the point of 
sale and also emailed to Ms H. It also says the insurance premium is clearly recorded on 
every bill and it is not unreasonable to expect the customer to take responsibility for this and 
monitor their own bills. Telefonica does not therefore agree it should refund the premiums 
but said it would consider paying the £100 compensation as a goodwill gesture only. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Those selling insurance are required to provide customers with clear information about any 
policy they are selling, which would include how long it will last for and the price. If the policy 
is being recommended, they would also have to try and ensure it was suitable for the 
customer.
It is for Telefonica to prove the sale was conducted properly and in accordance with the 
relevant regulations. 
As this policy was sold to Ms H at the same time as the phone it covered, it would appear it 
was recommended as being suitable for Ms Hs needs.
From what Telefonica has said, the order for the phone and insurance is placed on a 
handheld device, with the store representative entering the details on the device. Telefonica 
says the customer is asked to digitally tick a box on each page of the order, for it to proceed 
to the next page. 
I have seen the screenshots of the sales process provided by Telefonica. The first page says 
Gateway bundle with device plan with planyes
Gateway Insurance bundle  with plan  no.
This suggests to me that no insurance had been opted for. 
The second page says package details and gives details of the phone and things included 
with the phone contract, such as date limit and call limits and TV streaming subscription. 
The third page says:
Package details mobile insure £6.00 monthly add insurance. 
There is no signature or anything else from Ms H, on any of the pages, to confirm she 
consented to the insurance at £6pm. And I cant see any tick box either. 
It seems to me that for most customers their main focus at the time would have been the 
purchase of the phone and they may not read data on a screen carefully, especially if it is 
hurried and often the device is not handed over. However, even if Ms H was given the 
opportunity to read carefully each page of the order process, I do not think the information 
that would have been available to her is sufficiently clear, given the first page suggested that 
insurance was not included. 
Telefonica has not said that there would have been any verbal discussion of the insurance. 
Telefonica initially told us that the order confirmation would have been emailed to Ms H and 
she could have asked for a paper copy. It later said she would have been given a copy of the 
insurance agreement at the point of sale but this contradicts what it said initially and there is 
no persuasive evidence that anything was handed over to Ms H during the sale. 
I note Telefonica says the documents would have been emailed to Ms H later but it is not for 
a customer to point out an error by a business. And in any case, Telefonica has not provided 
a copy of what was sent to Ms H.  
Telefonica says it doesnt know what wed expect as evidence that it sold this properly. It is 
simple, it needs to evidence that it discussed the insurance with Ms H, informed her of the 
cost and main terms and obtained her consent to add it to her account. It has not provided 
sufficient evidence about the sale to establish this.  Ive also considered the screenshots of the text messages sent to Ms H from the airtime 
provider and the bills, which Telefonica says would have alerted Ms H to the existence of the 
insurance. They say: 
your airtime plan this month is £51.58 GBP and your Device Plan payment comes to 
13.21 GBP.
The Device Plan payment varies each month. There is then a link with each message to see 
the bill. The first page of the bills say: 
My tariffs 33.06
 My monthly extras 6.00
The monthly extras is the insurance but it does not say insurance on the first page.
On the next page there is more information about the tariff and then a list of what is included 
in the my monthly extras. It says: 
O2 travel    13 Jan 23- 12 Feb 23    0.00
10% Airtime Discount  13 Jan 23  12 Feb 23 0.00
O2 Insure Full Cover   13 Jan 23  12 Feb 23 6.00.
I do not agree that this is as clear as Telefonica says it is. The first page does not set out 
that the £6.00 charge is for insurance. In fact, it seems to me the insurance payment is 
obscured by calling it my monthly extras which implies it is for additional call charges, or 
part of the airtime plan. 
While the mention of O2 Insure Full Cover is clearer, its lack of prominence in the 
document means it is not sufficient to mean that Ms H should have realised she had been 
sold an insurance policy.  
Again, while there is some responsibility on consumers to check their bills, I do not think it is 
reasonable to place all responsibility on Ms H to have checked she was not being charged 
for something she did not want and did not expressly agree to. 
I have also taken account of the fact that Ms H cancelled the policy the same day she says 
she found out she had it; and that if she had known about it she could have made claims for 
her daughters phone.
Having considered everything, I do not think Ms H was provided with sufficiently clear 
information that she was paying for insurance policy, and there is not enough evidence that 
she consented to it in 2020. 
Ms H says she was told shes been paying for the insurance since 2010, however, there is 
no convincing evidence that she has been paying for it before the start of this contract in 
2020. I therefore consider Telefonica should refund the payments Ms H has made to this 
policy starting in June 2020, together with interest at our usual rate. I also consider that the 
sum of £100 compensation is appropriate for the trouble this matter has caused Ms H.My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Telefonica UK Limited trading as O2 and require it to do the 
following:
1. refund all premiums for this plan, together with interest at 8% simple per annum from 
the date Ms H made each payment to the date of reimbursement; and 
2. pay Ms H £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by this 
matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman