DRN-3989849
The complaint
Mr S complains about the charges Ald Automotive Limited (Ald) applied when he returned 
a car at the end of his hire agreement.
What happened
Mr S entered into a hire agreement in October 2017 for a term of 48 months, but he 
extended the agreement via a late hire arrangement for a further period of 12 months. He 
returned the car in December 2022. Mr S says hes unhappy with the charges that Ald 
applied when he returned the car. Mr S told us:
a third party collected the car on 19 December 2022, completed a vehicle appraisal 
and referenced that there were three areas of damage;
he agreed with two of the three areas of damage and settled the charges in respect 
of them the day that he received the invoice from Ald;
he disputes the third area of damage  near side door shut inner  because not only 
isnt the damage visible, but interior dents are not covered in the BVRLA guide; 
probably because this part of the car isnt visible when the door is closed;
Ald doesnt see retail consumers as anything other than a commodity and thats 
evidenced in the way it calculates payments due when a hire contract is extended.
Ald rejected Mr S complaint. It explained the role of its independent third-party collection 
agent and the role of the guidelines issued by the British Vehicle Renting Leasing 
Association (BVRLA).
Ald said that under the terms of Mr S agreement, he needed to return the vehicle with no 
damage outside of fair wear and tear. It explained that it had reviewed the photographs and 
the inspection report provided by its collection agent, and it was satisfied that the identified 
damage was clearly evidenced and was outside fair wear and tear.
It explained that the third-party collection agent had inspected the car against the industry 
standards set out in the BVRLA guidelines and identified issues in three areas:
1. Offside rear alloy wheel £50.00
2. Front bumper £65.00
3. Near side rear door shut inner £155.00
Ald acknowledged that Mr S had not disputed charges 1. and 2. and had made a payment in 
respect of them. In respect of charge 3., Ald said it had looked again at the evidence 
provided by the third-party and it was satisfied that multiple dents with paint damage were 
present and that the damage exceeded the guidelines set out by BVRLA.
Ald told Mr S that although hed returned the car with lower mileage than contracted, it isnt 
able to offset any end of contract charges against a vehicle returned under the agreed 
maximum mileage.
Although Mr S accepted some of the damage charges, he didnt accept the charge for the 
near side rear door shut inner and brought his complaint to this Service. He says he 
shouldnt have to pay the charge of £155 because the damage isnt visible in the appraisal 
images.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
he thought the charges applied were fair and he explained that the door shut inner is 
covered by the BVRLA guidelines for paintwork.
He explained hed reviewed the evidence from the inspection and was satisfied that the 
damage exceeded fair wear and tear, and that the charges applied by Ald were fair and were 
in accordance with its terms and conditions.
Mr S disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr S must maintain the bodywork and 
the exterior and interior of the Vehicle in good condition and that Ald will use the criteria 
set out in the definition of Fair Wear and Tear. So, Im satisfied that Mr S was responsible 
for returning the car in good condition, but the question is whether all the charges applied by 
Ald are fair and reasonable.
The terms and conditions define Fair Wear and Tear as the most recent British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and it says that Fair Wear and Tear 
will be interpreted in accordance with these guidelines. These guidelines are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, I 
have taken these into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable for Ald to charge 
Mr S. 
Ald claims three areas of damage that it deems to be outside fair wear and tear: 
1. Offside rear alloy wheel £50.00
2. Front bumper £65.00
3. Near side rear door shut inner £155.00
I dont need to make a finding in respect of items (1) and (2). This is because these 
damages arent in dispute and Mr S has already paid for them. My findings, therefore, relate 
to the one outstanding disputed charge  the charge for the door shut inner (3).
The relevant BVRLA guideline cover all areas of the cars paintwork, and includes the 
bodywork, bumpers and trim. The guideline says Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are 
acceptable provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not 
broken
Ive looked very carefully at the photographs and the video that Ald provided, and Im 
satisfied that the damage highlighted by it is indeed present; put simply, there are several 
dents in the paintwork on the door shut inner that show the paintwork to be damaged and 
broken.Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charge Ald asked Mr S to pay was applied fairly 
and in line with relevant industry guidance and that Ald has acted fairly in respect of the 
charge it applied.
Ive gone on to consider whether there was any other reason why it would be unfair for Ald to 
apply these charges. I understand that the car was returned with a lower-than-expected 
mileage. But Ive seen nothing in the agreement terms and conditions that would allow for 
Mr S to receive a discount for utilising less than the maximum permitted mileage and he had 
agreed, as had Ald, to the extension of the original hire agreement. So, I wouldnt expect Ald 
to offer Mr S any rebate for this.
I know that Mr S will be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint, but I hope he 
understands why Ive reached the conclusions that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman