DRN-4348159
The complaint
Miss M has complained about the way Nationwide Building Society dealt with her claim for 
money back in relation to dental work she paid for on her credit card. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont go over 
everything again in detail. But, in summary, in February 2022 Miss M tells us she made a 
payment of £3,951.42 on her Nationwide credit card for dental work, which I think was 
carried out abroad. It looks like she contacted Nationwide after the work was carried out 
because she was unhappy with it. I think she initially put in a claim for £500 and this was 
later increased to £1,765 when she said she found out it would cost more to put things right. 
Nationwide said it asked for further information from Miss M to support her claim such as a 
contract setting out what she paid with a breakdown, but it didnt receive everything it asked 
for. Due to the lack of supporting evidence, it wasnt able to give an outcome for the claim, 
but it offered Miss M £100 in relation to a delayed response. 
Miss M contacted the Financial Ombudsman to say she wanted to make a formal complaint 
against Nationwide for how it handled her claim. She gave us a handwritten note from a 
dentist saying the cost of replacing two defective implants was £1,600. We referred the 
complaint to Nationwide. 
Nationwide let us know the claim had been declined. It said there was no basis for it to settle 
the dispute. It said it didnt have a breakdown of the treatment received from the supplier. It 
said there was no way for it to know if the claim fell in the scope of section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, or if a breach of contract or misrepresentation occurred. As this 
didnt resolve things for Miss M, we continued to investigate the complaint. 
One of our investigators asked Miss M for evidence such as a point of sale invoice, or sales 
documentation showing the treatment agreed. He asked for any other evidence that might 
be available such as treatment plans or independent reports. I cant see we received 
anything else from Miss M. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt think hed seen enough evidence to 
demonstrate Nationwide had handled the claim unfairly. He thought the £100 compensation 
was fair for one of the delays. 
Miss M didnt agree. She sent another company of a letter from a dentist along with a 
receipt.
As things werent resolved the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
I contacted Miss M to ask again for further details such as where the procedure was carried 
out; a contract; whether thered been any report showing the work paid for wasnt done 
properly; evidence of what needs to be done to put things right; evidence of costs incurred 
and so on. Miss M said she had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Miss M and Nationwide that 
Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our 
powers allow me to do this. 
I also want to say Im very sorry to hear that Miss M is unhappy with the treatment she paid 
for. I cant imagine how she must feel.  
What I need to consider is whether Nationwide  as a provider of financial services  has 
acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Miss Ms request for getting her money 
back. Its important to note Nationwide isnt the supplier. Ive gone on to think about the 
specific card protections that are available. In situations like this, Nationwide can consider 
assessing a claim under section 75 or raising a chargeback. 
Section 75 is a statutory protection that enables Miss M to make a like claim against 
Nationwide for breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in 
respect of an agreement it had with her for the provision of goods or services. But there are 
certain conditions that need to be met for section 75 to apply. 
The chargeback process provides a way for a card issuer to ask for a payment to be 
refunded in certain circumstances. The chargeback process is subject to rules made by the 
relevant card scheme. Its not a guaranteed way of getting money back. 
While its good practice for a card issuer to attempt to chargeback where certain conditions 
are met and theres some prospect of success, there are grounds or dispute conditions set 
by the relevant card scheme that need to be considered. If these are not met, a chargeback 
is unlikely to succeed. And something going wrong with a merchant wont always lead to a 
successful claim. 
The problem in this case, is that Ive not been supplied sufficient evidence to conclude 
Nationwide acted unfairly by declining the claim, or by not pursuing the chargeback. Like 
Nationwide has pointed out, I dont think Ive seen enough to demonstrate the relevant 
conditions exist for a section 75 claim to be considered. But even if I were to be satisfied the 
relevant conditions existed, Ive not seen enough to show theres been a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation. Ive also not seen that something has gone wrong that might lead to a 
reasonable prospect of success for a chargeback. This is why I wrote to Miss M to explain a 
bit more about why the supporting evidence is important. Nationwide also asked for this 
information. 
Ive not been supplied a contract, or anything else, setting out what was agreed between 
Miss M and the supplier. So theres no way for me to know Miss M didnt receive what was 
agreed. Moreover, in the UK, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says certain terms are to 
be treated as included in consumer contracts. And it says services must be carried out with 
reasonable care and skill. Ive not been shown what the law says in the country Miss M had 
the treatment carried out. But even if I assume its the same as in the UK, Ive not been 
shown the treatment Miss M had wasnt carried out with reasonable care and skill. Taking all this together and bearing in mind Im considering how Nationwide dealt with the 
claim, due to the lack of supporting evidence, I dont have the grounds to say it acted unfairly 
by declining the claim, or by not pursuing the chargeback. 
Finally, Nationwide offered Miss M £100 for a delay when it didnt respond to her for just over 
a month. I imagine this must have been frustrating for her when she was trying to resolve 
matters. I think the compensation seems broadly fair in all the circumstances. 
Therefore, while I know shell be disappointed, Ive not seen enough to direct Nationwide to 
do more than its already done. 
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has offered Miss M £100 for the delays, and I think this is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
My decision is that, to the extent its not done so already, Nationwide Building Society should 
pay Miss M £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman