DRN-2247660
The complaint
 A company, which Ill refer to as W, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited failed to defend 
two chargebacks from a customer.
What happened
  W is a vehicle dealership. In 2014, W entered into a merchant processing agreement with 
WorldPay whereby WorldPay provided processing facilities to W for its card paying 
customers. 
In November 2018, a customer ordered a car from W costing over £53,000. In late 
November 2018, W confirmed the order saying the building of the car would likely be 
completed towards the mid/end of April 2019 but may run into May.
Ws customer made two initial payments, comprising £2,000 in early November 2018 using 
his Mastercard credit card and £6,000 in early December 2018 using his VISA debit card. 
Completion of the car was delayed, however, and the car wasnt ready for collection until 
mid-June 2019. In July 2019, Ws customer cancelled the order saying his circumstances 
had changed and he didnt need the car anymore. He asked for the return of the payments 
hed already made, but W declined to give him a refund. So, the customer raised a 
chargeback. When notifying W of the chargeback in August 2019, WorldPay confirmed it 
could attempt a defence and listed information W needed to provide for it to be able do so. 
In its defence to the chargeback, W explained that, as the car was specifically built for the 
customer, the process was to take a £2,000 payment when agreeing to the build, then a 
further £6,000 once the specification was agreed. A final payment would become due once 
the car is built and delivered. But WorldPay decided not to challenge the chargebacks. 
WorldPay felt the chargebacks were raised within the card scheme rules and didnt think a 
challenge was likely to succeed because W didnt deliver the car in April/May 2019 as 
promised and was unable to show that a contract existed between it and its customer 
confirming the payments were non-refundable. WorldPay felt, therefore, that in line with the 
terms and conditions of its agreement with W, it was entitled to recover from W the value of 
the transactions it had processed which had been returned as chargebacks.
 
W didnt agree with WorldPays conclusion and referred its complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ws complaint. Based on the evidence W provided to 
WorldPay, the investigator thought that WorldPay was able to determine whether or not a 
defence to the chargeback was likely to succeed. And since Ws customer never agreed that 
his payments were non-refundable and, furthermore, there were delays in the delivery of the 
car to the customer, WorldPay acted reasonably when it decided the chargebacks couldnt 
be defended.
 
W didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans review of its 
complaint. W has provided detailed submissions, but Ill summarise the essential elements:
The customer didnt say the delivery of the car was time critical. And, there was no 
firm delivery date that formed part of the contract between W and its customer.
When it seemed likely the delivery date would be later than initially anticipated, it 
contacted the customer who agreed that a later delivery in July was acceptable. The 
car was ready for delivery within the revised timeframe that was agreed.
WorldPay didnt properly take into account the reason the order was cancelled by its 
customer  in other words a change in his circumstances.
The car was purpose built for the customer and its understood in the motor trade, 
and supported by consumer law, that when buying a bespoke car, the deposit paid 
isnt refundable. 
The chargeback scheme states that chargebacks can only be made if the goods are 
damaged, not as described or havent been delivered. In this case the delivery time 
had been set by the customer in July. So, in the circumstances, the chargebacks 
werent justified. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find Im in broad agreement with the investigator for reasons Ill come to in 
a moment. But first, and especially in the context of this complaint, I think its important to 
explain the nature of the chargeback process.
Chargeback is a process under the relevant card scheme, set up to settle disputes between
card issuers and merchants. The schemes are voluntary, and the chargeback process
is run by the relevant card scheme, principally VISA and Mastercard. The card scheme also 
sets out the rules when a chargeback is allowed as well as what the requirements are for the 
parties involved. 
The rules of both schemes are relevant to this dispute as Ws customer used his VISA debit 
card and Mastercard credit card to make the two payments in November and December 
2018. 
I do understand that W feels very strongly about its case. Thats reflected in the detailed 
arguments as well as legal opinion it has provided as to why its customer wasnt entitled to 
claim the chargebacks. But its important to also note that it is not for this service to decide 
on any dispute between W and its customer. Ive not based my decision on the merits of any 
legal claim W may have against him. Ultimately, our service can only look at whether, in 
relation to the chargeback, WorldPay has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of 
this case. And to determine this Ive considered the following three questions:
Did Ws customer raise a legitimate chargeback within the rules of the relevant card 
schemes?  
Was WorldPay entitled to decide whether or not to defend the chargeback?
Did WorldPay act fairly when it decided it wouldnt defend the chargeback?
I consider each in turn. 
Did Ws customer raise a legitimate chargeback within the rules of the relevant card 
schemes?  
The Mastercard scheme rules provide that the conditions that can trigger a chargeback 
include:Chargeback Condition. The cardholder contacted the issuer claiming one of the 
following:
The merchant failed to disclose its refund policy at the time of the transaction and 
is unwilling to accept a return or cancellation of goods or services
And VISA has provisions for triggering a chargeback in circumstances where:
The Cardholder cancelled or returned merchandise,  
The Merchant did not process a credit 
The Merchant did not properly disclose or did disclose, but did not apply, a limited 
return or cancellation policy at the time of the Transaction.
I have seen the letter Ws customer wrote to his card issuer dated 30 July 2019, relating to 
both cards used in the purchase. In the letter he indicates that the car wasnt ready within 
the timescale that had been promised, and that he wasnt made aware of Ws cancellation 
policy, including that the payments already made were non-refundable. 
On the first point, although W has said that its customer agreed to the later delivery date, it 
has been unable to provide any firm evidence to demonstrate this agreement. 
On the second point, Im aware W believes its common in the motor trade for payments not 
to be returned in the event of cancellation of a bespoke order. But this was never explicitly 
communicated to its customer.  
Therefore, Im satisfied that Ws customer was entitled to raise a valid chargeback in 
accordance with both the VISA and Mastercard scheme rules.
Was WorldPay entitled to decide whether or not to challenge the chargeback? 
Ive also reviewed WorldPays terms and conditions relevant to chargebacks. They say:
6. Chargebacks and Assessments:
6.5 Subject to the Scheme Rules, neither we nor any Other Financial Institution shall 
be obliged to investigate the validity of any Chargeback or Assessment. You 
acknowledge and agree that any decision or determination of the relevant Card 
Scheme as to the validity and extent of any Chargeback and/or Assessment shall be 
final and binding.
Although the terms and conditions make clear WorldPay isnt obliged to defend a 
chargeback, we would nonetheless take the view that it would be reasonable for WorldPay 
to attempt to defend a chargeback if there was a reasonable chance the defence would be 
successful. 
Did WorldPay act fairly when it decided it wouldnt defend the chargeback?
It may be that Ws customer did agree a delayed delivery date for the car but, whether this is 
the case or not, W accepts that it didnt inform its customer about its refund policy at the time 
he agreed to buy the car, as required under the rules of both Mastercard and VISA. Bearing 
in mind this is a requirement under both card scheme rules, its difficult to see how WorldPay 
would have been able to mount a successful defence.
Therefore, in the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for WorldPay to take the 
view that a defence to the chargebacks was unlikely to be successful. For this reason, I do 
not think it acted unfairly when it decided not to attempt a defence on behalf of W. Furthermore, the terms and conditions of its agreement with W are clear that W will always 
be liable to pay chargeback claims if the chargeback conditions are met. I dont see anything 
in this case which persuades me those conditions werent met and therefore WorldPay 
hasnt acted unfairly by requiring W to reimburse the chargebacks. 
While I recognise this will come as a disappointment to W, I find it was reasonable for 
WorldPay not to defend the chargeback claims. And, accordingly, Im not upholding this 
complaint
 
My final decision
  For the reasons given above, my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman