DRN-2170376
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. His wife is also involved in his complaint.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr A under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Finance that he electronically signed in October 2019. He returned the car to the dealer 
because he said that it was faulty but the dealer couldnt find any faults. Mr A said that he 
wanted to reject the car and he complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance. The car has been 
with the dealer since January 2020.
Mercedes-Benz Finance didnt uphold his complaint. It said that the dealer had been unable 
to find a fault with the car and it hadnt been provided with any reason to believe that the car 
wasnt performing as it should. It said that it was unable to agree that the car that was 
supplied to Mr A was of unsatisfactory quality. Mr A wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that he 
couldnt definitively state that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mr A and that Mercedes-Benz Finance had offered to have an independent inspection of the 
car but it was moved from the dealer before the inspection could be conducted.
Mrs As wife, on his behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
She says, in summary, that she took the car to another manufacturers dealer in July 2020 
and it:
adjusted the headlights to MOT spec;
updated the fuel pump control unit;
replaced the aux battery; and 
replaced a gearbox sensor.
She says that Mr A refuses to pay more money for a car that wasnt safe to drive, the car 
isnt in use and shes paying for it to be in storage. She also says that Mr A has received a 
default notice from Mercedes-Benz Finance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mercedes-Benz Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr A - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr A was about four months old, had been driven for 
2,800 miles and had a price of £23,135.28;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car was returned to the dealer soon after it was supplied to Mr A because he said 
that there were faults with it and he complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance;
it said that the car was inspected by the dealer in January 2020 and it said: "There 
was no fault codes present and operation was normal with normal take up of drive. 
Driven the car 25 miles with no defects apparent. There were two software update 
available, which we carried out for power train and engine ECU. We could not fault 
the car to see if these updates made any difference to the customers concern";
the dealer also said: "We checked the head light aim in line with MOT standards and 
this was all ok and could not be adjusted any higher. We have not had any reports of 
this fault before as a known concern"; 
Mercedes-Benz Finance arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent 
expert but the car had been taken from the dealer by Mr A or his wife before the 
inspection could take place;
Mr As wife arranged for another manufacturers dealer to inspect the car in July 2020 
and it provided an estimate showing that it had adjusted the cars headlights 
because they were too low, updated the fuel pump control unit and replaced the aux 
battery and a gearbox sensor;
that was nine months after the car had been supplied to Mr A and Im not persuaded 
that its enough to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr A;
the car had been inspected by the dealer  which is a manufacturers dealer - soon 
after it was supplied to Mr A but no faults could be found;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr A  and it seems that some issues 
with the car have now been repaired and that there are no issues with it;
Mr A has stopped paying for the car so his account with Mercedes-Benz Finance is in 
arrears and it has sent him a default notice  Mr A had agreed to make 48 monthly 
payments of £300.56 for the car and I dont consider that he was entitled to stop 
making those payments in these circumstances;
I sympathise with Mr A for the issues that hes experienced and the position in which 
he now finds himself, but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that Mercedes-Benz Finance has acted incorrectly in the way that its dealt with the 
arrears on his account; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Mercedes-Benz Finance 
to allow Mr A to reject the car, to remove any information that its recorded on his 
credit file, to pay him any compensation or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
I suggest that Mr A contacts Mercedes-Benz Finance to try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement for the amount that he owes to it. If he doesnt do so, I consider it to 
be likely that Mercedes-Benz Finance will take further action to recover that amount from him, to the extent that its legally entitled to do so. If Mr A is experiencing financial difficulties, 
he should explain those difficulties to Mercedes-Benz Finance. Its required to respond to 
any financial difficulties that hes experiencing positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman