DRN-3701347
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd have irresponsibly lent to him.
Mr M is represented by a solicitors firm in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill
refer to any submission and comments they have made as being made by Mr M himself.
What happened
Mr M was accepted for a NewDay branded credit card in May 2018 with a £1,200 credit limit.
This was increased to £1,950 in January 2019 and later increased to £3,450 in March 2020.
Mr M says that NewDay irresponsibly lent to him and he made a complaint to them.
NewDay did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said that they had considered the
information he included on his application, such as being employed with a gross annual
salary of £32,600 and having unsecured debt of £7,500. They also said that external
information available to them showed that he had previously defaulted on an arrangement
with a balance of £4,300, which was 56 months prior to his application, he had a public
record which was 48 months prior to his application, no payday loans and no accounts in
arrears.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. She said
that the opening lending checks were proportionate, and a £1,200 credit limit was
reasonable. But NewDay should not have increased the credit limit for the account based on
how Mr M was managing his NewDay account, incurring overlimit charges and withdrawing
cash from the account several times.
Our investigator said NewDay should refund the fees and charges Mr M had incurred over
£1,200 and use this to reduce any outstanding balance. She said if this creates a positive
balance then this amount should be paid back to Mr M, with 8% simple interest added and
any adverse information should be removed from his credit file.
NewDay asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They said they believed
sufficient checks had been completed and there was nothing to indicate that Mr M would
struggle with the credit card repayments.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Mr M, NewDay needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for him. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the
consumer's personal circumstances.
Initial credit limit - £1,200
Ive looked at what checks NewDay said they did when initially approving Mr Ms application.
Ill address the credit limit increases later on. NewDay said they looked at information
provided by credit reference agencies and information that Mr M had provided before
approving his application.
Im satisfied that the account opening checks were proportionate. I say this as the
information showed that Mr M had external borrowings of £7,500 when he was approved for
the account. Mr M had declared an annual income of £32,600 at the time, so it would appear
that the initial credit limit may be affordable for Mr M as the initial credit limit was £1,200.
But thats not all NewDays data showed. The data also showed that Mr M had adverse
credit data in the form of a default and a public record. So NewDay would have been aware
that Mr M had previously not maintained his agreements. But the data also showed he had
no accounts in arrears, no repayment plans and that the adverse credit data was four years
prior to his application.
It may help to explain here that, while information like a default on someones credit file may
often mean theyre not granted further credit  they dont automatically mean that a lender
wont offer borrowing. Here, NewDay considered the information that Mr M had on his credit
history and still made a decision to lend which, in the circumstances, I think was reasonable.
January 2019 credit limit increase - £1,200 to £1,950
Ive looked at the information that NewDay had available to them when they increased Mr
Ms credit limit to £1,950. They increased the credit limit by £750, which was an increase of
over 50%. NewDay had gathered a lot of information about how Mr M had used his account
since he opened the account and they had gathered a lot of external data from credit
reference agencies which showed how Mr M was managing his external finances also. So, I
would need to see that the data NewDay had available to them would support the increase.
But Im not persuaded that it did and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at NewDays information about Mr Ms account since it was opened. The data
appears to show that Mr M had made several transactions which incurred a cash transaction
fee. While Mr M would be free to use his account as he wishes and this alone may not be
any sign of financial difficulty, it could be masking an affordability issue. I say this as it is not
clear why Mr M would choose to incur £36 in cash transaction charges over a four month
period if he had money in his bank account which wouldnt have cost him to use.
But this is not all that NewDays data showed. It shows that the balance of Mr Ms account
had exceeded his credit limit over consecutive months and within four months prior to his
credit limit rising by over 50%. So this could also indicate that Mr M was not managing his
finances well as this was not an isolated instance. Mr M paid roughly the minimum payment
to his account. So a combination of these factors may indicate that Mr M may not be able to
sustain a higher credit limit.
So, I would have expected NewDay, as part of a proportionate check, based on the reasons
Ive given, to ask for further information from Mr M to ensure that a £1,950 credit limit would
be affordable and sustainable for him. They could have done this by contacting Mr M to
discuss his personal circumstances at the time, or they could have asked for information
about his income and outgoings, such as requesting his recent bank statements, to see
whether the credit limit would be sustainable and affordable for Mr M.So I asked Mr M if he could provide his bank statements for the time period before the credit
limit was increased, as Im persuaded this is something that NewDay could have done as
part of a proportionate check to see if the credit limit increase would be affordable for him
and to ensure he could make payments in a sustainable manner based on the reasons Ive
already mentioned. But Mr M did not respond to any requests to provide me with his bank
statements.
While Ive considered the accounts and total balances which have defaulted, Ive also
considered that a customers past behaviour would not always be indicative of how they may
manage an account in the future. Although Mr M had a history of not maintaining some of his
credit agreements, I cant say that this factor alone makes a lending decision automatically
unaffordable or unsustainable.
So on the face of it, it does look like NewDay shouldve made further checks here. But as
my role is impartial, that means I have to be fair to both sides and although Im satisfied that
NewDay shouldve done more checks here  I cant say whether that wouldve revealed
further information which means they wouldnt have lent. So as Mr M hasnt provided me
with his bank statements, that means that it wouldnt be fair for me to say that NewDay
shouldnt have lent here, because I dont know what further checks would reveal.
March 2020 credit limit increase - £1,950 to £3,450
Ive looked at the information that NewDay had available to them when they increased Mr
Ms credit limit to £3,450. They increased the credit limit by £1,500, which was nearly double
the previous credit limit and nearly three times the original credit limit. NewDay had gathered
a lot of information of how Mr M had used his account since the last credit limit increase 14
months earlier. And they had gathered a lot of external data from credit reference agencies
which showed how Mr M was managing his external finances also. So, I would need to see
that the data NewDay had available to them would support the increase. But Im not
persuaded that it did and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at NewDays information about Mr Ms account since the credit limit was last
increased. The data appears to show that Mr M had made several transactions - totalling
£1,171.99 which incurred cash transaction fees. In addition, he also asked NewDay for a
money transfer of £260 in November 2019, only four months prior to the credit limit increase.
As Ive previously mentioned, while Mr M would be free to use his account as he wishes and
this alone may not be any sign of financial difficulty, it could be masking an affordability
issue. I say this as it is not clear why Mr M would choose to incur £49.20 in cash transaction
charges since his last credit limit increase if he had money in his bank account which
wouldnt have cost him to use.
But this is not all that NewDays data showed. It shows that Mr M had made a late payment
four months prior to his credit limit increase. This may be an oversight on Mr Ms part in
forgetting to make a payment on time, so I cant say this factor alone would be a sole reason
why NewDay should not have increased his credit limit. But there are other factors which Im
persuaded that may have showed signs that he was suffering financial difficulty which
NewDay should have been aware of and Ill explain why.
Mr M appears to have borrowed to pay off the majority of his balance in June 2019. I say this
as the total payments he made that month were £1,928.01. But based on his net income, it
would be extremely unlikely that this payment was as a result of his disposable income,
especially given that Mr M had previously only managed to pay around the minimum
payment. So while he didnt owe NewDay anything in August 2019, he had utilised the
majority of credit on his NewDay credit card again in the month prior to NewDay almost
doubling his credit limit, as NewDays data showed he owed them £1,631.63 in February2020.
NewDays data also shows some concerning information. From the data they sent us, there
appears to be a financial difficulty marker showing from June 2019-August 2019. But thats
not all. Their data shows that on a separate account, that since the last credit increase, he
was up to five months in arrears on the account. The data also shows he was in arrears on
another account in November 2019 by one month. This would indicate that Mr M was not
able to service all of his financial commitments for a prolonged period of time and Im not
persuaded that these issues can be described as an oversight.
Ive noticed that Mr M had brought these accounts in order before his credit limit was
increased to £3,450, however, Im persuaded that based on several factors such as how Mr
M managed his account, frequently incurring cash charges, generally only making roughly
the monthly payment, appearing to borrow money to pay a lump sum off his credit card, only
to utilise the majority of credit again, the late payment, the financial difficulty markers in
between the last credit limit increase and this credit limit increase, the one month in arrears
on an external account and the five months in arrears on his other NewDay account since
his last credit limit increase, that NewDay should not have nearly doubled Mr Ms credit limit
here as these factors show that a higher credit limit may not be affordable for Mr M, or that
he would not be able to repay the outstanding balance over a sustainable period of time
without borrowing further. So it follows I intend to ask NewDay to put things right for Mr M.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr M did not respond to the provisional decision. NewDay said they had no further 
information to add to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said I intend to uphold the complaint in part and I intend to ask 
NewDay Ltd to do the following:
NewDay should arrange to transfer any debt back to themselves if it has been passed to a
debt recovery agent.
NewDay should also rework the account, refunding all interest and charges that have been
applied to any balances above £1,950. If the rework results in a credit balance, this should
be refunded to Mr M along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of
each overpayment to the date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse
information recorded from January 2019 regarding this account from Mr Ms credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,950, NewDay should arrange
an affordable repayment plan with Mr M for the remaining amount. Once Mr M has cleared
the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded from January 2019 in relation to
the account should be removed from his credit file. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for 
the reasons given previously.
*If NewDay considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct incometax from that interest, they should tell Mr M how much theyve taken off. They should also
give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. NewDay Ltd should settle the complaint in line with the 
instructions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman