DRN-2157543
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs K complain about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with them following a request 
to convert Mr Ss account into a joint account.
What happened
Mr S says he asked HSBC to convert his foreign currency account into a joint account with 
Mrs K and was given an appointment at a branch on 24 August 2019. He says they attended 
but were told the currency account couldnt be converted to a joint account. Mr S says he 
ought to have told that when he called but was told his current account could be made a joint 
account. He says he was told Mrs K would receive an account card within 7 days, but she 
didnt and so he spoke to HSBC about this in September 2019. Mr S says he didnt receive a 
call back but eventually in November 2019 received £150 compensation and a complaint 
response.
Mr S and Mrs K say in summary that HSBC needs to improve its customer service and that 
he had a health scare at the time and questions what would have happened to his money in 
the event of a problem. He also says he had a large amount of money in his accounts and 
will move that money if not compensated appropriately.
HSBC says Mr S didnt tell it which account he wished to become joint when he called but 
accepts it made mistakes dealing with his request. It has apologised and paid £150 
compensation.
Mr S and Mrs K brought their complaint to us and says the £150 compensation is not 
comparable to the money in the account. Our investigator thought overall the compensation 
offer was fair and reasonable and accepted HSBC had provided poor service. The 
investigator didnt think HSBC had misled Mr S on the call but accepted it could have asked 
him which account he wished to become joint.
Mr S and Mrs K dont accept that view and say there have been other problems caused by 
HSBC but would accept £500 compensation.
HSBC has said it will increase its compensation offer to £250 in total.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that HSBC has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer. I realise Mr S and Mrs K will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly they feel about what took place.
There is no question here that HSBC made a mistake about what ought to have been a 
straightforward matter of adding Mrs K to Mr Ss account. I dont know why it took so long for 
that to take place and I accept Mr S and Mrs K were caused inconvenience and distress and 
would have spent some time trying to find out what was happening. I appreciate Mr S was 
concerned about his health and how the delay would affect Mrs Ks ability to access money 
in the event of a problem. 
Im satisfied that HSBC has fairly apologised for what took place. I dont think Mr S or Mrs K 
suffered any financial loss as a result of the delay, and so I think overall HSBCs offer of 
£250 compensation is fair and reasonable. Im satisfied it fairly reflects the level of its 
mistake and the length of time it took for the account to be opened. I also think it fairly takes 
into account the level of stress and inconvenience Mr S and Mrs K were caused.
I appreciate that Mr S says that award is not comparable to the amount of money he holds in 
his accounts. But I dont think that is relevant and I cant take into account what may have 
taken place about Mrs K not being able to access money, when that event didnt take place.
I also appreciate that Mr S complains about other HSBC mistakes and that he says it needs 
to improve its customer service. I make clear that I can only consider this complaint and not 
the other matters Mr S refers to. And we are not HSBCs regulator and so its not our role to 
tell HSBC to, for example, improve its customer service levels.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC has made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation. I 
appreciate Mr S and Mrs K may not wish to accept that offer and so I will leave it to them to 
decide. I also make clear that I dont think HSBC misled Mr S during the telephone call as I 
dont think he said which account he wished to convert to a joint account. And in any event, I 
think that even if Mr S had been told the foreign currency account couldnt be made a joint 
account then he would have still have needed to attend a branch for the other account to 
become a joint account.
Putting things right
HSBC has offered to increase its compensation offer to £250 which ,for the reasons I have 
explained, I find to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of a further 
£100 compensation. Mr S and Mrs Ks acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman