DRN-3920352
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with Society of Lloyds (SoL) handling of a claim made under their 
commercial insurance policy.
Mrs B is represented by Mr B, so for ease Ill refer to Mr B directly. And any reference to SoL 
includes its agents.
 
What happened
Mrs B owns a property which she rents out. In 2015 the property next to Mrs Bs underwent 
development which caused damage to Mrs Bs property. The works next door and 
subsequent claim lasted for several years. SoL covered the cost of the repairs to Mrs Bs 
property. The central issue in dispute here is what level of contribution it should make to the 
rental income Mr B says was lost.
Unhappy with SoLs handling of the claim, Mr B complained. In the final response issued in 
April 2021, SoL acknowledged the claim was complex. It involved a number of different 
issues and different parties. It noted it had already paid a loss of rent payment totalling 
£121,529.27. It said the policy provided loss of rent for up to three years and, as it had made 
payments between November 2014 and December 2017, it had acted in line with the policy 
terms. 
It was not prepared to increase the payment. It also said while there were a number of 
periods of inactivity, none were the sole responsibility of one party. SoL offered £500 in 
respect of the additional inconvenience experienced as a result of the length of the claim.
Mr B referred the complaint to this service. He said the delays in carrying out the repairs are 
the reason they lost their rental income for more than three years. The complaint was 
considered by one of our investigators who concluded SoL didnt need to increase the loss 
of rent payment. As Mr B didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
In January 2023, I issued a provisional decision. My findings were:
The central issue here is the lost rental income, and whether SoL has acted fairly and in line
with the policy terms in respect of the payment it made in respect of this. For ease, Ive
included the relevant rental income policy term below:
What is not covered  Continued
1. Loss or rent for more than three years
Mr B thinks a considerable reason for the delay lies with the company appointed following
the tender process. He says the company in question provided a low quote, and the costs
increased significantly. He also says works to underpin the property could have begun
several months before they did  as indicated might happen. SoL acknowledges there were
moments of inactivity at the property. But I think its important to clarify here this was a
complex claim involving a number of different parties. So, what might appear to be a period
of inactivity isnt the same as an avoidable delay caused by SoL.
The central issue I need to decide is if SoL was responsible for any avoidable delays during
the claim. And if I conclude it was responsible, I need to decide if it is reasonable SoL should
pay an increased loss of rent payment. I think its helpful to clarify here, that just because the
claim is such a long running one, does not automatically mean SoL is required to pay over
and above what is set out and required in the above policy term.
Mr B has set out his thoughts on delays and in doing so, he divided the claim up into three
separate sections. Our investigator shared Mr Bs thoughts on this with SoL in the same
format. For ease for both sides, Ive continued this in my findings.
2014 - 2017
SoL acknowledges there were some periods of inactivity between June 2014 and December
2017 but says these related to a number of occasions where the owners of the neighbouring
property said they were going to instruct contractors. Given the location of the property in the
middle of a terrace, it doesnt seem unreasonable SoL gave the owners opportunities to
begin their works as any works needed to be carried out (given their nature involved
excavation works to the foundations) were likely to impact Mrs Bs property. It doesnt seem
unreasonable in the circumstances attempts were made at coordinating efforts to try and
prevent further avoidable damage or having to carry out a repair that might then need to be
revisited at a later date.
I also dont think it was unreasonable investigations were carried out into the cause of the
subsidence. As the file shows, while a large contributing factor to the subsidence was the
excavation works carried out next door, the conservatory was also found to be subsiding and
the cause of this was likely to be the nearby vegetation. It was important proper
investigations were carried out to identify the cause of subsidence to ensure any repairs
carried out were effective and lasting. While I can see there were times early in the claim
where there may not have been much action in progressing the claim, Im satisfied it was
appropriate for these checks to have been carried out.
Mr B raised concerns about the tenants, questioning if they could have been asked to move
out sooner. But I think its important here to focus on the information that was available at the
time decisions were made. And while it might be Mr Bs perception now is that not renewing 
the tenancy might have been the more straightforward approach, Im not persuaded this
would have been the case. Ultimately, even though concessions had to be made in terms of
a reduced rent, I havent seen anything that suggests the property was uninhabitable before
the tenants were given notice to leave the property in September 2017. Thats not to say I
dont recognise things were very difficult for Mrs B and the tenants, I do, and I can see there
was sometimes conflicting information given to Mr and Mrs B. However, Im not persuaded
SoL acted unfairly in concluding the tenants needed to move out when they did.
Broadly speaking, from what Ive seen, correspondence was sent and responded to quickly.
But with such a complicated matter and so many factors in hand, the claim would always
have taken a long time to progress. In addition to this, there were a number of factors
beyond the control of Mr B, Mrs B and SoL. Examples of these include the developers who
owned the property next door going into receivership and it being sold. These matters
delayed the claim, but I dont see that SoL could have been responsible for these delays.
Overall, Im not persuaded there were any avoidable delays during the early stages of the
claim.
2018However, Mr B says he was told in January 2018 that there would be a two-month delay in
serving the party wall notices. SoL says the notices were served in January 2018. Its
perhaps not surprising given the complexity of the claim that the party wall agreement
contributed to the time taken to resolve the claim. Ive considered Mr Bs argument there
were only two contractors on site when the underpinning works could have been progressed.
Mr B says this was essentially a delay for the majority of 2018 that could have been avoided.
However, Im more persuaded by SoLs response here that the number of operatives were
selected due to the size of the site  and the argument that as it was a smaller site, two
operatives could carry out the excavations and pour concrete easily in the space.
It was clear from reviewing the various correspondence that SoL was aware Mr and Mrs B
relied on the rental income, and all parties involved were aware at this point the policy didnt
provide cover for it. With this in mind, I think its reasonable all parties involved in the claim
would be working towards the same objective of getting the repairs completed so the
property could be rented out again. However, while it could be easy to point at various
moments of inactivity, I find myself more persuaded the cause of these were as a result of
the number of parties involved in the claim and a reflection of the complex nature, rather
than any avoidable delay on SoLs part.
2019 onwards
Ive considered Mr Bs comments no works were carried out from early December 2018 until
March 2019. When asked, SoL acknowledged this seemed correct, but couldnt see any
reason for the delay. It follows Im not persuaded this part of the claim progressed without
avoidable delay. Ill set out below how I think this should be put right.
Mr B says there were also a number of delays in the repairs being completed. He said works
should have been completed by July 2019, but it wasnt until November 2019 that the
property was able to be let out again.
SoLs position here is that not all of the repairs the property needed could have been
identified at the outset. For example, it says the leak in the upstairs ensuite couldnt have
been identified earlier nor could the damp in the downstairs cupboard have been identified
earlier. And, in the round, I think its not unusual that with repairs of the scale carried out on 
Mrs Bs property, there would be some occasions where unexpected works would be
identified.
For example, I note there was some discussion about whether all damage caused by works
by the neighbouring property or whether some of it was caused by subsidence. And some of
the works that needed to be carried out (such as to the ensuite and the leak in the dormer)
couldnt have been identified before the works got underway. This isnt to take away how
long the repairs took, but rather that Im more persuaded these were repairs that needed to
be carried out and the extra time they added was unavoidable. So, Im not minded to
conclude SoL was responsible for these delays.
The issue for me to decide is whether or not SoL should make a payment to Mrs B that is
over and above the requirements set out in the policy. On balance, Im more persuaded than
not that there was a delay in SoLs handling of the claim, and this occurred towards the end
of 2018 and into the spring of 2019. Im intending to require SoL to compensate Mrs B for
this.
Im aware SoL offered Mrs B £500 in its final response, for the additional inconvenience for
the length of the claim. But it seems to me had SoL really thought nothing more could be
done, then a payment wouldnt have been solely due to the length of time the claim took to
be resolved. I can see this has been a significantly difficult period for Mrs B, and I consider
SoL contributed to this with the delays identified at the end of 2018 and into early 2019.However, I think its important to note SoL isnt required to make a payment for the distress
and inconvenience of having to make the claim, but for the impact of their actions on Mrs B. I
consider the compensation payment should be increased to £750 (less anything thats
already been paid) to recognise the worry and distress experienced as a result of the
avoidable delay between late 2018 and March 2019. It was clear Mrs B was reliant on the
rental income, so every delay had a significant impact on her, and this timeframe could have
been reduced.
SoL said it received my provisional decision but didnt have any further comments to make.
Mr B responded and, in summary, said:
He thinks Ive too easily accepted the position put forward by SoL on a number of 
areas including the information about the tenants remaining in the property, the 
tender process, and the number of contractors carrying out works.
More weight should be given to the delay in early 2018, and Mr B believes this could 
and should have been avoided.
Mr B feels that Ive also disregarded the later end of the timeframe when repairs took 
much longer than initially indicated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate my provisional decision didnt require SoL to put things right to the extent Mr B 
and Mrs B hoped for. I want to offer both sides some assurances Ive carefully considered 
the further points in response to my provisional decision, and this final decision again 
focuses on those issues I consider most relevant. And in considering whats happened, I 
think its helpful to set out Im not disputing this claim took a long time to resolve. What I 
need to be clear about is whether any of the time taken was as a result of an avoidable delay 
SoL is responsible for. As I said in my provisional decision, its important to be mindful that 
periods of what seem to be inactivity are not the same as avoidable delays. 
Mr B expressed concern about the tender process and the selection of the contractor who 
submitted the lowest quote. His concern stems from the fact the costs escalated significantly 
beyond the original tender. 
Ive reconsidered Mr Bs concerns and the comments made by the loss adjuster appointed 
by SoL. In considering all three tenders, the loss adjuster specifically commented there 
werent any obvious errors with the tender submitted by the contractor appointed. The loss 
adjuster suggested the tender might be lower because the contactor was already familiar 
with the property. I acknowledge the repair costs ended up costing significantly more than 
outlined in the original tender. But I havent seen anything to suggest there was anything 
unusual about why the tender was awarded to the contractor. 
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen the loss adjuster considered the differences in 
tender costs and the reason why one was lower than the others. That being said, I can see 
how this looks to Mr B and Mrs B, especially against what we now know is the history of the 
claim. But I dont share their concerns about how or why the tender was awarded to the 
contractor in question.  
Ill turn now to Mr Bs concerns about the tenants and the information given about whether 
they should have been asked to vacate the property sooner. Its accepted by all involved the 
condition of the house worsened during the first three years of the claim. However, what I havent seen is evidence the house was uninhabitable before the point the tenants were 
asked to leave. 
I can understand the frustrations Mr B says he and Mrs B experienced as a result of 
renewing the tenancy agreement and relatively soon after asking the tenants to leave. But 
based on the information provided by both sides, Im not persuaded if the tenants vacated 
the property sooner, it would automatically have resulted in the repairs being carried out 
more quickly. 
I say because of the complexity of this claim and the number of different parties involved. 
And all of those different parties undertook a different function. I appreciate there were 
complications that contributed to the time taken to the later repairs. Im referring here to the 
leak and repair to the dormer. But there were also events that occurred that were beyond 
anyones control  such as the property developer for the house next door going into 
receivership. 
However, I think it is understandable SoL wanted to understand what the repairs to the 
property next door would look like before moving into the space of underpinning the 
property. Given the properties are part of a terrace there was a strong possibility of repairs 
impacting the other property or needing to be revisited if they were carried out on the other 
property. 
I dont dispute there were times when repairs could potentially have gone ahead.  However, I 
consider the explanation SoL provided for moving at the pace they did to be reasonable, and 
persuasive based on the information SoL had available to it at that particular time. 
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable, I also need to consider what the intention of 
the policy was. And this was to cover a potential loss of rental income for up to three years. 
The policy provided this. I consider there was a very clear timeframe when a period of 
inactivity was as a result of an avoidable delay SoL was responsible for. As a result, SoL 
should compensate Mrs B for this for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. 
This avoidable delay impacted Mrs B and added to the worry and distress she experienced 
as a result of the long running claim. I still consider £750 is a reasonable amount to 
compensate her for this, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require Society of Lloyds to:
Pay Mrs B an additional payment for the loss of rental income between 
December 2018 and March 2019.
To pay Mrs B £750 (less any compensation already paid) for the distress and 
inconvenience experienced as a result of the avoidable delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman