DRN-4350969
The complaint
Mr H complains that Evelyn Partners Financial Planning Limited (Evelyn) delayed selling the 
assets within his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) which he says then led to a reduction 
in the value of his pension following a sharp fall in the market. He would like Evelyn to pay 
the transfer value it would have paid had the transfer completed within normal timescales.
What happened
Mr H held a SIPP with a provider which was managed by Tilney  now known as Evelyn. In 
January 2022 Mr H wanted to transfer his SIPP to a new provider and instructed the new 
provider accordingly. The request was acknowledged by the existing provider who then sent 
two instruction emails to Evelyn. 
One of the emails was to Mr Hs registered adviser  although he no longer worked for 
Evelyn at that time. It said as you have requested a cash transfer I would be grateful if you 
could arrange for the investments in the xxx SIPP to be liquidated and confirm back to us 
once this has been processed, so that we can continue with the SIPP transfer  
The other email was sent to Evelyns transfer team and said please accept this email as 
instruction to close the above account. This email must not be treated as a disinvestment 
request. As a cash transfer has been requested the adviser/client will be in touch shortly 
regarding disinvestment. 
Evelyn discussed internally how the sale should proceed especially as some of the 
investments ought not to be sold, but it said it would wait for further instruction from the 
provider. 
On 17 February 2022 the existing provider requested an update from the registered adviser 
to its earlier request for the liquidation of assets within Mr Hs SIPP.  On the same day 
Evelyn told the existing SIPP provider that there were some structured products within the 
portfolio that the investment manager would rather not sell although they werent illiquid and 
were tradeable. 
A further update request about the liquidation and account closure was sent by the existing 
SIPP provider on 28 February and following this email the portfolio was sold on 3 March with 
an expected settlement date of 11 March 2022. There was a short delay to allow a monthly 
income to be paid and the transfer was eventually completed by CHAPS on 28 March 2022.
But Mr H thought the transfer should have completed earlier and that his instruction from 
8 February 2022 had been ignored. And because the markets had fallen during this process, 
he said hed suffered a significant financial loss. 
Evelyn didnt uphold the complaint. It said it didnt believe it had caused any delays to the 
selling of any assets within Mr Hs SIPP.  It referenced an email that its administration team 
had received from the ceding provider which stated, this email must not be treated as a 
disinvestment request. It also referred to the disinvestment emails which were sent to an 
adviser who no longer worked for Evelyn. It said the existing provider should have received 
an email rejection notification but in any case, it didnt believe it was responsible for any 
loss Mr H had suffered.
 
Mr H remained unhappy with this outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld, 
making the following points in support of his assessment:
The email Evelyn received from the existing SIPP provider on 8 February 2022 didnt, 
in his view, constitute a disinvestment instruction. 
The email address that the provider used for the registered adviser had been closed 
since 2019. Evelyn was unaware the email had been sent so was unable to respond 
or disinvest the assets instead. The email Evelyns transfer out desk received stated 
it wasnt to be treated as a disinvestment instruction.   
Evelyn only became aware of the disinvestment instruction on 28 February 2022. It 
completed the process within a further 10 working days which he thought was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr H didnt accept this outcome making the following points in response:
It wasnt correct that Evelyn wasnt asked to sell the assets on 8 February 2022. An 
instruction was sent on this date.
An email sent by his new adviser to Evelyn on 15 February 2022 asked if it had 
received a request to sell down the assets  and if not, it said it should now do so.  
It wasnt correct that Evelyn was only made aware of the instruction to disinvest on 
28 February 2022 as there was evidence to show that Evelyn responded to the 
existing provider regarding the structured products on 17 February 2022. This 
showed Evelyn had understood the original disinvestment instruction. 
It was unlikely that Evelyn wouldnt have received all the emails the SIPP provider 
sent on 8 February 2022. Either it received all the emails or none of them. 
An organisation the size of Evelyn should have had a better system in place for off 
boarding leaving employees  particularly to ensure future emails are redirected 
appropriately. 
On the basis of the emails that were sent  and received - Evelyn ought to have been 
aware of the disinvestment instruction by 15 February at the latest and then ought to 
have been able to sell the assets by 22 February 2022. 
The investigator then asked Evelyn for its comments on the email from Mr Hs new adviser 
dated 15 February 2022. Evelyn said it did receive a letter of authority from the new adviser 
in 2021 but this only allowed it to access information about Mr Hs investments and didnt 
allow it to instruct the sale of any assets. So it didnt think it ought to have acted upon receipt 
of that email.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view, but Mr H said the instruction to sell 
had come from him on 8 February 2022 and it was Evelyns decision not to comply with that 
request at the earliest possible opportunity. He also pointed out that when Evelyn did sell the 
assets it seemed to be without an instruction from anybody.
So the complaint was referred to an ombudsman and passed to me to review.
My provisional decisionIn my provisional decision I said the complaint should be upheld. I made the following points 
in support of my findings:
I thought the instruction of 8 February 2022 was a clear advance notice to close the 
account  but not until Evelyn had been made aware that the assets in the fund had 
been disinvested. And Evelyns email of 17 February 2022 to the existing SIPP 
provider seemed to support the idea that it acted on that instruction  so I didnt think 
Evelyn had done anything wrong at that point. 
I looked carefully at the other email that was sent directly to the registered adviser 
asking them to disinvest the assets, but I didnt think that Evelyn should have been 
aware of that email. I took the view that, on balance, the existing provider would have 
received notification that the registered adviser no longer worked for Evelyn.  
But I went on to consider the email that Mr Hs adviser sent to Evelyn on 
15 February 2022 which asked if it had received a disinvestment instruction and to 
carry out the instruction if it hadnt already done so. I thought that Evelyn should have 
done something in relation to that email which I thought would have led to the 
discovery of the earlier miscommunication and should have alerted Evelyn to begin 
the process of selling the assets and progressing the transfer.
I thought this would have led to Evelyn starting the sales process on 
18 February 2022, and it should then have followed that the whole transfer process 
would have completed earlier.
I said Evelyn should compare the current value of Mr Hs SIPP with the notional 
value had the transfer process begun on 18 February 2022. Any loss should be paid 
into Mr Hs plan if possible  or directly to him if that wasnt possible. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H said he accepted the provisional decision but wanted to make us aware that he was 
still awaiting the outcome of a data subject access request (DSAR) hed made to Evelyn. He 
also pointed out that my comment that, I dont think it was Evelyns responsibility to ensure 
the existing SIPP provider had an up to date adviser registered on its systems was 
incorrect. He said that was because Evelyn was also charging him for ongoing advice, so 
should have updated the adviser details.
Evelyn said it accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has recently updated us with his current medical condition and Im very sorry to learn of 
his current situation and diagnosis. He confirmed that he didnt wish to wait for the outcome 
of his DSAR and so I intend to draw this matter to a close for Mr Hs benefit and because of 
his current circumstances. As neither side has really provided any further submissions I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
The instructions of 8 February 2022
On 8 February 2022 Mr Hs existing SIPP provider sent two emails to Evelyn. One was sent 
to the Sipp team and said please accept this email as instruction to close the above 
account. This email must not be treated as a disinvestment request. As a cash transfer has 
been requested the adviser/client will be in touch shortly regarding investment. If you know 
of any illiquid stock held or expected to receive additional funds for this client, please notify me before proceeding with the account closure.
In my view this email was an alert to Evelyn for it to prepare to transfer Mr Hs pension 
assets - once they had been disinvested. I dont think the email required Evelyn to do 
anything more than simply to check whether any of the assets were illiquid or whether there 
were any outstanding funds due to be added to the pension account. And I think this was 
Evelyns understanding as well, as was supported by its email to the provider on 
17 February 2022 when it confirmed that there are some structured products within portfolio 
(sic) that investment manager would rather not sell, but they are tradeable  nothing is 
frozen/illiquid. So I dont think Evelyn acted incorrectly or caused any delays in its response 
to the email it received.
But there was another email sent by the existing SIPP provider on 8 February 2022, which 
went to the financial adviser it had recorded on its system for Mr H. This email said as you 
have requested a cash transfer I would be grateful if you could arrange for the investments 
in the xxx SIPP to be liquidated and confirm back to us once this has been processed, so 
that we can continue with the SIPP transfer Unfortunately, that adviser had left Evelyn 
some years before, so the disinvestment instruction wasnt received when it should have 
been  and was therefore not actioned. 
Mr H said that Evelyn should have had a system which forwarded emails sent to leavers to 
an appropriate team for remedial action. He also said Evelyn made no effort to update the 
existing provider of a change of adviser  after all hed left nearly three years previously. 
However, Evelyn said a reject notification would have been received by the sender 
notifying it that the email address was no longer in use  although the provider has told us 
that it didnt receive any such notification.
I did test the email address in question and received an undeliverable response which 
would support the idea that the provider would have also received the same kind of 
message. Although I accept that this was around 18 months after the incident in question so 
I cant be certain the same thing would have happened at that time. But I think, on balance, 
its more likely than not that a reject or undeliverable notice would have been issued to the 
existing provider from the email server, which ought to have alerted it to the fact that its 
original request hadnt reached the person it instructed to disinvest the SIPPs investments. 
But even if that wasnt the case, I dont think the responsibility can be levelled at Evelyn here 
as it wouldnt have known that the provider had sent an instruction email to a previous 
adviser, and its SIPP team was specifically told not to disinvest the assets. Evelyn wasnt 
made aware of where the disinvestment request had been sent so it wasnt even able to 
make an update quest. 
The email of 15 February 2022
But while I dont think Evelyn acted incorrectly following the email of 8 February, I have seen 
a copy of an email that Mr Hs new adviser sent to it on 15 February 2022. It said I hope you 
are well - it has been a while. We have instructed (the existing SIPP provider) to transfer 
Mr Hs SIPP to (a new provider.) 
Please can you let me know if you have had a request to sell down the assets, if not - please 
can you do so. 
So, I think at this point Evelyn was now generally aware of a previous disinvestment 
instruction and that the request had most likely been sent to it  even though its team 
hadnt directly received the request. I think Evelyn ought to have acted upon this email when 
it realised that the original instruction appeared to have gone missing. A reasonably quick 
investigation of previous communications ought to have led to Evelyn to discover that the request hadnt been actioned by its ex-adviser and that it should therefore begin the process 
of disinvestment itself. It did after all take that same action on 28 February 2022 when it was 
advised that things had gone wrong. 
Taking that into account I think it follows that Evelyn would have been able to start selling the 
SIPP assets three working days after it received the email of 15 February 2022  which I 
think is a reasonable timescale for the misunderstanding to be resolved and for it to 
assume the responsibility of disinvesting. 
I am mindful that Evelyn didnt actually respond to the email of 15 February 2022 because it 
didnt think that Mr Hs adviser had the authority to request any transactions on the SIPP 
account. And I think Evelyn was right to take that approach in general, but that would be to 
ignore the part of the email which suggested that something had gone wrong with the 
original disinvestment request  which I think it had a duty of care to at least investigate on 
Mr Hs behalf. In my view that investigation would have uncovered the problem of the 
request being sent to its ex-adviser and would have then given Evelyn the general 
responsibility for the disinvestment of assets. The position would then have been that Evelyn 
was responding to the existing providers request  not the adviser request of 
15 February 2022  which I think was the authority it required. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would now be in 
if his SIPP assets had been sold when I think it was first reasonable for Evelyn to have 
become aware that it was incumbent upon it to do so.
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr H's circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
What must Evelyn do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Evelyn must:
Compare the current value of Mr H's pension with the fair value of what it would have been 
had the disinvestment started on 18 February 2022 and then followed the same timescale 
and path as it did when it was actually sold.
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Evelyn should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Evelyn is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would have been able 
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Evelyn deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Evelyn should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Hs complaint. My decision is that Evelyn 
Partners Financial Planning Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Evelyn Partners Financial Planning Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr H in 
a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman