DRN-3982409
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B complain that National Savings and Investments (NSI) asked for grant of 
probate. 
What happened
r B had premium savings bonds totalling £50,000 with NSI. Sadly, he died on 17 December 
2020. Grant of Probate (GOP) was obtained on 9 June 2022. The NSI investment was paid 
to the executors on 23 July 2022.
Mr Bs wife, Mrs B, also had premium savings bonds with NSI of £50,000. She sadly died on 
1 June 2021. GOP was obtained on 13 December 2021. The PSB investment was paid to 
the executors on 9 February 2022.
The estate of Mrs B is represented by Mrs B (who I will refer to here as Mrs X  to avoid 
confusion)  who made several calls to NSI and corresponded with NSI. The estate 
complains that they were given mixed messages by NSI as to the need for a grant of probate 
for the late Mr B. They say that one member of staff said it wasnt needed, and then another 
said it was. They say this contradicted what they were told by HRMC probate office. They 
said that other banks and building societies didnt need a GOP and paid Mr Bs and Mrs Bs 
money without one. They say this caused a delay to the repayment of the funds and a lot of 
distress and confusion. This was a difficult time for the executors  as both parents passed 
away within six months of each other.
NSI said they were bound by the rules of probate, and these apply to all savings and 
investment firms. These say that where the value of savings exceeds £5,000, they reserve 
the right to request a grant of probate. In this case, the value exceeded £5,000 and so a 
GOP was needed.
The estate of Mrs B brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said NSI acted 
reasonably. A GOP was needed under the rules - and NSI had followed their processes for 
repaying investments. 
The estate of Mrs B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsmen look at their complaint. They 
said that because NSI said they reserve the right to request a grant of probate, then 
discretion shouldve been exercised and a GOP not asked for  for the late Mr B. They said 
a joint probate was granted by HMRC and this shouldve been sufficient to release the 
savings of both Mr B and Mrs B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at NSIs operating procedures covering the release of funds on the death of an 
account holder. These say that where savings exceed £5,000, NSI may ask to see a GOP. 
And so in this case, I cant say that NSI were wrong to do so. 
It is the case that NSI, and other firms, might exercise discretion and waive the need to see 
a GOP  and thats down to the individual firms involved. The estate of Mrs B has said that 
other banks/building societies did that. I cant comment on those decisions, or what the value 
of savings was in those firms. But in the case of NSI, they took the decision to ask for a GOP 
 which they were entitled to do. 
The estate has said that HMRC have said that a joint GOP could be produced and that 
shouldve been accepted by NSI  but our service can only look at how NSI have acted here, 
and not the actions and advice given by another party.
The following comments relate to the estate of Mr B for context:
The estate of Mr B say they were told that a GOP wasnt needed - on a call in February 
2022. We asked NSI for the calls made by Mrs X. I listened to the calls made on 28 January 
2022, 2 February 2022, 8 February 2022, 24 June 2022, and 6 July 2022. Mrs X has said 
there was a call on 15 February 2022  but it appears there wasnt one on that date.
It is the call on 2 February 2022 which is important in the context of this complaint. Mrs X 
explained that she had been given a joint GOP by HMRC  and been told by HMRC that 
this would be accepted by NSI for her to gain access to her late fathers PSB funds. She 
explained why she wanted to do it that way  as his estate had passed to his wife (who then 
sadly died). Therefore, her logic was that as the late Mr Bs funds passed to his wife, then 
the GOP for the late Mrs B would suffice. And the estate could access the late Mr Bs funds 
that way. The form mentioned was IHT217.
NSIs call handler then took advice from NSIs bereavement department  I heard the 
internal advice given to the call handler. This was that  if the estate could get a letter from 
HMRC to say that the late Mr Bs estate were included in the late Mrs Bs GOP  then NSI 
would accept that. NSIs call handler wrote that down and read out the advice to Mrs X. The 
call handler concluded in that case  your mothers probate will be enough (to get the 
repayment of the late Mr Bs PSBs). I heard Mrs X repeat what shed been told and she 
wrote it down.
We asked for and looked at the customer notes to see what was recorded. These confirm 
what Mrs X was told on the call on 2 February 2022. But  the notes then (later) say that on 
8 February 2022, Mrs X called again to say that she couldnt get any such letter from HMRC 
 and so a GOP for the late Mr Bs estate would be needed.
In NSIs operating processes - there isnt any mention of a joint GOP or IHT217.  So - NSI 
were acting in line with their operating rules to ask for a GOP. But  the fact is that Mrs X 
was wrongly advised on the call on 2 February 2022. 
The following relates to the estate of Mrs B (this complaint):
But  the forgoing error by NSI affected the winding up of her late fathers estate, and not the 
winding up of her late mothers. NSI were entitled to ask for a GOP for the late Mrs Bs 
estate so her PSBs could be released.
There was an error in what Mrs X was told on the call on 2 February 2022, I can see why 
she was confused and frustrated. Mrs X was wrongly informed that a letter from HMRC 
would mean she didnt have to get a GOP for her late father. This was an error by NSI  
which, to be fair they later corrected. But  the impact of NSIs error as regards the estate of 
Mr B  has been dealt with in the provisional decision for that complaint.
 But  so far as the estate of Mrs B is concerned  this had no impact on that, and a GOP was obtained in December 2021 an the PSB funds were paid out in February 2022. 
Therefore  as regards the estate of Mrs T, NSI acted reasonably, and this complaint is not 
upheld.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman