DRN-2943310
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a claim she 
made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M took out an annual travel insurance policy in July 2019 which was underwritten by 
URV. In September 2019, Mrs M booked a holiday abroad, to a country Ill call L. She was 
due to travel between 14 and 21 March 2020. Mrs M and a friend flew to L as planned on 14 
March 2020.
However, Mrs Ms airline cancelled her pre-booked return flight due to disruption caused by 
Covid-19. She was able to buy a new return ticket from another airline and was still able to 
travel back to the UK on 21 March 2020 as shed planned. The original airline offered Mrs M 
a credit voucher for the cost of her cancelled flight.  She made a claim on her travel 
insurance policy for the costs of her new flight.
URV turned down Mrs Ms claim. It said the policy terms and conditions didnt cover the 
circumstances of it.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. As Mrs M had returned to 
the UK on the day shed intended to, she didnt think the trip had been curtailed. And as Mrs 
Ms return hadnt been delayed by more than 12 hours, she didnt think her claim was 
covered by the travel disruption section of the policy either. Overall, she felt itd been fair for 
URV to turn down Mrs Ms claim.
Mrs M disagreed. She said her travel plans had been disrupted through no fault of her own 
and she hadnt been able to curtail earlier, as there were no available flights. She said 
everything in L had been closed down when it went into lockdown and she had been 
confined in a small room for the duration of the trip. She also said the hotel had told her it 
was closing, so the situation had been very distressing. She felt the trip had been a stressful 
ordeal rather than a holiday and so she considered URV should pay the claim on that basis.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M, I think it was fair for URV to turn down 
her claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mrs Ms policy and the circumstances of her claim to decide whether URV treated 
her fairly.
Ive first turned to look at the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mrs Ms 
contract with URV. URV originally assessed Mrs Ms claim in line with the If you need to 
come home early section of the policy. However, Mrs M told URV that in fact, she hadnt cut 
short her trip, shed returned home on the day she planned to. So she didnt think the 
curtailment section of the policy applied to the circumstances of her claim. For completeness 
though, Id add that the curtailment section of the policy doesnt cover the costs a 
policyholder incurs if their airline cancels their flight, resulting in them needing to purchase a 
new one.
Mrs Ms policy does cover travel disruption. It pays a benefit of £20 for each 12 hours a 
policyholder is delayed, up to a maximum of £160 if:
the departure of your international flight, international train or sailing is delayed for more 
than 12 hours from its scheduled departure time from your international departure point.
Ive looked at Mrs Ms planned return itinerary and her actual flight times. Her pre-booked 
return flight was due to take place on 21 March 2020 at 11.10am. Her actual, new flight was 
scheduled to take off on 21 March 2020 at 12.25pm. Based on these timings, I cant fairly 
find that Mrs Ms return was delayed by more than 12 hours. And Mrs M hasnt suggested 
that she was delayed for more than 12 hours when she returned to the UK. So it follows that 
I dont think her claim was covered by this section of the policy.
The policy also includes a section called Scheduled Airline Failure, which provides cover for 
the cost of a one-way fare back to a policyholders home country. But this cover only applies 
where the airline has become insolvent or failed financially. That wasnt the case here. Mrs 
Ms flight was cancelled because of flight disruption caused by Covid-19. So her claim isnt 
covered by this section of the policy either.
Ive considered the remaining sections of Mrs Ms policy carefully. But I simply dont think the 
policy provides cover for the costs of a new flight if the original flight is cancelled by the 
airline in circumstances like those Mrs M was in. I do that appreciate the situation Mrs M 
found herself in was entirely outside of her control and that she had little choice but to 
arrange new flights. And I dont doubt how worrying this situation mustve been for her. I 
sympathise with her position. But as Ive set out above, in these circumstances, I dont think 
it was unfair for URV to conclude that her claim simply wasnt covered by the terms of her 
contract.
Mrs M has mentioned the impact the lockdown restrictions imposed on L had on her holiday. 
I cant see that this is something shes raised previously with URV. But its open to Mrs M to 
get in touch with URV to discuss the effect Ls lockdown had on her holiday and whether its 
prepared to consider any new claim on that basis. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman