DRN-2767474
The complaint
Miss K and Mr K are unhappy with information that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited 
have been recording on their credit file relating to missed payments and arrears. They 
dispute having missed the number of payments that Kensington have said they have. They 
have said this has impacted them being able to remortgage in order to get a better interest 
rate. Theyve also said their payment arrangement wasnt correctly reported.
What happened
Miss K and Mr K took out a mortgage in May 2015 for £304,000 on a capital repayment 
basis to be paid over a term of 30 years. The mortgage was taken out on a two-year fixed 
rate of 3.69% which would then revert to Kensingtons standard variable rate (SVR) which 
was 5.10% at the time  which they are still on.
Miss K and Mr K wanted to get a lower interest rate and Kensington informed them they 
would need to see a broker to get this changed. Mr K said he spoke to a broker in 2019 to 
discuss getting a lower interest rate and because their mortgage had fallen into arrears at 
times, he was told he would need to maintain 12 months full mortgage payments to improve 
his credit file in order to move to a different lender. 
Mr K said that he had some issues with his work and because of this, he missed a payment 
in February 2019, but he agreed a payment plan for this. But he said that Kensington have 
not informed the credit reference agency (CRA) about this plan.
Mr K said he expected his credit file to have improved by August 2019 and wanted to 
remortgage to another lender to benefit from a lower interest rate. But he said that 
Kensington reported them as having missed payments in May and August 2019. Miss K and 
Mr K also said that Kensington had reported 19 missed or late payments on his credit file 
which has since increased. Because of this, they said they are unable to switch lender or get 
a lower interest rate.
Miss K and Mr K complained to Kensington who responded to their complaint and confirmed 
there had been an error. Kensington said that they had made an error and that the credit file 
was showing as three months of arrears instead of two. They said the credit file is updated 
once on the last day of each month and if the due date of the direct debits falls on a 
weekend, as it did on 31 March 2019 and 30 June 2019, the direct debit would be taken the 
next working day. Kensington said this caused Miss K and Mr Ks credit file to be reported 
incorrectly. They said they would amend the credit file to reflect this. Kensington offered 
Miss K and Mr K £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
Miss K and Mr K were not happy with what Kensington had said so they brought the 
complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator 
said that Kensington should amend the credit file to reflect the errors made by Kensington 
and he also found other errors that needed to be amended.
Miss K and Mr K still had concerns that Experian were reporting 19 missed payments on 
their credit file and because Kensington had made an error, Miss K and Mr K wanted them to 
put their mortgage on a special interest rate of 1.19% for two years. They said they didnt 
ask for additional compensation as they wanted the lower interest rate instead.
Our investigator said he thought the compensation was fair and he didnt think it was right to 
ask Kensington to lower the interest rate. He said that the amendments he asked 
Kensington to make would have put Miss K and Mr K back in the position they would have 
been in, had the error not occurred. 
Miss K and Mr K didnt agree with what our investigator had said and asked the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K and Mr K have said they feel trapped on an interest rate of 5.1% because they are 
unable to move their mortgage to another lender in order to get a lower interest rate. They 
said that Kensington have now reported 28 late payments to Experian and that Kensington 
still havent made the changes to his credit file that they said they would. Miss K and Mr K 
said there are no consequences for Kensington for the error they made and want the lower 
interest rate of 1.19% for two years.
Credit file
Ive looked through the evidence provided by both parties and have firstly looked at the 
information that has been provided by Kensington against the credit file report. Ive also 
looked at the contact notes that Kensington have provided.
Miss K and Mr K have said that Kensington have been reporting missed payments to credit 
file agencies since May 2018. Kensington have confirmed that the following months are the 
only ones where payments have been missed:
April 2018
May 2018
February 2019
January 2020
April 2020
Kensington said that these are the only payments that have been missed and not the 19 or 
28 that Miss K and Mr K have said are showing as being reported.
Having looked at the transaction history that Kensington have provided, I agree that these 
payments above have been missed and cannot see that any more are showing. I have noted 
that Miss K and Mr K took a three-month payment deferral from April  June 2020 and an 
additional one for July 2020.
The contact notes show that Mr K contacted Kensington in May 2018 to set up a payment 
arrangement that would come into effect from June 2018. This is because Mr K said this is 
when he would be receiving money in order to make the payments. I can also see that the 
direct debit was initially cancelled because of two payments being returned unpaid for two 
consecutive months (April and May 2018)  this isnt out of line with what would normally 
happen in this situation. The direct debit was set up again from June 2018 and payments 
made until February 2019.
Kensington said they reported the account as being one month in arrears, but there was a 
payment arrangement in place except in September 2018 where Kensington reported the 
account as being two months in arrears due to the dates in which the payments were taken. 
Kensington have said they will correct this.
The contact notes show that on 12 February 2019, Mr K called Kensington in order to set up 
a new payment arrangement. On 21 February 2019, Kensington were informed that the direct debit instruction had been cancelled. Mr K called again in March 2019 to set up a new 
payment arrangement and he told Kensington that he cancelled the direct debit because 
there was fraudulent activity on his account. He said they were struggling to make payment 
to their mortgage account because he had started his own business and Miss K wasnt 
working at the time because she had a baby. As there was a negative disposable income, 
Kensington couldnt set up a payment arrangement at this time. So, looking at this, the 
February 2019 payment was never made so Kensington have correctly reported this to the 
CRA.
Kensington reported to the CRA that there was an arrangement in place to pay the arrears, 
but they incorrectly reported additional arrears for March and June 2019 due to the payment 
dates  the same error as September 2018. Kensington said they would amend these errors 
and because of this, they offered Miss K and Mr K £100 for the inconvenience caused.
The payment that was missed after that was January 2020, but Mr K said he did make this 
payment. Having looked through the transaction history, a payment was made on 20 
January 2020, so I agree a payment was made. However, the payment that was due on 31 
December 2019 didnt go through because the direct debit had been returned unpaid. So, 
the payment that was made in January was applied to December 2019 because it was still 
outstanding. The next payment was made on 29 February 2020 so there was still one month 
missing. Because a payment had been missed, the payment arrangement had been broken 
and was no longer being reported to the CRA. Having looked through the transactions and 
what has been reported, Im satisfied that Kensington have reported this correctly.
I can see that Mr K called Kensington in March 2020 to discuss the arrangement ending and 
Kensington informed him of the reason why. Mr K said he would call back to set up the 
arrangement, but he never did. The next time he called was in April 2020 to request a 
payment deferral due to Covid-19. Kensington agreed the payment deferral for three months 
from April  June 2020 and they also applied a further deferral for July 2020.
The April 2020 payment wasnt made, and it looks like Kensington have reported this to the 
CRA. They shouldnt have done this because there was a payment deferral in place. It also 
doesnt look like they reported the fact that a payment deferral had been agreed. Therefore, 
Kensington should amend the way they have reported this to the CRA and show that the 
account had an arrangement in place from April  July 2020. In addition to that, they 
shouldnt record that April 2020 payment was missed.  They also need to report that the 
account was only two months in arrears and not three  which is what they already said they 
were going to do. 
Miss K and Mr K still have concerns because the information they have obtained from 
Experian shows that there are 28 late payments to the account. Mr K has sent us evidence 
in the form of a summary page that Experian sent him. One is showing the account as 
having 19 missed payments and the other, which is more recent, at 28 missed payments. 
Having looked through the mortgage account history, I cannot say that that this is what has 
been missed or what Kensington themselves, have reported. From May 2018 until August 
2020, the mortgage account had always been at least one month behind  and this was 
showing as arrears. So, any missed payment would roll over to the following month. 
Experian havent specified what these late payments look like but from reviewing the 
transaction history and what Kensington have reported  I cant say that Kensington have 
made any further reporting errors. Miss K and Mr K may need to get some clarity from 
Experian as this doesnt sit in line what is being reported by Kensington  and it could be 
because the missed payment is rolling over each month. The £100 compensation that 
Kensington have awarded for their errors are fair and I think this is enough for the 
inconvenience caused to Miss K and Mr K. I will therefore, not be asking Kensington to pay 
anything further.
Interest rateMiss K and Mr K said they wanted a lower interest rate to be applied to their mortgage, but 
they were unable to get one because of the credit score issues  which I have already 
commented on above.
The contact notes show that in March 2019, Mr K contacted Kensington to ask for a new rate 
and they told him to speak to a broker as they couldnt do this, and that there was a list he 
could obtain from their website.
Mr K said he spoke to a broker who told him, because the mortgage was in arrears, 
Miss K and Mr K would need to maintain 12 monthly payments in full to be able to move to 
another lender.
Having looked through the transaction history, it doesnt look like Miss K and Mr K were able 
to make 12 consecutive payments to their mortgage account. I also note that this was advice 
given to them by a broker and not Kensington and this advice was based around 
Miss K and Mr K moving to another lender, so the criteria of other lenders may have been 
different. I therefore dont think its fair to hold Kensington responsible for this or the advice 
given to Miss K or Mr K by the broker.
I think its also fair to note that the mortgage account had been in arrears and can also make 
it very difficult to move a mortgage from one lender to another.
I appreciate that Miss K and Mr K would like Kensington to put them on a 1.9% two-year 
fixed rate because of the issues that have happened  but thats not how it works. 
While I accept that Kensington did report some errors to the CRA, we wouldnt ask them to 
compensate by lowering the interest rate that Miss K and Mr K are on. We would expect a 
lender to put things right and put the borrowers back in the position they would have been in 
before, had the error not occurred. By telling Kensington to make the necessary changes to 
what they have reported to the CRA this would put Miss K and Mr K back in same position.
I also appreciate that Mr K has suffered because of this and he says it has impacted his 
health physically. I am very sorry to hear this. But its not fair to ask Kensington to lower the 
interest rate because of the errors made. But if Miss K and Mr K still want to explore 
changing their interest rate, they should contact Kensington to see what options are 
available.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
I am directing Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to:Report to the CRA that there was a payment deferral in place from April  July 2020 
and show that April 2020 payment wasnt missed because of this
Make the changes they mentioned in their final response letter and report to the CRA 
that only two payments were missed and not three  March and June 2019 should 
not be showing as late payments
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman