DRN-3201329
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to her by 
HFC Bank Limited (HFC) in 2002. Shes not happy with the number of PPI premiums used 
in the redress calculation and the resulting amount of redress it offered.
What happened
In 2002 Mrs A took a regular premium loan for £8,400 (plus interest) to be repaid over 60 
monthly instalments and took PPI at the same time. Mrs A thought she had been mis-sold 
the PPI and complained to HFC. HFC agreed with her and the complaint was upheld. It 
made an offer in April 2021 of £477.39.
Mrs A wasnt happy with the amount offered. She thought she had paid much more in PPI 
premiums.
Our adjudicator who considered the complaint didnt uphold it. They thought that based on 
the evidence HFC had been able to provide, the offer was fair. 
Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicator, so the complaint remains unresolved and has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the complaint has already been upheld by HFC, who has agreed to pay redress, I
will not be considering the merits of the PPI sale. But I will be looking at the compensation
that has been offered, and whether I think it is fair.
When a business agrees to settle a complaint, we expect it to, as far as possible, to put the
customer back in the position they would have been in had they not taken out the PPI policy.
Id expect it to refund the premiums paid for PPI, any interest paid on the premiums and any
further charges caused by the PPI as well as interest for the time the customer has been out 
of pocket.
Because of the time since the loan was taken and the PPI sold, HFC has limited information. 
HFC no longer has details about the loan on its systems. But I dont find this surprising as 
businesses are not obliged to keep records indefinitely. However, HFC has been able to 
show us a screenshot of its archived PPI data.
That data shows a monthly PPI premium and interest cost of £31.04 per month. It also 
shows that a total of seven monthly premiums were paid totalling £217.28. This was for the 
period June 2002 to December 2002. Along with its offer to refund the premiums, HFC has 
added £260.11 (net of tax)  being statutory 8% interest on that sum for the time Mrs A was 
out of pocket. 
I know Mrs A disagrees with this. She thinks she made many more payments and she 
doesnt recall the loan being repaid early. And we cant know for sure why only seven 
payments were made  whether the loan was repaid early, or the PPI policy cancelled. But 
other than what Mrs A has said, she hasnt been able to give me anything further to 
consider. So, in the absence of this and taking into consideration the evidence that is 
available to me, I think that what HFC has offered is fair. 
So overall, I think the offer HFC has made is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the offer made by HFC Bank Limited is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs As complaint. It is now for Mrs A to decide 
whether to accept the offer made. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman