DRN-1802118
The complaint
Mrs E says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Mrs E took out in 2002. It was added to her 
account when she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs E disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision saying I was planning to uphold the complaint. This was on 
the basis that Canada Square hadn't given Mrs E clear enough information about the cost 
and benefits of the PPI. And that if it had, I thought that Mrs E would not have agreed to take 
the PPI, because she already had a significant level of cover through her work and an 
income protection insurance policy.
Canada Square objected to this, and asked for evidence of the income protection insurance 
policy that Mrs E held. It felt that because she hadn't provided this information when she first 
complained, that suggested she had reviewed documents in order to provide the additional 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Es complaint for the same reasons given in my provisional 
decision. I explain these again below, as well as my thoughts on the points Canada Square 
made in response to my provisional decision.
When Mrs E first complained, she said she had an income protection policy. Our 
PPI questionnaire, where she provided this information, doesn't set out the specific things 
we need to know about such a policy in order for us to know what effect it has on a 
complaint.
Our usual approach is to ask for more information about an income protection policy. In this 
case, the adjudicator didn't do so, and instead said the complaint shouldn't be upheld. Mrs E 
didn't mention the income protection insurance policy when replying to our adjudicator. 
That's understandable, as I wouldn't expect a consumer to understand the importance of it. 
And Mrs E was focussed on another complaint point. As such, our adjudicator considered 
the additional points Mrs E had made, and because they made no difference to the outcome, 
referred the complaint for an ombudsman's decision.I felt we should've got more information about Mrs E's income protection policy, and asked 
for this. I've no reason to doubt Mrs E's recollection of the cover provided by her income 
protection policy, even though she no longer holds evidence of it, such as policy documents. 
She recalls who she purchased the income protection policy from, as well as the level of 
benefit it provided. She mentioned the income protection policy when she first made the 
complaint - and provided further information when requested. I find her testimony about this 
plausible and persuasive. And I remain of the opinion that this complaint should be upheld.
I appreciate why Canada Square asked for further evidence of the income protection policy. 
And I trust it would've made an offer of settlement if such evidence had been available to 
confirm what Mrs E has told us. But without evidence of the income protection policy, it's for 
me to decide this complaint based on what is available, including Mrs E's testimony. 
I dont think Canada Square gave Mrs E clear enough information about the policy. I say this 
because it didn't clearly set out the cost and benefits of the policy. I think this would have 
mattered to Mrs E because she had an income protection insurance policy that wouldve 
paid out if shed been unable to work due to sickness, accident or unemployment. The 
income protection policy wouldve paid the equivalent of her full salary for nine months, 
followed by half her salary for six months. She also had some savings and sick pay through 
her work. 
I dont think Mrs E wouldve bought the policy if Canada Square had given her enough 
information about it, because she couldve got by for over twelve months even without the 
PPI. So, I think Mrs E has lost out because of what Canada Square did wrong. 
Putting things right
Canada Square should put Mrs E in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken 
out PPI.
Canada Square should find out how much Mrs E would have owed when she closed her 
credit card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Canada Square should then refund the difference between what Mrs E owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs E made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
Canada Square should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs E would 
have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year . 
If  when Canada Square works out what Mrs E would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs E paid more than enough to clear her balance, Canada Square should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs E paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mrs E wouldve owed Canada Square something on her credit card. The interest rate should 
be 8% a year. 
Canada Square should tell Mrs E what its done to work out the above. HM Revenue & Customs requires Canada Square to take off tax from this interest. Canada 
Square must give Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Canada Square Operations Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman