DRN-2964925
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank
(M&S) has refused to pay them an account switch incentive.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P say they took advantage of a M&S account switch incentive of £220 in total.
They applied for the account switch towards the end of 2020 but were later told M&S had
withdrawn the incentive. Mr and Mrs P say they received an e-mail from M&S confirming
they would receive the incentive and have screen shots from M&Ss website about the offer.
They say they lost £220 and would like M&S to pay that amount to them.
M&S say the incentive was ended in January 2020 and Mr and Mrs P applied for the account
switch in November 2020. It says Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have been eligible as they didnt
transfer four direct debits in any event. And says Mr and Mrs P sent it a screen shot of its
website from 2019 about the switch incentive.
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The
investigator thought M&Ss website had reference in the press release section about the
incentive and thought it unlikely Mr and Mrs P would have applied for the account switch if
not for the incentive. He recommended M&S pay compensation of £50.
M&S doesnt accept that view and says there was nothing on its main website about any
switch incentive and says it doesnt need to remove information from its press release
section.
Mr and Mrs P dont accept that view and maintain they should receive the full incentive and
have provided various screen shots about it.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and said as follows.
I appreciated Mr and Mrs P thought M&S was offering an account switch incentive and I said 
I accept that on balance that was the reason they made the switch application. But I thought 
in those circumstances Mr and Mrs P ought reasonably to have checked the up to date 
position rather than rely on information that was current in 2019. I didnt think it likely that 
M&Ss website would have contained any information about an incentive apart from the 
press release section. And so, I thought it reasonable to have expected customers that were 
interested in a switch incentive to have checked if one was available before applying or to 
have asked M&S if one was available.
I looked at the e-mail M&S sent Mr and Mrs P and I was satisfied that it told them if
eligible for an incentive they would receive it. I was also satisfied that was sent after the 
switch application in any event and that it doesnt confirm that there was an incentive in 
place. I thought it simply confirms eligibility and if there isnt an incentive then a customer 
cant be eligible for one.
I appreciated Mr and Mrs P say that M&Ss press release section on its website has details 
of the incentive. I agreed that is the position, but I made clear that I didnt think it
reasonable for customers to assume that a press release in 2019 about an account incentive
would still in place the following year. And I didnt think it reasonable to expect M&S to
remove such press releases. I also made clear that I thought it reasonable for customers
interested in a switch incentive to either have checked the position or noticed there wasnt
any reference to it during the application process.
I didnt think overall that M&S has misled Mr and Mrs P or offered them a switch incentive. It
follows I said, that I cant fairly order it to pay them the incentive or any compensation. I 
didnt think Mr and Mrs P had lost the £220 as they suggest, as I didnt think they ever 
received it or would have received it. I said it also was not clear if Mr and Mrs P would have 
met any switch incentive requirements if it was in place as it didnt appear four direct debits 
were transferred.
I appreciated Mr and Mrs P provided information from other websites about M&Ss
switch incentive. I said that I cant fairly hold M&S responsible for information on websites 
other than its own.
Mr and Mrs P have responded to my provisional decision and disagree with it. They say they 
did meet the direct debit requirement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons. I dont need to make a finding about Mr and Mrs Ps eligibility for any switch 
incentive as I have made clear I dont think there was a switch incentive in place.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman