DRN-3373958
The complaint
Mr E complains about how U K Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against his motor legal 
protection cover. Reference to UKI includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr E had motor legal protection cover as an addition to his 
motor insurance policy. Unfortunately, Mr E was injured whilst driving a hire car. UKI 
accepts that it misinformed Mr E about his cover and that it should have told him that the 
cover applies only to accidents in his own car, not a hire car. 
UKI offered Mr E compensation of £350 in relation to its error. Mr E didnt think that was 
sufficient and pursued his complaint. He wants UKI to cover legal fees in recovering his 
uninsured losses and more compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that Mr Es policy 
doesnt cover him for uninsured losses in the circumstances that arose here. The 
investigator thought that UKIs offer of compensation of £350 was fair.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he cant use his arm and is still 
receiving physiotherapy, so he doesnt see how compensation of £350 is reasonable.  
Mr E said that thered been delay in receiving physiotherapy and that his injury meant 
that he couldnt hold or play with his children. He asked that an ombudsman consider the 
claim, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
Section H Motor Legal Protection (optional extra)
[]
This cover can be used to claim your uninsured losses if you and your car are involved in a 
road traffic accident with a moving vehicle, as defined by the Road Traffic Act, where 
someone else is to blame.
We will pay the costs to help you claim your uninsured losses from the person
who was to blame for the accident.
[]
 
Policy definitions
[]
Your car - the car described in the current schedule. []
 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Mr Es  
complaint because I think that the compensation UKI has already offered is fair and 
reasonable. I say that because:
UKI accepts that it misinformed Mr E about his cover. Ive set out above the relevant 
part of the policy which provides that the motor legal protection cover is for uninsured 
losses following an accident in Mr Es own car. It doesnt cover claims arising out of 
an accident in a hire car. On several occasions, UKI led Mr E to believe that his claim 
arising from his accident whilst driving a hire car would be covered. 
In cases like these, when an insurer provides incorrect or incomplete information, we 
dont proceed on the basis that the incorrect or incomplete information is true. In the 
particular circumstances here, theres no basis on which I could fairly direct UKI to 
provide Mr E with the cover he thought he had, as the policy doesnt cover uninsured 
losses arising out of an accident whilst driving a hire care. But I can consider the 
effect of UKIs errors on Mr E.  
Mr E was no doubt disappointed to learn the true position. And he spent some time 
pursuing the matter with UKI. Mr E says  and UKI accepted  that the errors caused 
delay in setting up his physiotherapy. I appreciate that Mr E is concerned about his 
injury but UKI isnt responsible for that. Considering everything, I think that UKIs offer 
of compensation of £350 is fair and reasonable in this case. In reaching that view, 
Ive taken into account the nature, extent, and duration of the distress and 
inconvenience UKIs errors caused Mr E. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. If Mr E wishes to accept UKIs offer, 
he should contact it direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman