DRN-2572372
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that the first payment for his mortgage with Nationwide Building Society was 
collected sooner than he expected.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
As a starting point Nationwide did nothing wrong in collecting Mr Fs first payment on 
12 March. The first payment was always going to be collected on that date, irrespective of 
what Mr F understood from the phone call he had with Nationwide before his mortgage 
completed. In fact that payment would have been collected on 1 March if there had been 
enough time for Nationwide to set up the direct debit as that was when the payment was 
actually due, based on Mr Fs preferred payment date of the 1st of the month. He could never 
have been in the position where he could complete his mortgage in February, pay nothing 
until 1 April, and then just pay monthly from then.
I agree the call handler could have been more clear as she mentioned a usual timeframe of 
four to six weeks until the first payment is collected, but as Mr F admitted in the call he had 
with the complaint handler if he had known the first payment would be on 12 March then he 
would have put the money across which is exactly what he ended up doing.
Mr F said he didnt receive Nationwides letter about the first payment until the day the 
payment was taken  12 March  but I cant hold Nationwide liable for that. Nationwide sent 
the letter to Mr F on 2 March, and it has no regulatory requirement to send such letters by 
recorded delivery or follow them up with phone calls. To do so, with the amount of mortgage 
customers Nationwide has, would be costly and that cost would have to be passed onto its 
members, by way of reduced interest rates on credit balances (like savings), and increased 
interest rates on debit balances (like mortgages). Im satisfied Nationwide sent the letter to 
Mr F in plenty of time and therefore did everything it needed to do there.
Mr F has said he only had a moments notice of the payment being collected on 12 March. 
As Mr F also has his funding current account with Nationwide, he was sent a text message 
the day before (it is showing as having been received by Mr F at just after 7am the day 
before the payment was due) to say a payment would be going out which would take him 
overdrawn. Whilst the text message related to his current account rather than his mortgage 
account, Im satisfied 24 hours notice was sufficient to allow Mr F time to sweep money from 
his other Nationwide-held account into his current account to ensure he didnt go overdrawn.
Mr F has said there was an impact in having to move money across to cover the mortgage 
payment, saying:
Because we didnt have the full amount of savings we werent able to purchase things for 
our wedding as scheduled- invites, bridesmaid dresses, drinks etc. The unexpected and 
unauthorised debit that they took put an unnecessary stress on our relationship.
But that doesnt tie in with the account statements we have. At the time Mr F moved the 
money across (on 12 March) to cover the mortgage payment he had over £8,000 remaining 
in his other account. By the end of March he had over £10,000 in the account, and in that 
time there were no notable transactions out of the account. It seems unlikely that the £8,000 
they still had available was insufficient to purchase things for our wedding as scheduled- 
invites, bridesmaid dresses, drinks etc, or that it put an unnecessary stress on our 
relationship. Theres nothing to show any wedding-related outgoings were due in the short 
period between 12 March (when the payment was made) and 26 March (which represents 
the four weeks Mr F was told his first payment was potentially due on) otherwise I would 
have expected the balance of that other account to have gone down, rather than up.
I agree that the call handler could have been more clear in the call in February. They should 
still have said they didnt know when the first payment would be, but not mentioned when it 
might usually be. But irrespective of what they said, Mr F would always have had to make a 
mortgage payment on 12 March, and then another on 1 April. There was no getting round 
that. So all Mr F has done is make the payments that were fairly due.
Mr F has talked of what if he didnt have the money available. But I cant consider things 
that might have happened but didnt. Mr F did have the money available and Im satisfied 
that didnt impact on his wedding payments. Nationwide offered £25 compensation for the 
mis-information that was given by its call handler and all things considered I think that is a 
fair offer, and more than covers the 2p in overdraft interest Mr F has mentioned.
Having considered everything, I cant uphold this complaint however much Mr F may want 
me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied the offer made by Nationwide Building 
Society is fair and reasonable. I leave it to Mr F to contact Nationwide directly if, on 
reflection, he wants to accept that offer (if he hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman