DRN-2726613
The complaint
Ms B has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
What happened
Ms B bought the policy over the phone in April 2002 sometime after taking out a store card.
The policy cost £1 per £100 of Ms Bs outstanding monthly statement balance. And if she 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 15% of that 
balance until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Ms B returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to let Ms B know the policy was optional and it had to get her consent before it 
added PPI to her account. Ms B says she had no idea she had taken out PPI, but AXA says 
Ms B already had her store card before she later agreed to take PPI over the phone.
Due to the length of time thats passed since the sale took place, its not possible to listen to 
a recording of the phone call Ms B had with AXA. But Ive seen a copy of Ms Bs store card 
application form which has a section about PPI on it. The application gave her the option to 
select PPI and Ms B chose not to take it at the time. I think she was likely aware PPI was 
optional at this point. 
AXA hasnt provided a call script for the period Ms Bs policy was sold. But weve seen a 
number of AXA cases involving phone sales and using what I know generally of AXAs sales 
practices, I think its more likely than not the representative would have followed a script. 
From the scripts weve seen, the wording usually prompted the representative to ask if the 
customer wanted PPI added to their account. So, I think its more likely than not that Ms B 
would have been aware she had a choice about taking the PPI and that AXA would have 
gained her consent before adding it to her account.
AXA didnt recommend PPI to Ms B, so it didnt have to check it was right for her. But AXA 
did need to give her enough information about the PPI, so she could decide whether to take 
it or not.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Ms B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances. 
And based on what I know about her circumstances at the time of sale, it looks like the policy 
could have been useful to her. So, I dont think better information would have stopped her 
from buying it. 
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Ms B.
Ive considered that Ms B says she was entitled to at least six months sick pay as well as 
redundancy pay from her employer. Ive thought about this, but the policy would have paid 
out on top of anything Ms B received from her employer and potentially for longer. Ms B 
could have claimed again subject to a requalification period. So, I think Ms B still could have 
found the cover useful if she fell on hard times.
Overall, I dont think better information would have changed Ms Bs decision to take the 
policy and I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman