DRN-4158645
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Zurich Insurance Company Ltd declined a claim they made 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which provided cover for 
various pre-departure and post-departure risks. The policy was issued on 1 July 2022 and 
was to cover a trip from 17 September 2022 to 1 October 2022. The trip Mr and Mrs H were 
due to go on was a cruise.
Mr and Mrs H have explained that they went on holiday as planned. But, on 25 September 
2022 they were told to isolate in their cabin on the ship, because Mrs H was feeling unwell, 
and there were concerns that she could be poorly with Covid-19. Mrs H then tested positive 
for Covid-19 on 27 September 2022, with Mr H also receiving a positive test result for 
Coronavirus two days later. Mr and Mrs H said they had to isolate in their cabin until the end 
of their trip on 1 October 2022. 
Because Mr and Mrs H had to isolate in their cabin from 25 September 2022 Mr and Mrs H 
said they werent able to continue with their cruise holiday as planned. They said this meant 
they effectively lost out on £2,244 they had paid for the portion of the holiday they could no 
longer use. As Mr and Mrs H felt theyd lost out, they made a claim under their travel 
insurance policy for the £2,244. 
Zurich considered Mr and Mrs Hs claim and declined it. Zurich said the policy did generally 
provide cover for cabin confinement  but not when this was related to Covid-19. It said 
there wasnt any other cover applicable to their situation. And so, their claim couldnt be 
settled.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree this was fair. Their claim form had noted they were making a 
claim for curtailment of their trip due to illness. And they felt their claim should be paid under 
that section of the policy, as they considered their trip had been cut short by the need to 
isolate in their cabin. 
Zurich maintained its position on Mr and Mrs Hs claim. But it accepted there had been some 
delays in dealing with the claim and offered £75 compensation in respect of these delays. Mr 
and Mrs H remained dissatisfied with Zurichs position on the matter. So, they referred their 
complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and felt it should be upheld. They accepted that 
the policy didnt provide cabin confinement cover for the circumstances Mr and Mrs H found 
themselves in. But they felt it would be fair and reasonable for Zurich to consider Mr and Mrs 
Hs claim under the curtailment section of the policy. Our investigator said this was because 
they thought Mr and Mrs Hs holiday was effectively curtailed as they were confined to their 
cabin. 
In addition, our investigator considered the £75 compensation offered to Mr and Mrs H to be 
fair.
Mr and Mrs H agreed with our investigators outcome. But Zurich didnt. Zurich considered 
that its policy was clear in noting the cover it provided  and Zurich said the policy didnt 
cover the situation Mr and Mrs H found themselves in. Zurich also said that it didnt agree 
effective curtailment applied on this case.
Because Zurich didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on requiring Zurich to pay £75 compensation to Mr and Mrs H 
for the delays they experienced in the progression of their claim  if Zurich hasnt already 
paid this to them. But Im not intending on requiring Zurich to change its decision on the 
claim.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H are going to be disappointed this with. Its clear they feel strongly 
about the matter  and I can understand why. Theyd taken the trip to celebrate a wedding 
anniversary and being poorly meant the trip couldnt be enjoyed as hoped. But Ive explained 
why Im intending on coming to this decision below.
Its important to note that I have considered all information submitted by the parties so far. 
But when detailing my intended decision, Ive only referred to what I consider necessary to 
explain my reasoning. This isnt intended as a discourtesy, but rather reflects the informal 
nature of this service. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Zurich acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to 
settle Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
As above, Mr and Mrs H were confined to their cabin from 25 September 2022. This has 
been evidenced by a letter from their cruise operator. As Mr and Mrs H were confined to 
their cabin, Ive reviewed the cabin confinement section of their policy, which is under 
section 17. This being because its the relevant section for then policyholders need to stay in 
their cabin during their trip.
On doing so, I can see the following is detailed under that section:
You are covered
We will pay up to the amount shown in the summary of cover on pages 8 and 9 for each 24 
hour period that you are confined by the ships medical officer to your cabin for medical 
reasons during the period of your trip.
You are not covered
()
2) anything mentioned in the general exclusions.The general exclusions section of the policy contains an exclusion related to claims caused 
by, or resulting from Coronavirus, as below:
 ()
26) any claims caused by or relating to Coronavirus (meaning COVID-19 or severe acute 
respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-COV-2) or any mutation or variation of these), 
including any claims related to any fear or threat concerning Coronavirus, unless you have 
had the recommended vaccination(s) (or we medically unable to have the vaccination as 
evidenced by your medical records) and the claim arises under:
Section 1 or two, because you or a member of your family or travelling party are 
medically diagnosed with Coronavirus or personally instructed to isolate by an NHS 
service or medical professional; or
Section 4 because you need medical treatment for Coronavirus whilst abroad.
()
No other cover applies in respect of claims caused by or relating to Coronavirus.
Given the above, Im aware the policy only covers claims related to Coronavirus, under the 
sections mentioned above, and not in any other area of the policy. Section 17, cabin 
confinement, isnt one of the sections where cover for claims due to coronavirus are 
covered. So, Im satisfied Zurich acted fairly in noting the claim wasnt covered by this 
section. The policy terms are clear on this. Its detailed in the sections mentioned above, as 
well as earlier in the policy booklet, on a separate addendum to cover. And is noted on the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) Mr and Mrs H would have been provided 
with on purchasing their policy.
As only sections one, two and six provide cover for claims related to Coronavirus  and 
Mr and Mrs Hs claim was due to Covid-19, Ive needed to think about whether Zurich acted 
fairly in noting none of these sections apply to Mr and Mrs Hs loss.
Im satisfied sections one and six dont apply. Section one is for cancellation of a trip. Mr and 
Mrs H didnt cancel their trip  they did go on it. And section six is for medical emergency 
expenses. Which Im aware is not what Mr and Mrs Hs claim is for. So, Im also satisfied 
Zurich acted fairly by not dealing with the claim under these sections.
Ive therefore considered whether Zurich acted fairly in noting section 2  which provides 
cover for curtailment doesnt apply to the loss. This is the section Mr and Mrs H feel is fitting 
for their loss. But havent considered this, I dont agree. 
Mr and Mrs Hs trip wasnt curtailed. Curtailment is defined within the policy as returning 
early to home in the United Kingdom. And the curtailment section explains it covers certain 
costs where the trip has to be curtailed and a return home earlier than originally planned is 
necessary, because of circumstances such as illness.
Mr and Mrs H didnt cut their trip short and return home. So, this section of the policy doesnt 
apply to Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances. They were confined to their cabin  and its that 
section that applies.
I understand our investigator considered that the trip was effectively curtailed  because 
Mr and Mrs H needed to stay in their cabin. And I do understand that Mr and Mrs H were no 
longer able to enjoy the cruise in the way they had planned  given the need to stay in their 
cabin. But, based on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, their holiday wasnt curtailed. 
So, Im satisfied this section of cover doesnt apply to Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances. And as above, Zurich made it clear within the policy that it didnt intend to cover the situation 
where Mr and Mrs H were confined to their cabin because of Covid-19. And thats what 
happened here. As the policy doesnt provide cover in this circumstance, and no other 
section of cover applies, Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair to note the claim should be covered 
in another way. Zurich acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the policy terms when 
declining Mr and Mrs Hs claim. So, I dont intend on requiring it to do anything differently in 
this respect.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs H have said they experienced delays in the progress of their claim. Zurich 
has accepted this was the case, and said the claim took longer than it should have. Zurich 
apologised for this delay and offered Mr and Mrs H £75 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to them as a result of the delay. As Zurich has accepted there were delays in 
progressing Mr and Mrs Hs claim I havent needed to consider this further. 
Rather, Ive needed to consider whether the £75 compensation offered is fair and 
reasonable, to reflect the impact the delay had on Mr and Mrs H. Having considered this, Im 
satisfied the £75 is fair. I say this because whilst awaiting the delayed claim outcome of the 
claim wouldnt have had a large impact on Mr and Mrs Hs day-to-day lives, it would have 
been frustrating and inconvenient, given the expectation for claims to be dealt with promptly. 
So, if Zurich hasnt already paid this to Mr and Mrs H it should now do so.
Zurich didnt respond to this provisional decision. Mr and Mrs H responded and explained 
they didnt agree. In summary, Mr and Mrs H were disappointed, and questioned why they 
took out insurance. And Mr and Mrs H reiterated that they considered the policy wording 
gave them a false impression of the cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Zurich should pay £75 compensation to Mr and Mrs H for the 
delays they experienced in the progression of their claim, if Zurich hasnt already paid this to 
them. But I dont require Zurich to change its decision on the claim. 
I have considered Mr and Mrs Hs further comments. But the points raised were already 
addressed in my provisional decision. There hasnt been any further comments or evidence 
from either party that alters my findings on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my 
decision remains the same as that in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I require Zurich Insurance Company Ltd to pay 
Mr and Mrs H £75 compensation, if it hasnt done so already. I dont require it to do anything 
different in relation to the outcome of Mr and Mrs Hs claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman