DRN-3146869
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) wont repair his TV under his 
Appliance Insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M bought the appliance insurance policy with D&G in 2013 to cover his TV. He made two 
claims under the policy for repairs to his TV during 2014. He also bought a new, different 
make of TV that year and mentioned it to D&G during a call about his original TV. The policy 
continued to renew each year.
In 2021, Mr M made a claim under his policy for repairs to his new TV. D&G declined the 
claim because it wasn't the TV covered under the policy. Mr M complained that D&G was 
aware he had a new TV, that hed sold his old one, and that it had continued to take his 
payments. He thought it should repair the TV or refund his payments.
D&G said the policy wasn't transferable to another appliance and Mr M wouldve had to 
cancel the policy and take out a separate one for his new TV. Mr M remained unhappy and 
brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that D&G had provided policy 
documents each year confirming that cover was for the original TV and there was no 
evidence that Mr M had asked D&G to provide cover for his new TV. Our investigator didnt 
think D&G had done anything wrong, so she didnt recommend any action.
Mr M didnt agree. He said D&G knew he didnt have his old TV, yet it continued to take his 
payments each month. Mr M thought D&G should refund all his payments.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr M will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain.
The key issue of complaint is whether Mr M asked D&G to cover his new TV under his 
policy. 
Mr M says he mentioned that hed bought a new TV when his old one was in for repair, so 
he thought D&G wouldve added it to the policy. D&G says the policy cant be transferred to 
another appliance.
Ive looked at the policy terms, which confirm the following:
Transferring your policy to a new owner
With our permission you may transfer your policy to a new owner of the product by giving 
us their details either over the telephone or in writing. You cannot transfer it to any other 
product.
Im satisfied that this supports D&Gs position that it wouldnt have transferred the policy to 
cover Mr Ms new TV.
Ive also looked at the renewal documents D&G sent to Mr M each year. The front page of 
the renewal clearly says cover is for his old make of TV, and the insurance certificate 
species the make and model number. Im satisfied that D&G made it clear to Mr M what 
appliance the cover was for.
I have no reason to doubt that Mr M mentioned his new TV to D&G. But I havent seen any 
evidence to persuade me that Mr M specifically asked D&G to provide cover. If he had, then 
its likely he wouldve received new policy documents from D&G, and hed have been aware 
that he was cancelling one policy and taking out another. But, in response to his complaint, 
D&G told Mr M that it doesnt provide cover for TVs costing over £2,000, so it wouldnt have 
offered a policy for his new TV anyway. 
In summary, I understand Mr Ms frustration that he continued to pay for insurance for his old 
TV after hed sold it. D&G provided the cover and it repaired his old TV twice under the 
policy, but theres no evidence that he took out a policy to cover his new TV. I cant fairly say 
D&G did anything wrong, so I have no reason to ask it to repair the new TV or refund the 
payments.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman