DRN-3630692
The complaint
Miss N complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) hasnt treated her 
fairly following a claim made under her car insurance policy.
What happened
The catalytic converter was stolen from Miss Ns vehicle in March 2022. She made a claim 
to her insurer, Hastings, but wasnt happy with the way Hastings handled the claim. So she 
raised a complaint.
In particular, she said Hastings customer service was poor and that it had taken too long to 
get her car fixed or to provide her with a valuation offer if it couldnt be fixed. Hastings 
accepted that it hadnt provided her with the level of service she expected as it hadnt 
phoned her back when itd promised to. So it apologised for this, and for causing Miss N 
distress at a time that was already stressful for her, as she was due to have an operation. 
Hastings said that catalytic converters for Miss Ns vehicle were no longer being produced, 
meaning the car was uneconomical to repair and would likely need to be deemed a total 
loss. However, it was later advised by its in-house engineers that it had located aftermarket 
catalytic converters, which could be an option as long as there was no further damage to the 
vehicle. Miss N said there was further damage as the car had been parked in a location 
where there was now construction work going on, and she couldnt move it. Hastings 
requested photographs of the car to enable a valuation, and on receiving these, said it would 
need to arrange a physical inspection instead. Miss N was frustrated by this, as she had 
gone out of her way to have photographs taken of the vehicle at a time when she was 
unable to walk.
Hastings offered Miss N £50 in recognition of the poor service it had provided. Miss N didnt 
accept this amount and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered what had happened and thought Hastings hadnt treated Miss N 
fairly. She recommended it pay her more compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
had caused and asked Hastings to come to a conclusion on the claim as soon as possible, 
offering a valuation in line with current market trends on Miss Ns vehicle.
Miss N didnt agree with our investigators assessment of her complaint. She said she had 
provided a considerable amount of information which hadnt been addressed and that her ill 
health was a direct result of Hastings actions. She thought that what she had been through 
was worth more than £400 in compensation. 
As Miss N didnt accept our investigators outcome, the complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss N has told us about several issues that she felt unhappy about, during the course of 
Hastings handling of her claim. Shes told us these issues are still not resolved. I wont 
comment here on everything shes mentioned, but I want to assure her Ive considered 
everything shes told us in detail, before reaching my decision. And Ill focus instead on the 
reasons for my decision.
I should point out that Ive only considered for the purposes of awarding compensation what 
happened up until Hastings issued its final response on 4 April 2022. Having considered all 
the information and all the problems Miss N has had up until that point, I dont think Hastings 
has treated Miss N fairly and I think it needs to do more than pay her the £50 it offered, to 
compensate her for its errors.
In particular, I note that it promised call backs and didnt deliver these. It contacted her at 
inconvenient times when it knew she would be recovering from major surgery. Shortly after 
issuing its final response, it made unreasonable requests such as asking for photographs of 
her vehicle when she couldnt walk and was recovering from her operation. It also didnt 
respond to her emails. And Miss N says she had to wait a considerable amount of time 
waiting to speak to someone on the phone.
Hastings failed to move her complaint forward in a timely manner and caused some 
avoidable delays. For all of these issues, I agree with our investigator and will require 
Hastings to compensate Miss N for the poor service it provided, by paying her an additional 
£400 for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
I recognise that Miss N wants considerably more compensation than this, but the amount of 
compensation shes looking for isnt in line with what wed award in similar cases. Ive based 
my award on the length of time these issues were taking to resolve and the impact these 
issues had on Miss N. Miss N can read some case studies on our website which detail the 
types of cases in which we would usually award higher amounts of compensation. 
Ive taken into account that Miss Ns health became worse as a result of what shes been 
through, and I dont doubt this to be the case. Ive considered the stress she has been under 
and the fact shes not been able to sleep due to the worry of whats been going on. She has 
my every sympathy, but my role is to determine how much of the distress shes experienced 
is due to failings by Hastings, and how much of it is likely due to other factors  such as the 
initial theft of the catalytic converter and the inconvenience this has caused, as well as the 
fact that Miss N has also been recovering from major surgery and wasnt able to walk for 
some time. I also cannot say for certain that all of Miss Ns health issues are a direct result of 
Hastings handling of her claim, though I can certainly appreciate that she has been caused 
additional stress when she was already going through a difficult time. 
For the issues shes complained about, and considering the impact these had on her, and 
how much of whats happened is likely Hastings fault, Im satisfied that £450 is fair and 
reasonable compensation in the circumstances. 
Im not upholding some parts of this complaint. For example, Miss N has provided 
photographs of the vehicle to enable a valuation to take place, but Hastings says it needs to 
arrange a physical inspection of the vehicle in order to provide an accurate valuation. Whilst 
I can understand Miss Ns frustration about this change in requirement, I can see from the 
emails on file that Miss N refused to let Hastings come out to pick up the car. I think 
Hastings request to inspect the car was a reasonable one and I can understand why a 
physical inspection would need to take place. The photographs Miss N has provided wont 
give enough information for an accurate valuation to be carried out for several reasons, including the fact that they arent dated and the fact that theyve been reviewed and 
engineers have been unable to come to a valuation based on the photographs alone. I also 
havent considered compensation for this change in requirement as these are events which 
took place after Hastings issued its final response. So Miss N would need to complain 
directly to Hastings about this and any other issues that have occurred after 4 April 2022.
Hastings has suggested that independent engineers would carry out the physical inspection 
and I consider this fair. I also consider that Hastings should disregard any damage caused 
by the construction work adjacent to the car, when carrying out its inspection and calculating 
a valuation, as letting this damage affect the valuation would not be fair to Miss N, when the 
vehicle was left for some time adjacent to construction works through no fault of Miss Ns. If 
Miss N receives a valuation shes unhappy with, she can make a complaint about that 
directly to Hastings and ultimately bring that complaint to this service. But thats not 
something Im able to consider as part of this decision, as no valuation has been provided.
I realise my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss N, as shes expressed that she 
wants a response to each point shes raised and wants considerably more compensation. 
But responding to each and every point doesnt reflect the informal nature of this service. 
And I can only properly consider matters up to the point of Hastings final response letter 
dated 4 April 2022. Its possible that for matters following this date, Hastings may offer 
Miss N more compensation. I think it should consider doing so, as its clear that following its 
final response, Miss N has suffered further distress. If Miss N is unhappy about the handling 
of her claim after 4 April 2022, shes entitled to raise a complaint to Hastings about those 
issues, and ultimately to refer that complaint to this service. 
Miss N has said that Hastings has itself told her that the compensation in this case is too 
low. But as Ive said, if Hastings wishes to make a further offer of compensation for its 
handling of the claim from 4 April 2022 onwards, then it is free to make that offer directly to 
Miss N following this decision.
Putting things right
Hastings Insurance Services Limited must pay Miss N £400 compensation in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience it has caused. This is in addition to the £50 it has already 
offered her, bringing the total amount of compensation in this case to £450.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman