DRN-2635431
The complaint
Mr Gs unhappy with the customer service provided by TSB Bank plc (TSB) since dealing 
with his previous complaint in 2018.
What happened
Around July 2018, Mr G complained to our service as hed lost access to his TSB account 
online. He also complained about the customer service hed received while TSB was looking 
into things and a letter he received that wasnt intended for him.
Our ombudsman directed TSB to pay Mr G £150 to make up for the problems it had with its 
IT systems. But she said she couldnt look into the complaint handling part of Mr Gs 
complaint as she said it didnt come within what our service can look into. She also said 
Mr G could only raise a complaint about a breach of his own data.
Following the final decision, Mr G got in touch with TSB again about the IT issues hed 
experienced; the letter hed received addressed to someone else; and the poor customer 
service he says he received since 2018. In February 2019 TSB issued a final response letter 
offering Mr G £250 for the service hed received and £50 to cover his expenses. Mr G was 
unhappy this letter contained several grammatical and spelling errors. And he says when he 
tried to contact TSB to discuss this on numerous occasions, the call handlers he spoke to 
were rude and unhelpful (hes highlighted one call handler in particular). He sent an email 
instead which was lost and eventually the number hed been given to call stopped working.
In December 2019, TSB said it had reviewed the compensation it had paid to its customers 
to ensure it was in line with updated guidance. As a result, Mr G was paid £50 which he was 
told by letter. Mr Gs unhappy this letter didnt explain why he was paid more. Hes also said 
whenever he tried contacting TSB, it took hours as the phone lines were often busy.
After asking us to look into things, our investigator thought the complaint should be 
dismissed as all of the issues Mr G raised stemmed from his original complaint that wed 
looked into. She said issues hes now unhappy with all relate to the service he received 
whilst following up his original complaint. And the ombudsman had said we cant look at 
complaint handling. Mr G didnt agree with our investigator as he said the issues arent 
connected and are about customer service. So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2021. I didnt look into Mr Gs 
complaint points about the account access, complaint handling, or the letter he received, as 
the previous ombudsman had already commented on them. But I thought he was entitled to 
bring a complaint about the general customer service hed received since that time. This 
included the service hed received over the phone, how the final response letter was written 
and the correspondence that seems to have been lost.
I didnt think Mr Gs complaint about these points should be upheld in summary because:
TSB hadnt disputed what Mr G had said about these things. And it had already paid him 
£350 as compensation for the service hed received overall since wed looked into things. 
I thought this was a significant amount of compensation in the circumstances. 
I was persuaded the amount TSB had paid Mr G made up for what he said had gone 
wrong. So I didnt think it needed to do anything more. 
Whilst I thought the letter Mr G received in December 2019 clearly explained why TSB 
was paying more redress, I thought it couldve been clearer which complaint it related to. 
But I didnt think not knowing this wouldve caused him significant distress. 
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. TSB 
didnt have any further comments. Mr G reiterated his complaint and said in summary:
I hadnt understood what had happened. He initially made three complaints in 2018 and 
TSB hadnt considered them all. Hes since raised two more complaints.
Hes always been unhappy with TSB because it didnt look into all of his complaints even 
after he highlighted this. 
He spent a great deal of time  hours over several years  trying to contact TSB; to get 
his account balance and funds; and to speak to the right team. This caused him illness 
and stress. And he doesnt think the compensation is enough to make up for this. 
I should look again at correspondence hes sent our service about his complaint. 
As TSB increased the amount of redress it paid for one of his complaints, he thinks it 
should do the same for all of his complaints  and pay him an additional £250 in total. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about everything Mr Gs said in response to my provisional 
decision. Ive also looked at everything weve been given by both parties again. But I dont 
think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mr Gs said he raised three complaints but only one had previously been looked into. TSB 
has given us details of all of the complaints Mr G raised in 2018 which matches what hes 
told us. And Im satisfied these were considered by an ombudsman previously. I appreciate 
Mr Gs said he spent several hours trying to contact TSB due to its IT issues and he thinks it 
chose not to look at his complaints. But I havent considered that under this complaint. 
Instead the only part of Mr Gs complaint Ive looked at is the general customer service hed 
received since the previous ombudsmans decision. 
TSBs paid Mr G £350 to make up for what he says has gone wrong. Whilst this might not 
seem significant to him, Ive thought about whether its fair compensation that reflects the 
impact TSBs actions have had on him. And considering what he says has gone wrong since 
we last looked into things, I dont think TSB needs to do anything more. Mr Gs said TSB should pay him an additional £50 for each of his complaints because its 
done this on one of his complaints previously. But I dont agree. The letter TSB says it sent 
in December 2019 said it had reviewed the redress paid to Mr G and decided to increase it 
in line with its new guidance. Thats a commercial decision for it to make. But it doesnt make 
me think how it resolved all of his complaints was inappropriate or unfair. And Im satisfied 
its already done enough in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman