DRN-4124382
The complaint
Mr Y brings this complaint in his capacity as Executor of the estate of his late mother, Mrs Y, 
who passed away in July 2021. Mr Y says that delay by Santander in providing the 
outstanding mortgage balance at the date of Mrs Ys death resulted in delay in him being 
able to apply for a Grant of Probate. 
To settle the complaint Mr Y is asking Santander to reimburse the estate with interest 
charged on the mortgage, and to pay him compensation for distress and inconvenience.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr Y or his late mother being identified. So for 
these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mrs Y had a lifetime mortgage, originally taken out with another business, but since taken 
over by Santander. After Mrs Y passed away in July 2021, Mr Y contacted Santander as he 
needed to know the amount outstanding at the date of death so he could add this figure to 
the forms he needed to submit to the Probate Registry. Grant of Probate was issued on 11 
February 2022, after which point Mr Y, as Executor, was in a position to begin marketing the 
property for sale.
Mr Ys complaint is that, despite asking Santander multiple times for the account balance, 
this wasnt provided to him until 22 September 2021. The letter gave the figure at the date of 
death, but confirmed that this wasnt a redemption figure, because interest continued to 
accrue. 
Mr Y says that the delay resulted in him having to chase up Santander, as he wasnt able to 
apply for Probate until he had the figure. After complaining to the bank, Santander 
acknowledged thered been some delay, and offered to reimburse interest of £656.70. 
Santander agreed to round up the figure to £750 to cover distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr Y.
Dissatisfied with this, Mr Y brought his complaint to our service. An investigator looked at 
what had happened but didnt think Santander needed to do anything further. Mr Y asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that interest on the mortgage was running 
at £6,000 per month, and so Santander still stood to make an entirely disproportionate gain 
relative to any accountable compensation paid to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I would like to express my condolences to Mr Y for the loss of his mother. I have 
no doubt this has been a distressing time for him. But what I have to decide is whether any 
delay by Santander has, as Mr Y claims, resulted in additional interest being charged to the 
mortgage.
This was a lifetime mortgage, which means that no monthly repayments are due; interest 
rolls up into the balance and the mortgage is repaid on the death of the borrower. Under the 
terms of the mortgage interest continues to accrue until the date the mortgage is repaid, and 
this generally happens when the secured property is sold. 
In the circumstances, whilst there was some delay by Santander in providing Mr Y with the 
balance outstanding at the date of death, Im not persuaded his has resulted in any 
additional interest being charged to the mortgage. I note that at the present time the property 
is showing as under offer on various online property portals, but its not clear whether or not 
the sale has completed. 
There might have been a delay in Mr Y applying for Probate solely as a result of Santander 
taking five weeks to provide him with the figure he needed. But I dont know whether there 
was other information that was needed before he could do this. Overall, Im not persuaded, 
however, that this delay has resulted in any additional interest accruing to the mortgage, 
because interest would accrue in any event until the property is sold.
I note that in its final response to the complaint Santander agreed to reimburse five days 
interest. This totals £656.70. I think this is fair in all the circumstances. Although Santander 
offered to pay this to Mr Y, if the mortgage has not yet been repaid, this amount must be 
deducted from the mortgage balance for the period 21-15 September 2021, and the account 
re-worked so that this refund of interest isnt compounded. If the mortgage has already been 
repaid, the refunded interest should be paid to the estate of the late Mrs Y.
Santander agreed to round up the amount to include £93.30 for distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr Y. However, I cannot making any award of distress and inconvenience to Mr Y, 
for the following reasons.
Under our rules, we can make awards of compensation for distress and inconvenience to an 
eligible complainant. Mrs Y would have been the eligible complainant  as she was the 
mortgage account holder. Mr Y, the Executor is representing her estate, but he has no 
entitlement to be compensated for any distress and inconvenience incurred by him 
personally whilst carrying out his duties as Executor. In addition, the estate of a deceased 
consumer cant experience feelings of distress or inconvenience.
So whilst I would expect Santander to honour the offer to pay Mr Y £93.30 for distress and 
inconvenience, I dont have any power to make any award of compensation to Mr Y in his 
capacity as Executor.
In the circumstances, Im not making any additional award of compensation, and so I dont 
require Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs Y to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman