DRN-3004530
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK PLC (Santander) blocked his late mothers account and 
treated him and his mother unfairly when it carried out its subsequent investigation.
Mr B brings this complaint on behalf of the estate of his late mother.  
What happened
In or around 1982, Mrs B opened a joint account with her husband. Sadly, he passed away 
in late 2018, at which point Mrs B became the sole account holder. Mr B had power of 
attorney for Mrs B and describes her as having been vulnerable and in poor physical health 
at the time.
On 21 March 2019, Mr B attempted to transfer £5,000 from his mothers account to his own 
account. The transaction was flagged by Santanders fraud monitoring system and the 
account was blocked while Santander carried out further checks.
Mr B called Santander to discuss matters but wasnt able to resolve the block on the phone. 
He was told hed need to attend a branch which he did the following day, with his mother. He 
explained the money was for funeral costs and his mother confirmed she had consented to 
the payment. Santander released the block and allowed the payment to proceed. While in 
branch, Mr B made a further transfer of £25,000 from Mrs Bs account to his own and raised 
a complaint with Santander.
On 29 March 2019, Mr B attempted to make a further transfer of £5,000 from his mothers 
account to his, but again the transaction was blocked. Mr B was unable to resolve the block 
on the phone so attended a branch again with his mother on 4 April 2019. When they 
attended branch, Mrs B confirmed she wanted to pay the money to her son. The account 
remained blocked, but later that day Santander called Mr B to confirm the block had been 
lifted from Mrs Bs account.
Mr B says his mother was interrogated for three hours when she attended branch, which 
caused her distress and made her physically unwell. He says Santander wasnt legally 
entitled to decline transactions he made, because he held power of attorney for his mother.
Santander issued three final response letters on 3, 10 and 18 April 2019. It said it was 
entitled to block Mrs Bs account, and that it had done so for security purposes. It said the 
branch visit was necessary as there were times it will need to discuss transactions with the 
account holder (Mrs B) in person, and that Mrs B was free to leave at any time if the meeting 
was causing her distress. But it offered to pay Mrs B £125 as a gesture of goodwill in 
recognition of the length of time Mrs B spent in branch.
Mr B didnt accept Santanders offer. He closed the account in May 2019 and brought his 
complaint to our service in September 2019. Sadly, Mrs B passed away in March 2020.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said Santander was entitled to block the 
account in the manner it did, and that it took reasonable steps in completing its investigation. 
She felt Santanders offer of £125 in compensation was fair in the circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree. He wasnt happy that our investigator hadnt specified why Santander 
blocked the account. And he thought Santander had broken the law by not adhering to the 
power of attorney. He asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of Mr B, I would need to be satisfied that Santander 
acted unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence, Im 
satisfied Santander acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mrs 
Bs account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that 
governed the relationship between Santander and Mrs B.
I appreciate Mr B is frustrated that Santander hasnt explained its reasons in full, and that he 
feels strongly about his complaint. But, under the terms and conditions of the account, 
Santander doesnt have to give a reason for doing so. So, I cant say it did anything wrong 
by not giving Mr B this information when he complained. And, having investigated 
Santanders rationale myself, Im satisfied it was entitled to block the account and complete 
the investigation in the manner it did. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest it treated Mr B, 
or his mother, unfairly.
Mr B says the power of attorney means that, if he makes a transaction, it shouldnt be 
deemed fraudulent. But that doesnt follow. Santander is obligated to block accounts and 
investigate transactions in certain circumstances. That obligation is not subject to its 
customers instructions, whether issued directly by the customer or by a party acting on their 
behalf, however that power is derived, including by way of a power of attorney.
So, Santander didnt act unlawfully when it declined the instructions Mr B gave. Rather, it 
was following its legal and regulatory obligations, so it was in fact complying with the law.
I also recognise that Mr B was upset at what he described as an interrogation of his mother 
in branch. But, having looked at all of the evidence provided by both parties, Im satisfied 
Santander was entitled to ask Mrs B to attend the branch in person, in order to complete its 
investigation. Santander said Mrs B was free to leave at any time, and I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest it acted unreasonably in its questioning of Mrs B. I appreciate Mr B says 
Mrs B was distressed by the meeting, but because Im satisfied Santander was entitled to 
ask Mrs B questions in person, I cant reasonably say it did anything wrong.
Santander has offered to pay Mr B £125 in recognition of the time Mrs B spent in branch, 
and Im satisfied that represents fair compensation for the trouble and upset Mrs B 
experienced as a result of the excess time she spent waiting in branch.
Finally, Ive also reviewed the timeline to see if Santander caused any unnecessary delays. 
On both occasions, Santander promptly requested and assessed the evidence it needed. 
And the blocks were both lifted within a matter of days. Having reviewed the evidence Santander has provided our service, Im satisfied that, in the circumstances of this particular 
case, it acted promptly in completing its review.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander must pay the estate of Mrs B £125.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Ombudsman