DRN-3651182
The complaint
Miss W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct have not safeguarded her 
personal details as she was a victim of fraud. Miss W wants First Direct to waive the early 
repayment charge for her mortgage so she can change mortgage provider.   
Miss W is represented in her complaint by Mr G, who has been involved in the complaint 
from the outset. I will mainly refer to Miss W, even where submissions have been made on 
her behalf.
What happened
On 7 August 2020, Miss W was contacted via telephone by an individual claiming to be from 
First Direct. The caller explained that there had been fraudulent activity on her First Direct 
account and informed her these could only be cancelled once she provided security details. 
Miss W was also directed to delete and reinstall her online banking app and she provided 
the secure key codes to the caller. All of this activity resulted in two payments of £600 
leaving her accounts with First Direct. 
Miss W reviewed her account with First Direct and noticed multiple transfers between a joint 
account she holds and her sole account. Mr G, who hold the joint account with Miss W, 
realised the account details had been compromised and contacted First Direct to report the 
fraud. 
Mr G was informed he would be called back, but as he had not been contacted, he rang First 
Direct on 9 August 2020. During this call Mr G was informed a final response had been 
issued. First Directs final response letter explained it was investigating the fraudulent 
transactions. On 12 August 2020 Miss W was informed that both transactions of £600 would 
be refunded to as she had been a victim of fraud. 
Miss W raised a further complaint with First Direct. Miss W was concerned about the 
following:
Miss W is a politically exposed person (PEP), and First Direct was aware of this. He 
says it carried out over-zealous checks when the account was opened, but assured 
Miss W that this was for her benefit to safeguard her account. Mr G says similar 
checks were not applied when the fraudulent activity occurred, and this couldve 
helped prevent the fraud. He says the fact Miss Ws details have been compromised 
means these checks were pointless and her details are not being stored securely. 
Miss W is unhappy Miss Ws details were accessible by the fraudsters and they were 
able to contact Miss W by masking their phone number as First Directs genuine 
phone number.
The multiple internal transfers between Miss Ws account and Miss W and Mr Gs 
joint account did not trigger any alerts for First Direct. Miss W says this activity was 
unusual and shouldve been detected and stopped by First Direct.
First Direct has provided a poor service when handling their queries and complaint. 
There were very long delays when they tried to speak to someone, and they were not 
contacted when they said they would be.
Miss W has closed her accounts with First Direct. However, she has not moved her 
mortgage account as it is subject to an early repayment charge. Miss W says First 
Direct should waive this because First Direct have said Miss Ws details are in the 
public domain and it says it cant change the mortgage account details.
First Direct investigated Miss Ws complaint and responded with the following:
It explained it would be investigating the call masking issue to ensure its system 
remains secure. 
First Direct assured Miss W that it has a robust and comprehensive fraud prevention 
system in place. It also assured her that her details were stored securely. 
First Direct explained internal transfers are treated different to transfers to a third 
party, and this is why the multiple transfers between accounts did not raise any 
alerts. 
First Direct said it would not waive the ERC on the mortgage as it was part of his 
mortgage contract.
First Direct accepted the customer service it provided couldve been better  there 
were long call wait times and some confusion regarding the initial complaint call. First 
Direct credited Miss Ws joint account with £100 in recognition of these shortcomings.
Miss W remained unhappy with First Direct and referred the complaint to our service. An 
investigator reviewed Miss Ws concerns and didnt think First Direct needed to do anymore. 
In particular he explained that he hadnt seen any evidence that First Direct hadnt 
safeguarded Miss Ws details and he was satisfied it had dealt with the fraudulent claim fairly 
by refunding the transactions. 
Miss W did not agree with the investigators review. Miss W explained her concerns about 
the fraud prevention systems in place, especially for individuals like Miss W who is classed 
as a PEP. Miss W says the early repayment charge is preventing her from taking the joint 
mortgage elsewhere and given the circumstances First Direct ought to waive these charges. 
As Miss W didnt agree with the investigators review, the case has been passed to me  an 
Ombudsman  for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in particular Miss Ws concerns about 
the fraud prevention systems in place. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service.Firstly, I am sorry to see Miss W was the victim of fraud. I appreciate this must have been a 
distressing experience, and Miss W is understandably worried about the security provided by 
her bank, First Direct. I have considered the arguments carefully; however, I wont be asking 
First Direct to do anything further. I know this will come as a disappointment, but I hope my 
decision helps Miss W understand why. 
Access to Miss Ws details
Miss W is clearly concerned about the details the fraudster was able to use when they 
contacted Miss W, as they were able to obtain her phone number and other details about 
her, such as the fact she held an account with First Direct and used online banking. 
I understand Miss W is a PEP and Miss W and she underwent due diligence checks when 
the account was opened. I cant say how Miss Ws details were accessed by the fraudster. I 
can only echo what First Direct and our investigator have already explained - the means 
used by fraudsters to access personal details is becoming increasingly sophisticated. I can 
also see in Miss Ws case that although they had some details about her, it was their ability 
to obtain further security details, in particular secure key codes from Miss W during the call 
which enabled them to access her account and set up new payees. 
First Direct has provided assurances that it has a vigorous system in place. It has also 
confirmed it is looking into the call masking aspect of the fraud carried out on Miss W. It also 
says it has taken on board Miss Ws comments about its current system and passed it on the 
relevant teams. I understand Miss W doesnt think First Direct is doing enough in terms of 
fraud prevention and he has concerns about the general anti-fraud provisions in place. It is 
not the role of this Service to scrutinise the security and fraud prevention framework in place 
at First Direct. I can see First Direct has refunded the transactions to Miss W and provided 
assurances about its systems. Its also taken steps to deal with Miss Ws queries about its 
systems. Beyond this, I wouldnt expect First Direct to take any further action. 
Internal transfers
The fraudsters who accessed Miss Ws account made multiple internal transfers between 
her sole account and Miss W and Mr Gs joint account. Mr G is alarmed these multiple 
transactions, all made in quick succession, didnt trigger any internal warnings.  
First Direct has explained that internal transfers between accounts arent treated in the same 
way as transfers to third parties or other banks. I understand Miss W thinks this is an 
inadequate system. It doesnt seem unreasonable for there to be a different set of triggers 
for internal transfers, especially given most fraudulent activity will involve transfers to third 
parties or other bank accounts. Looking at the statements it also seems transfers between 
these accounts was in keeping with the normal pattern of activity within them. Miss W hasnt 
claimed any financial loss due to these transfers, so I dont think First Direct needs to take 
any further steps here.
Early Repayment Charge
Miss W holds a joint mortgage account with First Direct. Mr G says he was informed by a 
member of staff during a call that First Direct had no control over their financial details being 
out in the public domain and this could include their mortgage. Mr G says he was told that as 
the fraudsters had their details, they would be able to take a second charge on their home or 
undertake further fraud. 
First Direct has provided a number of call recordings between Mr G and its members of staff. 
After listening to these calls, I appreciate Miss W has serious concerns about the integrity of First Directs security system and she feels he has no choice but to move their mortgage to 
another provider. However, I dont think it can be taken from these calls that Miss Ws details 
continue to be compromised. First Direct rightly explained that it has no control over 
information that is out in the public domain. I think during these calls the aim was to reassure 
Mr G that whilst information may be accessible, this does not necessarily mean the security 
systems in place arent adequate. It seems Mr G wants guarantees that Miss Ws 
information and accounts wont be compromised again, but this isnt something First Direct, 
or any other financial institution can provide. 
Miss W is free to move her mortgage, but I dont think First Direct should waive the early 
repayment charge. This charge formed part of the mortgage agreement with First Direct and 
I dont think it would be fair to waive it. Miss W can decide to pay the charge or wait until the 
fixed period has come to an end. 
Customer Service 
Mr G and Miss W have experienced long waits when trying to contact First Direct. I 
understand this wouldve been very frustrating, especially given the fraud they had 
experienced. I can also see Mr G says he was not contacted when he said he would be. 
First Direct has made a payment of £100 to Mr G and Miss W in recognition of these issues. 
I think this amount fairly reflects the inconvenience they have been caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman