DRN-4330789
The complaint
Mrs D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) irresponsibly gave her a loan
that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In December 2020, Mrs D applied for a loan with NatWest for the stated purpose of 
consolidating other debt. She was given a loan of £8,500 payable over 60 months with a 
monthly payment of £208.17.
Mrs D has complained to NatWest to say that the account shouldnt have been opened
for her because it wasnt affordable. She also said NatWest ought to have been aware of 
previous borrowing shed arranged.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
As Mrs D didnt agree her complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in
the round.
NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending.
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mrs Ds complaint is that NatWest made loan funds available to her that were unaffordable. 
NatWest has explained that it relied in part on information Mrs D provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They were entitled to rely on that information, but they 
also cross-checked it with information they already had about previous borrowing, being a 
credit card, overdraft and an earlier loan that that was taken out jointly. 
NatWest also said that they carried out a credit search in Mrs Ds name to assess her level 
of debt at that time and to understand how she had been managing that debt. NatWests 
records show that the main purpose of the loan was to consolidate existing debt. Mrs D 
supplied information about her income at the time, stating it to be £1,600 per month. With 
that information and using their own scoring metric, NatWest decided to agree to the loan. 
So, there was some assessment of affordability at the time of the sale and so I think the 
checks NatWest carried out were proportionate. I say that because NatWest appeared to 
have little reason to make further enquiries into Mrs Ds expenditure at that time, based on 
the information it was provided by Mrs D and that it had obtained for itself. In short, I dont 
think NatWest was put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending.
Mrs D has told us that she was studying at the time and sent us evidence of this. Her bank 
statements show evidence of her receiving a regular income, although I see that it varied 
from month to month and didnt necessarily reach £1,600. Mrs D has told us that because 
she was studying she was able to achieve a higher income outside of term time. I think 
though, based on the information NatWest had obtained, there would still have been 
sufficient to make the loan affordable. So even if NatWest had chosen to seek clarification of 
Mrs Ds income through payslips, for example, I dont think its likely they would have seen 
anything that would have made the loan seem unreasonable.
I can also see that Mrs D received occasional payments from friends and family members. 
Whilst generally speaking we wouldnt treat such payments as income, I dont think I can 
totally discount such payments when looking at Mrs Ds overall financial situation. But even if 
this had the effect of distorting her overall income picture to some extent, I have to consider 
this alongside what NatWests own credit check showed. This showed that Mrs D s credit 
history was clean at the time of the loan application. When I say this, I mean that Mrs Ds 
management of her existing credit showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults or 
bankruptcies. It seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending decision was 
made, Mrs D was able to manage her existing credit  this included her existing credit card 
previous loan and authorised overdraft. NatWest calculated that Mrs D potentially had 
around £700 in disposable income available each month, having allowed for her existing 
loan and credit card repayments and making an allowance of £600 for living costs. 
Ive also seen that she was making heavy use of her overdraft facility of around £2,000 but 
was not exceeding it. Whilst sustained use of an overdraft is always a concern, I dont 
consider that reliance on one is an automatic reason for saying that other credit ought not to 
be agreed. Ive also seen that Mrs D had made six separate applications for her overdraft to 
be increased since April 2018. 
Mrs D sent us her credit report. Ive seen that aside from the earlier loan shed taken with 
NatWest and her ongoing use of her overdraft, at the time she owed around £2,000 on her  
NatWest credit cards. She also owed around £600 on a separate loan. 
Ive also kept in mind that Mr s Ds primary purpose in taking this loan was said to be for the 
purpose of debt consolidation. It would have appeared to NatWest that Mrs D was taking 
steps to manage her existing debt by taking out a loan and quite possibly using it to secure 
more favourable terms to existing credit she had. That means its possible that Mrs D could 
have been saving money on interest she would have been paying elsewhere.
 
Mrs D says that her regular use of gambling sites was a factor in worsening her debt 
situation. NatWest says that wasnt something it became aware of when carrying out its 
checks before agreeing the application. And from what Ive seen of Mrs Ds credit history, 
including her credit report and bank statements, I cant say that theres enough to show or 
suggest that gambling was a significant issue for her at the time.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this complaint, Im not persuaded that 
based on the information provided and its checks, that NatWest ought to have been 
prompted to act differently than it did. That means, having considered all the submissions 
made in this case, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that the credit NatWest provided 
to Mrs D was unreasonable.I know that Mrs D will be disappointed with my decision, not least given that she has 
invested time and energy in pursuing her complaint. I have also taken on board what she 
has told us about how her concerns about her finances have affected her existing health 
situation as well as her mental health. I want Mrs D to know that I have carefully considered 
everything shes told us. But the position remains that I have not found sufficient evidence to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman