DRN-1554310
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that U K Insurance Limited hasn't paid a claim for stolen house and car keys 
under his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T has a travel insurance policy with UKI through his packaged bank account. In 2019, on 
his return from a holiday abroad, he was the victim of a theft at the airport. Cash, car keys, 
house keys and a house alarm fob were stolen from one of his bags.
He reported the theft to the police and made a claim on the travel insurance policy.
UKI paid the claim for the stolen cash. But it didn't pay the claim for the car keys, the house 
keys and the alarm fob. It said they were excluded under the policy. It said the house keys 
and the house alarm fob were excluded as they were classed as "household goods". It 
declined to cover the loss of the car keys because they were car parts and these were also 
excluded under the policy.
Mr T said the items should be covered as they were personal possessions stolen on holiday. 
He said the exclusions that UKI relied on were not clearly explained in the policy document.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr T's complaint. He said UKI should pay the claim for the 
house keys and the alarm fob as he didn't think these would generally be classed as 
household goods.
He didn't uphold Mr T's complaint about the car keys being excluded. He said it was 
reasonable for UKI to class the keys as a vehicle part or accessory. He said this was 
because you need the car keys to start a car and because the keys would come with the car. 
He also felt the exclusion was set out clearly in the policy document.
Mr T and UKI both disagreed so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm partially upholding this complaint, for the same reasons as our investigator. I'll explain 
why.
There's no dispute Mr T's possessions were stolen at the airport. The issue I have to 
consider is whether or not it was reasonable for UKI to rely on the exclusions in its policy 
when it refused to pay his claim for the stolen keys.
I can understand why Mr T feels so strongly about this issue. The terms and conditions of his 
insurance policy provide cover for lost, stolen or damaged personal possessions. The policy defines personal possessions as "your valuables and anything ... you carry when travelling". 
So he might have expected the sets of keys he was carrying to be covered. 
But as with most insurance policies, not everything is covered by the policy. The items not 
covered were set out in the policy document. UKI says Mr Ts claim for the stolen house 
keys and alarm fob, and the car keys, isnt covered because his policy has an exclusion 
which says the policy does not cover:
Pedal cycles, motor vehicles, caravans, trailers, camping equipment or parts or 
accessories of any of them, or household goods, musical instruments, antiques, 
pictures, dinghies, boats and/or ancillary equipment.
The house keys and alarm fob
UKI said the house keys weren't covered under the policy because they were part of the 
household. Its policy doesn't define household goods so our investigator looked at several 
definitions of household goods. He found that most tended to describe items used within a 
household, for example beds and wardrobes.
UKI told us it considered household goods to be "items held in a person's home". I agree 
with this definition, but I've reached a different view.
Whilst house keys may be held in the home, this is only when the policyholder is also there. 
House keys are an item designed to be specifically taken out of the home  in order to 
secure the property when away, and then to get back in. So, unlike something designed to 
stay in the home, I don't think this meets UKI's definition of a household good.
And even if I was satisfied the house keys could be defined as a household good, I dont 
think its fair to rely on that. That's because I don't believe UKI is clear what they mean by a 
household good, and I think a policyholder would reasonably think this was covered under  
"personal possessions".
I'm satisfied that the house keys and the alarm fob don't meet any general definition of 
household goods. And as the policy doesn't list house keys under any of the other 
exclusions, I don't think it's reasonable for UKI to exclude cover under the terms of the 
policy.
The car keys
UKI said the car keys were excluded as they considered them to be a part of the motor 
vehicle. And I think the exclusion clearly says motor vehicles or parts or accessories are not 
covered under this policy.
I've considered whether or not it was reasonable for UKI to define the car keys as a car part. 
I'd consider a car key to be an essential part of a car - without it the car won't start. And as 
our investigator said, the keys come with the car. So I'm satisfied that it was reasonable for 
UKI to consider that the keys are a car part.
I think the policy clearly excludes car parts. And because I'm satisfied that the keys are a 
part, I think it's reasonable for UKI not to pay the claim for the stolen car keys.
Mr T believes the policy term is ambiguous, and so his claim should be paid. I disagree. I 
think the policy clearly states car parts are not covered, and I've explained why I accept car 
keys are a car part - and likely to be covered under a motor insurance policy. Mr T says 
UKI has updated its policy wording to specifically exclude keys. He says this proves the wording in his policy was ambiguous. I can only consider the policy wording that was in 
place at the time of his claim, and I've explained why I believe UKI was reasonable to apply 
this exclusion.
Putting things right
I think it's fair and reasonable for UKI to pay Mr T's claim for the stolen house keys and 
alarm fob.
I think it was reasonable for it not to pay the claim for the stolen car keys, so I won't be 
asking it to do anything more in relation to this part of the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ts complaint.
U K Insurance Limited must pay Mr Ts claim for the stole house keys and alarm fob, subject 
to any applicable policy limits and/or excess. U K Insurance Limited should add interest to 
the claim payment at 8% simple per annum from the date of the loss until the date 
settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman