DRN-3971988
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S are unhappy with the service provided by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
following renewal of their home insurance policy. 
What happened
(Mrs S and Mr S are both parties to this complaint. Mrs S has primarily dealt with this service 
throughout her complaint. For ease of reference I have referred to Mrs S throughout this final 
decision). 
On 27 September 2022 Aviva wrote to Mrs S with details about renewing her home 
insurance policy with them. The renewal documents showed four previous claims:
Storm 
2021
Accidental loss/ Damage at Home
2021
Accidental loss/ Damage at Home
2021
Storm
2022
On 3 October Mrs S contacted Aviva and complained about the incorrect claim details 
recorded on her renewal documents. She explained there should only be three claims 
recorded. 
On 10 October a representative from Aviva emailed Mrs S saying I can see that there was 
not a storm claim in 2021 and this needs to be removed from your renewal document. I have 
asked the underwriters to explain why this is noted on your renewal documents and to have 
it removed. As soon as they respond to me, Ill be in touch to explain what has caused this 
error and that it has been resolved. 
On 14 October Aviva wrote to Mrs S in response to her complaint confirming one of the 
claims from 2021 had been incorrectly added, and Weve identified this issue as stemming 
from the financial records of the claim and weve rectified this. This did not have a 
detrimental effect on your policy or the premiumyour updated renewal documents have 
been sent to you. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this response, and brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
The investigator found that Aviva had recorded Mrs S claim information incorrectly, but this 
was corrected in good time. The investigator didnt ask Aviva to do anything more in 
settlement of Mrs S complaint. Mrs S rejected these findings saying that the crux of her 
complaint concerns repeated errors which caused me stress and inconvenience Aviva 
offered no compensation or apology for this.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has explained why we wont be able to investigate any issues with Aviva 
from 2021. In line with the rules that tell this service what it can and cant look at, I agree with 
the investigators explanation about the scope of this complaint, and wont be dealing with 
those issues in this final decision. I do acknowledge Mrs S complained to Aviva in 2021 
about problems with renewing her home insurance policy, and Mrs S feels strongly that 
shes had to complain about problems with renewal again in 2022. 
Mrs S has asked for confirmation that her complaint has been set up against the correct 
business. I can confirm that it has. 
Mrs S has explained that the crux of her complaint is that Aviva made repeated errors which 
caused [her] stress and inconvenience.. Aviva offered no compensation or apology for this. 
Mrs S has also confirmed that the excess being applied to her policy is not something she 
wants us to look into further. So Ive focused my final decision on the incorrect information 
recorded by Aviva in the renewal documents sent to her in September 2022.
Its not disputed that Aviva made an error. Mrs S has expressed disappointment with the 
general handling of her renewal, including lack of investigation of the claim details, and 
repeated errors. Ive considered Mrs S comments and the evidence she has provided in 
support of this. But I dont think Aviva need to do anything more to put things right. 
 
Mrs S was sent details about renewing her policy on 27 September 2022. I can appreciate 
the frustration caused to Mrs S when she reviewed these documents and found that Aviva 
had incorrectly included details of a claim that shouldnt have been on there. Mrs S called 
Aviva and spoke to a representative to explain what had happened. She also sent an email 
on 8 October expressing her disappointment with the renewal documents sent to her.
 
Ive considered what Mrs S has explained about the upset caused to her for the time that 
she was waiting for Aviva to tell her what had happened, and why information about her 
claims had been incorrectly recorded. On 10 October Mrs S received an email from Aviva 
which explained I can see that there was not a storm claim in 2021 and this needs to be 
removed from your renewal document. I have asked the underwriters to explain why this is 
noted on your renewal documents and to have it removed. As soon as they respond to me, 
Ill be in touch to explain what has caused this error and that it has been resolved.
Although I appreciate Mrs S was left wondering when steps will be taken to correctly update 
her claims information, I think this email provided reassurance that Aviva had recognised 
their error, and what needed to happen to correct the details recorded for Mrs S claims. 
It was still a restless time for Mrs S, as she was waiting for confirmation that her details had 
been corrected. This confirmation was provided a few days later on 14 October when Mrs S 
was assured Aviva had taken the necessary steps to update their details about her claims. 
She was told weve rectified this. This did not have a detrimental effect on your policy or the 
premium. 
Mrs S has referred to the impact on her because of Avivas error. And I dont doubt what she 
has explained about it being a very stressful time while waiting for Aviva to correct her claim 
information. Although its evident Aviva make an error, and it was one that caused Mrs S upset, I also think the impact of Avivas error was short-lived and limited to an administrative 
mistake on documents sent to Mrs S. 
There was a period where Mrs S had to wait for Aviva to confirm an error had been made, 
and that steps would be taken to put things right, but this happened fairly quickly once Aviva 
became aware of what had happened. Mrs S refers to repeated errors, but based on the 
scope of this complaint, and the steps taken by Aviva to correct Mrs S claims information, I 
dont think any additional award of compensation is needed to resolve Mrs S complaint. 
Although I appreciate what Mrs S has explained about the upset caused to her by Avivas 
handling of her renewal, I am satisfied the actions taken to correct Mrs S claims information 
were reasonable and in line with what wed expect. So I wont be asking Aviva to do anything 
more in settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything in settlement 
of this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman