DRN-1307195
The complaint
Mr A complains that Capital One (Europe) plc unfairly defaulted his card account, and he 
was sometimes unable to log on to his account.
What happened
Mr A had a Capital One credit card. He started to experience financial problems in about 
May/June 2018, and contacted Capital One. He stopped making payments at this point. He 
also contacted them again in October 2018, to advise health condition was impacting his 
ability to make his repayments. Capital One stopped applying interest to the card and offered 
Mr A a three-month payment break. Some late payment fees were refunded.
Throughout this period, Capital One was asking Mr A to provide income and expenditure 
details, so they could assess how best to help him manage his card account moving forward, 
although these werent provided. No further card payments were made, and arrears 
increased. Capital One advised the account may be defaulted if payment wasnt made, or a 
payment arrangement discussed and agreed. Mr A spoke to Capital One a number of times 
but didnt provide income and expenditure details during any of these calls. But Mr A did 
email his income and expenditure details to Capital One a few days before the default 
deadline, on two occasions. These emails werent picked up and his account was defaulted.
Mr A made a number of complaints to Capital One throughout this period. He complained 
about the balance on his card after his medical-related no payment plan expired. He also 
complained Capital One sent him statements, when hed specifically asked them not to. And 
he also complained about Capital Ones decision to default his account, when he says hed 
made attempts to contact them, including by email, to try and arrange a payment plan.
Capital One accepted they shouldnt have sent Mr A statements and paid £50 compensation 
to his account to reduce the balance. But Capital One didnt uphold the complaints about 
how theyd dealt with his account. The no-payment plan was temporary, allowing Mr A to 
provide income and expense details so a manageable way forward could be agreed. As far 
as Capital One was concerned, these werent supplied at that time, so normal recovery 
processes commenced. And some months later, after admitting theyd made a mistake by 
saying Mr A hadnt emailed these details, Capital One said the amount being offered - £5 per 
month  wasnt enough for a payment plan to be accepted in any event. And, there were 
many months of arrears on the account, so recording a default was the correct thing to do. 
Unhappy with this, Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator agreed with Capital 
One  theyd acted responsibly by providing a payment break when they did and were 
entitled to register a default given the account arrears. He also thought Capital Ones £50 
compensation for wrongly sending statements was fair, and Capital One hadnt done 
anything wrong by asking Mr A to use the email address he used when setting up the 
account as part of his log-on details. Mr A was unhappy with this response and asked an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has taken issue with two aspects of our investigators view  the default complaint and 
the email log-in complaint, so Ill only address these complaints in this decision. 
Ill begin with the email log-in complaint. As our investigator explained, Capital Ones system 
doesnt allow them to change user-names for online accounts. And as Mr A used an email 
address as part of his log-in details when he applied for the card, those details will still need 
to be used. This is Capital Ones process and isnt something I can ask them to change. So, 
I wont be asking them to do anything further on this point. 
Ill now turn to the default complaint. The FCA sets out certain obligations lenders must 
comply with when faced with a consumer experiencing financial problems. These include 
listening to a consumer to understand their circumstances, and then discussing how they 
can help the consumer. And to better understand a consumers situation, theyd be expected 
to ask about their income and expenditure. Once a consumers financial situation is clear, 
theres a range of measures a business can consider taking to help, including reducing or 
writing-off interest and charges, and allowing nominal or reduced repayments, or a payment 
holiday. 
These are the steps wed expect to see in cases where a consumer is in financial difficulty. 
But wed also expect a consumer to co-operate with a lender and provide any reasonable 
information that had been asked for. This includes providing income and expenditure details 
at an early opportunity  to allow the lender to best understand what they can do to help. 
I also need to mention The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance about when 
its appropriate for a lender to register a default. It says when a consumer is at least three 
months behind with their payments a default may be registered. And it would expect a 
default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. 
Looking at Mr As card statements he started experiencing financial problems around May 
2018  this was when he stopped making payments. He contacted Capital One and they 
asked him to provide his income and expenditure details. These werent provided, so Capital 
One didnt offer any additional support measures to Mr A. He continued being asked to make 
payments (none were made) and interest continued to be added to his card balance. 
Mr A then notified Capital One, in October 2018, he had a health condition that prevented 
him from making repayments. He was again asked to provide income and expenditure 
details, but this time Capital One immediately stopped interest being charged and said Mr A 
didnt need to make any repayments for three months. Three penalty charges incurred were 
also refunded. 
I think Capital One acted fairly and responsibly here, in line with the FCA guidelines, and our 
approach. They gave Mr A breathing space to provide information that would allow them to 
identify how best to help him moving forward. But Mr A, again, didnt provide the requested 
information during this three-month period.
Ive seen the various arrears letters Capital One sent to Mr A after his agreed nil payment 
plan expired. Its clear he was made aware defaulting the account was a possibility. He was 
again asked to provide income and expenditure details, so a payment plan could be 
arranged. These werent provided and a Default Notice was sent to Mr A in February 2019. 
Mr A called Capital One in early March 2019 to try and provide his income and expense details, but the calls became fraught and were ended. The information wasnt supplied. And 
Ive seen Mr A did then send two emails, containing very basic details, in the days before the 
default deadline  but these werent picked up, and the account was defaulted. 
So, Im satisfied Mr A did, albeit at the very last minute, take some steps to provide the 
information Capital One had requested. I think this should have been picked up, and Capital 
Ones failure to locate/acknowledge these emails prevented Mr A from being given an 
opportunity to properly discuss his offer. Capital One tell us they wouldnt have accepted £5 
per month in any event  however I think this offer was reasonable in this case, given the 
balance was in the region of £200 (and would take just over three years to clear at that rate).
However, that point is immaterial in terms of the default issue. Even had Mr As £5 per 
month offer been discussed and accepted, Capital One would still have been entitled to 
default the account. Mr A was in breach of his repayment terms and conditions - there had 
been no payments made for nearly 12 months by this time, and the ICO guidance is clear a 
lender would be expected to register a default by this time. This being the case, I dont think 
Capital One has done anything wrong here, and I wont be asking it to remove the default.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman