DRN-3874888
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has defaulted his loan account.
What happened
Mr K held a loan account with Lloyds. Due to financial problems caused by the covid 
pandemic, Mr K was granted a payment deferral (payment holiday). But by November 2020 
 after the covid payment holiday had ended, Mr Ks account fell into arrears as he was 
unable to open his business due to on-going pandemic restrictions.
Mr K was in contact with Lloyds in early 2021 to keep it informed about the impact the 
pandemic was having on his business. And Lloyds suspended interest on Mr Ks loan 
account to stop the debt from increasing and agreed a nil repayment plan. But by July 2021, 
as Mr K hadnt been able to make any payments to his account for over six months, Lloyds 
issued a default notice. 
Ultimately, Mr Ks business re-opened, and Lloyds agreed a reduced payment plan with     
him. And from mid-2022 Mr K was able to commence making his full contractual payments. 
But the loan arrears were still outstanding. Lloyds told Mr K that it intended to default his 
account in line with the default notice previously issued. Mr K complained to Lloyds about 
the action it intended to take, and the impact it would have on his credit file. He also said the 
content of the letters hed received were threatening. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said that it was required to provide information to 
the credit reference agencies (CRA) about how Mr Ks account had been managed. And that 
when arrears have accrued to a certain level it had a legal obligation to send the letters it 
had. It added that it would put the account on hold for a short time. But it said that, if the 
arrears werent cleared in full or an arrangement made for repayment of the arrears, the 
account would be defaulted. As no agreement was reached, Mr Ks account was defaulted in 
September 2022.
Unhappy with Lloyds response. Mr K referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into. But she thought Lloyds had acted in line with the temporary covid 
guidance and the relevant regulations and guidance in place for supporting customers 
experiencing longer-term financial problems. And she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr K didnt accept this outcome. He said hed paid as much as he could when he was 
impacted by the pandemic. As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to explain that I do understand Mr Ks strength of feeling about this matter. He 
has been impacted financially due to an unprecedented event beyond his control. But to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint Id have to be satisfied Lloyds had done something wrong or treated 
Mr K unfairly by not following industry guidance and regulations. And having read everything 
weve been provided with Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. Ill 
explain why. 
The investigator has already explained in detail the temporary guidelines that were 
introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) at the start of the pandemic. So, Ill only 
summarise them here. 
Lenders were required to offer consumers impacted financially by the pandemic up to a 
maximum of six months payment deferrals (payment holidays) (in two three months blocks) 
where the impact was likely to be short-term. During the covid payment holiday lenders were 
able to charge interest, but they werent allowed to record the missed payments with the 
CRA.
From what Ive seen Lloyds provided Mr K with some covid support as set out under the 
FCA temporary guidelines. And Ive seen that Lloyds wrote to Mr K to confirm that the 
payment holiday had been agreed and that the loan term would be extended to enable the 
interest accrued during this period to be repaid. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
adverse data was recorded on Mr Ks credit file during this period. So, I find Lloyds treated 
Mr K fairly at this time.  
But when the payment holiday expired Mr Ks problems were not considered to be short-
term. He was unable to re-open his business due to the on-going pandemic restrictions and 
an income and expenditure (I&E) breakdown showed he had an income deficit. The FCA 
said that if a consumers financial problems were considered to be long-term, lenders 
needed to consider further support in line with its normal obligations to treat consumers in 
financial difficulty positively and sympathetically. But it added that lenders were obliged to 
record such information with the CRA.  
Ive seen that after completion of the I&E Lloyds suspended interest on the outstanding loan 
balance and put in place a nil repayment plan that was later extended. I consider this to be 
fair and in line with a lenders obligations to treat a consumer in financial difficulty positively 
and sympathetically. And I dont consider Lloyds did anything wrong when this situation was 
reported on Mr Ks credit file.
But a lender isnt obliged to offer such support indefinitely. Guidance from the                      
Information Commissionaires Office (ICO) says that a lender can default an account when 
three to six months payments have been missed. Lloyds issued Mr K with a default notice                  
when he had not been able to make payments for over six months after the covid payment 
holiday had ended. So, I dont find that Lloyds did anything wrong when it issued Mr K with 
the default notice at this time.
Ive seen that Mr K was ultimately able to start to making reduced payments to his account in 
line with a reduced payment plan agreed with Lloyds. And, subsequently, he was able to 
recommence his full contractual payments. But by this time Mr Ks account was significantly 
in arrears - while Mr K was making payments, he wasnt reducing the arrears that had 
previously accumulated. 
I understand that Mr Ks main concern now is that he feels Lloyds hasnt supported him with 
repayment of the arrears and, as a result, Lloyds defaulted his account, and a record of the 
default has been recorded with the CRA. So, Ive thought carefully at what happened here.
I know Mr K feels he is being blamed for not being able to make the payments due to the 
loan. I want to stress that that isnt the case. As I mentioned above, Mr Ks situation was 
bought about due to an unprecedented event. But ultimately, I dont find Lloyds did anything wrong when it contacted Mr K about repaying the arrears as Im satisfied that the arrears 
were rightly owed by Mr K.  
I appreciate that Mr K may have felt the letters he received to be threatening. And I can 
understand this. But as mentioned above, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds 
to write to ask Mr K to make arrangements for repayment of the arrears and to explain the 
consequences of not doing so. And having looked at the content of some of the letters, I 
consider these to be standard letters I would expect to be sent to consumers in Mr Ks 
circumstances.  
Lloyds has provided its system notes  these are notes that Lloyds recorded when Mr K 
contacted when he was in receipt of these letters. And Ive seen from these notes that Mr K 
explained to Lloyds that he couldnt afford to pay more than what he was already paying. At 
this point I would expect Lloyds to consider what further support it may be able to offer to 
help Mr K. But I consider it to be normal that a lender would expect this process to start with 
the completion of an updated I&E breakdown so it can fully understand the current financial 
situation. 
In this respect, I find Lloyds notes show that it asked Mr K to complete a new I&E 
breakdown, but he didnt agree to it. So, a plan for repayment of the arrears wasnt put in 
place. Ive noted that Mr K says he told Lloyds he was selling his business. But Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Mr K provided Lloyds with any details of the sale. In any event, 
selling a business can be a drawn-out process and theres no guarantee of what funds would 
be left once the sale was completed. So, Im not persuaded that Lloyds was required to 
suspend defaulting Mr Ks account given the amount of the arrears, the number of missed 
payments and given a repayment plan wasnt in place. 
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr K and I acknowledge his strength of feeling  
particularly as a default will have a lasting impact on his credit file, Ive not found that Lloyds 
has done anything significantly wrong to the extent that it should remove the default from his 
credit file. 
Mr K couldnt make his contractual payments for an extended period and significant arrears 
accrued. And while accepting that he was impacted by the pandemic, kept Lloyds abreast of 
the situation and restarted payments when he could, that fact remains unchanged. Lloyds 
provided support available under the FCAs temporary covid guidance. And Ive found it 
treated him positively and sympathetically by suspending interest, agreeing a nil payment 
plan and later a reduced payment arrangement until Mr K was able to recommence full 
payments which is in line with the other regulations and guidance that apply in such cases. 
So, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more in respect of this complaint.
I understand from Mr Ks more recent correspondence that Lloyds has now passed Mr Ks 
debt to a third-party debt collection firm. Lloyds is entitled to do this, and I urge Mr K to work 
with that firm to reach agreement about repayment of the loan. The third-party firm will be 
responsible for keeping Mr Ks credit file updated in relation to this account. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman