DRN-2163989
The complaint
Ms D complains about the way Nationwide Building Society dealt with her change of 
borrower application. She asks that Nationwide refunds the £125 application fee and pays 
compensation. A family member represented Ms D in bringing this complaint.
What happened
Ms D contacted Nationwide as she wanted it to remove her ex-partner from the mortgage 
account. She says she was misinformed about the process. She says her request was 
declined multiple times, she was given different reasons and she wasnt told what she could 
do to improve her chances of it being agreed. She says she was asked for copies of 
documents shed already provided. 
Our investigator recommended that part of the complaint should be upheld. She said 
Nationwide had to assess whether Ms D could afford the mortgage if it was transferred into 
her sole name. It did this fairly, in accordance with its process. But it shouldnt have required 
Ms D to capitalise her overpayments before declining her application. And it could have 
explained parts of its process more clearly. Our investigator said this caused confusion and 
anxiety during what was already a difficult time for Ms D. She said Nationwide should pay 
compensation of £300.
Nationwide didnt agree, and so the complaint was passed to me. Ms D also said shed lost 
savings interest due to having to re-arrange her accounts so Nationwide could understand 
her finances.
I didnt agree with all of the investigators recommendations. So I sent a provisional decision 
to the parties to explain what I thought about the complaint and allow them to comment 
before I issued a final decision. In summary, I said Nationwide hadnt treated Ms D unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ms Ds representative described events and her concerns in detail. She provided detailed 
comments on my provisional decision and re-sent evidence which she says supports what 
shes said  and which I have re-read. Ive taken all this into account, but I hope Ms D will 
understand that my summary of what happened is just that  a summary. I can assure Ms D 
that Ive considered carefully what she and her representative have said. 
what happened?
Ms D separated from her partner in January 2019 and called Nationwide to ask for the 
account to be transferred into her sole name. She was told she didnt meet affordability 
criteria. She was told to pay the mortgage for six months and try again. If the request was 
declined again, shed be able to appeal.
Ms D contacted Nationwide at the end of July 2019. Her application was still deemed 
unaffordable, but as shed been paying the mortgage for more than three months it was 
referred to the underwriters.
Ms Ds application was accepted in principle the following day and she was asked to make 
an appointment. Ms D asked what this was for and Nationwide said it was to complete the 
application and review the documents shed sent in.
Ms D attended an appointment in early August 2019. Ms D says she was expecting the 
appointment to be to sign documents. Instead, she had to answer questions which she 
wasnt prepared for, and which shed already gone through on the phone. She found the 
appointment upsetting. 
Nationwide told Ms D she had to capitalise the overpayment reserve before the application 
could be approved, which Ms D agreed to do. Ms Ds change of borrower application was 
declined. Ms D re-applied in early 2020 and the application was approved.
did Nationwide assess Ms Ds change of borrower application fairly?
When there are two or more borrowers on a mortgage account they are jointly and severally 
liable for the repayments. Ms D says she was making payments, and her ex-partner didnt 
contribute. But while he was on the account he remained liable, and Nationwide could ask 
him for payments. Once the change of borrower process was completed, Ms D was solely 
responsible for repayments. This changed the risk for both Ms D and Nationwide. So its 
right that Nationwide carried out checks, to assess that the mortgage would be affordable for 
Ms D. And its also right that where her application didnt pass the affordability assessment, it 
still considered whether it would be in her best interests to go ahead anyway.
Nationwide assessed Ms Ds application as unaffordable in January 2019 and in July 2019. 
It referred her application to the underwriters in July 2019 as Ms D had been making 
payments for some months. After reviewing her circumstances in more detail, the 
underwriters declined the application.
Ms D says Nationwide could have re-assessed Ms Ds application after shed paid the 
mortgage for three months. She says making her wait six months caused an unnecessary 
delay. But Ms Ds request was declined in January 2019 and July 2019. It seems unlikely the 
outcome would have been different if her application had been re-assessed in between.
In its final response letter, Nationwide said Ms Ds application was declined as it felt she 
didnt have enough disposable income and it wanted to see better account conduct. So I 
think it did explain its decision. I dont think this is inconsistent with other things Ms D was 
told  for instance that Nationwide was concerned she was relying on payments from a 
family member. Nationwide didnt think it was in Ms Ds best interests to make her solely 
responsible for the mortgage when it was concerned she couldnt manage it solely from her 
own resources, and I think that was fair.
I dont think Nationwides decision to agree to the change of borrower application in early 
2020 means its previous decision to decline the application was wrong. If nothing else, Ms D 
had maintained payments for longer. And from what her representative has said shes 
changed how she uses her bank accounts.did Nationwide treat Ms D unfairly during the application process?
Ms Ds representative raised concerns about Nationwides service. 
Ms Ds representative says Nationwide asked Ms D for documents shed already provided. 
Nationwide says not all documents it asked for were provided and after the application was 
submitted it needed further information. The evidence here isnt clear enough for me to find 
that Nationwide asked for documents it had already received two or three times, as Ms Ds 
representative says. But if Ms D provided documents and Nationwide asked for them again, I 
can appreciate her frustration.
Nationwide has a template email to confirm appointments, which is intended for a different 
type of appointment. Its unfortunate that Nationwides system only allowed it to send an 
appointment confirmation which wasnt right for the appointment Ms D had. However, 
Nationwide spoke to Ms D on the phone and sent an email about the appointment. 
Ms Ds representative says Ms D wasnt told what to expect at the appointment. She says 
Nationwide went through information related to income and outgoings, discussed insurance 
and asked for a bank statement Ms D had already provided, which Ms D found stressful.
Ms Ds representative says Nationwide should have treated Ms D as a vulnerable person 
due to separating from her partner, whod previously dealt with their finances. And 
Nationwide should have known this as it noted on a call she seemed a little confused by this 
and clarified. But I dont think this was enough for Nationwide to realise Ms D was 
vulnerable. She hadnt said she was vulnerable or that she needed support to attend 
meetings. I dont think Nationwide could have known shed have difficulty attending a 
meeting alone, or in answering questions about her own financial situation.
I also dont think Nationwide would have known that Ms D only expected to sign documents 
at the meeting. It had told her the appointment was to complete the application, subject to 
review of the documents shed provided. 
Ms Ds representative says Nationwides adviser was unprofessional to suggest Ms D ask a 
family member to stop making payments to her and re-apply in three months. But this would 
have allowed Ms D to show that she could maintain mortgage payments without these 
payments. I dont think this means Nationwide was suggesting she manipulate her accounts. 
Nationwide said the overpayment reserve had to be capitalised for the change of borrower 
application to be approved. Ms Ds representative says its unfair to remove the safety net of 
the mortgage reserve, in case Ms D needed a payment holiday or to reduce payments. She 
said this should only happen once the change of borrower was approved. I can see it was 
upsetting that the application was then declined, but I dont think Ms D lost out. Nationwide 
made it clear the application might still be declined. And Ms D made a successful change of 
borrower application in early 2020, so would have had to capitalise the overpayment reserve 
by then anyway. Theres nothing to suggest she needed to use the overpayment reserve in 
the meantime  and doing so would likely have had an adverse effect on her change of 
borrower application.
Ms D had separated from her partner and wanted to remove him from the mortgage and 
property title. Having her change of borrower application declined more than once was no 
doubt upsetting. Overall though, I dont think the process followed by Nationwide was unfair 
or overly confusing. It followed its usual process, to ask for information and issue a decision 
in principle, and (if this is successful) then ask the customer to attend an appointment to 
complete the application.I dont think Nationwide made errors or acted unreasonably such that its fair to require it to 
pay compensation. Ms Ds application has now been accepted and I dont think its fair to 
require Nationwide to refund the £125 application fee.
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. While Ms Ds representative says Nationwide 
didnt respond properly when Ms D raised concerns this isnt something I can look into here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman