DRN-3353978
The complaint
This complaint is about an aborted mortgage application that Mrs B made using the 
services of mortgage intermediary ANB Law Financial Services Ltd. She says delays and 
a lack of communication caused the application to fail, leaving her distressed and out of 
pocket.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 18 February 2022, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on how this complaint should be determined. The following is an extract from 
the provisional decision.
Weve had no communication whatsoever from ANB; we only have Mrs Bs account of 
what happened. That is, briefly, that in the summer of 2020, she submitted a mortgage 
application using ANBs services, for which she paid a fee. The application was turned 
down by the lender, as I understand it, because of concerns about the amount of overtime 
Mrs B was working. A second application, for a lower amount, was proposed, but despite 
prompts from Mrs B, never progressed and Mrs B heard nothing more from ANB after 
November 2020. 
In May 2021, Mrs B complained; ANB acknowledged the complaint but no resolution was 
reached. Mrs B referred the matter to us in September 2021, and we asked ANB for its 
version of events. We received no reply, despite sending reminders. However in 
December 2021, ANB contacted Mrs B directly, offering to refund her fee.
Our investigator issued his view of the case in January 2022; he said that in addition to 
refunding the fee, ANB should pay Mrs B £200 compensation for her time, trouble and 
upset. Mrs B accepted but again, despite a reminder, weve heard nothing from ANB. As 
the matter remains unresolved, the case has been referred to me for review and a 
determination.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its unusual to be deciding a complaint solely on the basis of one partys testimony, but I 
cant say ANB hasnt been given ample opportunity to argue its case. 
Mortgage broking isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Things can go 
wrong sometimes, or simply take longer than expected. But what happened here is that, 
after the initial application hit problems, ANB simply stopped communicating with Mrs B. It 
left her hanging, with no idea of how her attempts to get a mortgage might be fulfilled. 
Offering to refund Mrs Bs fee, albeit only after a very long delay, was the very least ANB 
should have done. In addition, it should have recognised the negative impact its service 
failures will have had on Mrs B and agreed to compensate her for that too. 
It took the intervention of our investigator for the need for compensation to be 
acknowledged, and even then, ANB has remained entirely unresponsive. All thats been 
achieved by ANBs further inaction is that resolution of the complaint has been delayed 
unnecessarily, resulting in further stress for Mrs B. 
How a business deals with a complaint isnt generally something we can deal with; its not 
included in the list of regulated activities that our rules permit us to investigate. An exception 
is where were upholding the underlying complaint, in which case we can also consider how 
it was handled. My award reflects that. 
I gave the parties two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; Mrs B accepted it without 
further comment. Weve heard nothing from ANB, and Im satisfied it received the provisional 
decision and was therefore aware of the deadline for responding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ve considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, I 
wont be departing from my provisional conclusions. But I will make one further observation 
regarding ANBs complete failure to engage in this process.
If Mrs B accepts my final decision, it will be binding on ANB and enforceable in court if 
necessary. If ANB continues to ignore this matter, doesnt pay Mrs B the redress I have 
ordered and the matter then goes to court, Mrs B can reasonably ask the court not just to 
enforce my award, but also to order that ANB meet the costs of the court action.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint by ordering ANB Law Financial Services Ltd 
to:
refund Mrs Bs broker fee in full;
pay interest on the refunded fee at 8%* simple per annum from the date it was paid to 
the settlement date; and
pay Mrs B £300 compensation for her time, trouble and upset.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman