DRN-2457675
The complaint
Mr W complains Yorkshire Building Society (YBS), trading at the time as Chelsea Building 
Society, mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
YBS cant confirm when Mr W took out the mortgage or the PPI policy. Its first available 
records are from 1998. Mr W also cant remember when the sale took place, although he 
says it was in a meeting.
Mr W says he wouldve relied on the advice of the YBS agent who sold him the mortgage 
because he wasnt financially sophisticated. And he says hes come to see the PPI wasnt 
appropriate for him because he was in good health and had good employee benefits.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ws complaint didnt think, on the limited information she 
had available, that YBS had mis-sold the PPI or treated Mr W unfairly. So she didnt uphold 
Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W disagrees and so his complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide because YBS no longer has any of the paperwork 
from the time of the sale. This is unfortunate  but not altogether unusual, because 
businesses arent required to keep paperwork from such a long time ago.
What YBS has given us is a ledger from January 1998 showing Mr Ws outstanding 
mortgage balance and one monthly PPI premium of £6.41. The ledger also shows Mr Ws 
mortgage was redeemed on 6 January 1998. 
So YBS cant say when Mr Ws mortgage or the PPI policy was taken out. It also cant say 
how the PPI was sold (although Mr W says it was in a meeting), what the level of cover was 
or what the monthly benefit was.
Ive thought about whether its likely Mr W was given a fair choice about the PPI and had an 
opportunity to agree to it. This is particularly difficult when I dont know when the PPI was 
sold or how it was presented to Mr W. YBS has told us what its usual sales processes were 
before 1998  depending on whether the PPI was bought during a mortgage application, 
after a mortgage had completed or following a postal mailing. In all these situations, it says 
PPI wasnt compulsory and a customer wouldve been given a choice about whether or not 
to buy it. 
Mr W hasnt said much about the sale  other than that hed have relied on the agents 
advice  which, again, I dont think is surprising more than 20 years later.
But when I look at the limited information I have about the sale, theres not enough for me to 
say fairly and reasonably its likely YBS added the PPI to Mr Ws account without his 
knowledge or consent. So I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint on this point.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mr Ws complaint but 
I dont think there are. YBS says it wouldnt have recommended the PPI to Mr W. Mr W says 
it did. Because I have so little information about this sale, I will look at it as if the PPI was 
recommended to Mr W. This places a higher responsibility on YBS to take reasonable steps 
to make sure the PPI was suitable for him. And YBS also had to give Mr W enough clear 
information about the PPI so he could decide for himself whether or not he wanted to take it 
out. 
Ive looked at a YBS PPI policy from around 1996, as well as Mr Ws circumstances as hes 
described them to us in 1998. And I think the PPI probably was suitable for him. I say this 
because, based on these things:
Its likely Mr W wouldve been eligible for the PPI. And it doesnt look as if hed have 
been affected by any of the main things the PPI was unlikely to cover  like known 
health issues or unusual employment arrangements. So I dont think its likely hed 
have been stopped from claiming the full policy benefit if hed needed to.
Although Mr W says he got good sick pay from his work, the PPI wouldve paid a 
monthly benefit on top of this, quite possibly for up to 12 months for each successful 
accident or sickness claim he made. This is likely to have been longer than Mr Ws 
full sick pay wouldve lasted. And its likely it wouldve paid out in the same way if    
Mr W lost his job. 
Mr W hasnt said he had any savings or other insurance policies he couldve fallen 
back on if things had got difficult for him. A mortgage is a long-term and significant 
financial commitment, secured on your home  which is at risk if you fall behind on 
your mortgage repayments. So I think its likely the PPI gave Mr W useful protection 
in addition to his employee benefits.
I havent seen anything to make me think Mr W couldnt afford the PPI policy at the 
time  and, if he decided he no longer wanted it, he couldve cancelled it without 
penalty at any time.
As I dont know what information YBS gave Mr W about the policy at the time, its possible 
he wasnt given all the clear information he shouldve been given. But, as Ive said, I think its 
likely Mr W agreed to the cover and that it was suitable for him. So I think clearer information 
from YBS  if it had been needed  would only have confirmed this to him and wouldnt have 
stopped him from going ahead with the policy. 
So, looking at the limited information I have, I dont think its likely YBS mis-sold Mr W this 
PPI policy.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman